Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kendall and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's First Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Steve Golsby our CEO; and Pete Leemputte our CFO.
Before we get started let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K for 2010 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q current reports on Form 8-K and registration statements in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some time in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that we are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and keep our call to 45 minutes.
I will now turn to Steve -- the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
Well 2011 is off to a great start.
As you have likely read in our press release in the first quarter sales of $900 million grew by 18% or 15% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This is the highest quarterly growth recorded for many years and is testimony to our strategy.
Our growth was led by the strength of our business in emerging markets but also by improved performance in the U.S.
In addition strong gross margins the timing of demand-generation investments and the slightly lower tax rate versus 2010 each contributed to impressive financial results.
The fundamental drivers in our strategy and operations have not changed so I'll keep my comments brief and only address key highlights.
Sales for the Asia/Latin America markets grew at a rate of 27% or 22% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This segment now accounts for over 64% of sales up from 60% in the first quarter of 2010.
This exceptional performance was led by China and Hong Kong where sales grew well in excess of our segment average and where we continue to see gains in market share.
I recently took several secondary cities in China that we have entered by our systematic step change program.
As you may recall this step change program expands our direct presence into more cities with a full complement of advertising and promotional support and the addition of medical and trade sales staff.
At year end 2010 we had a direct presence in 193 cities and intend to expand into at least another 50 this year.
I traveled to both the western and eastern regions of China and was struck by the rapid development of world-class infrastructure and by the obvious strength of economic activity.
We visited several leading hospitals and visited many retail outlets including branches of international chains.
The category in which Mead Johnson competes is growing very strongly in all of these cities and our own brands are performing well ahead of expectations.
While the step change program expands our geographic footprint we are pleased that 80% of our growth continues to come from cities where we had a full presence in the prior year quarter.
Our brand equity science and product quality geographic footprint expansion and strong execution have all contributed to Mead Johnson achieving market share leadership in China/Hong Kong and we continue to believe that significant growth will be sustained for many years.
While China is our largest business outside the U.S.
I want to highlight that nearly all of our Latin America markets posted double-digit growth.
In the North America/Europe segment both reported and constant dollar sales grew by 5%.
Sales in the U.S.
increased at a rate above the segment average but were partially offset by lower sales in Europe distorted by our transition to a new distribution model.
We're very pleased with the strong U.S.
performance as it was largely driven by higher market share from product and packaging innovation as well as a benefit from a competitor's product recall last September.
We've seen encouraging support from consumers healthcare professionals and the retail trade for our patented newborn infant formula our Dual Prebiotic plan and the new packaging system comprised of a plastic tub with a refill value box.
Keep in mind that year-over-year share comparisons will get tougher in the second half of 2011 since our key competitor is back on shelf and we will lose the benefit of the parents who switched to Enfamil last fall as their babies age out of the category.
Additionally we continue to be pressured by the lower birth rate and reduced consumption in the U.S.
The most recent WIC data that shows that the number of infants participating in the program continues to fall.
On a full year basis our sales in the U.S.
are expected to grow slightly as higher market share offsets these downward pressures on the category.
For the full year we now anticipate constant dollar global sales growth of around 10% based on our strong performance in the quarter particularly in emerging markets with non-GAAP EPS in the range of $2.62 to $2.70 per share.
EPS in the remaining quarters of the year will be lower on average than the first quarter reflecting headwinds from higher dairy costs and increased operating expenses.
Advertising and promotion spending ran at a low level in the first quarter due to the phasing of key activities.
So much of the planned increase in operating expense is yet to come.
We will continue to invest in our strong momentum and look for additional growth opportunities in our priority markets.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete to provide you further highlights and will return to wrap up and take your questions.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Let me add a few more details on our Q1 financial results.
The 15% increase in constant dollar sales was comprised of 4% from pricing and volume gains of 11%.
As has been the case for many quarters all of the price growth came from our Asia/Latin America segment.
We took increased pricing in select markets during the quarter and also realized the carryover of inflationary increases taken in other markets during the second half of last year.
Volume gains of 15% in the Asia/Latin America segment were very broad-based across most markets while the 5% in North America/Europe was largely driven by the strength of our U.S.
business.
Note that about 2 points of our Asia/Latin America sales growth was due to snow-related delivery delays in China late last December.
That moved sales recognition from the fourth quarter to the current quarter.
For the company in total that was equivalent to just over one point of sales growth or about $0.02 per share in added earnings.
Keep in mind that sales comparisons are significantly easier in the first half of this year.
Over the first 6 months of 2010 we delivered constant dollar sales growth of 5% jumping to 13% in the second half.
As a result our full year sales growth estimate of around 10% for 2011 is below the 15% delivered in the first quarter.
Note that we currently expect about a 1/3-2/3 split between pricing and volume for the full year.
Turning to foreign exchange we expect currency fluctuation to add about 2 points to sales growth for the full year.
However we won't see any benefit to our bottom line.
In fact foreign exchange movement adversely affected our bottom line in the first quarter.
The dollar fell slightly or was flat against most currencies over the last 3 months.
In general a weakening dollar increased the sales and earnings.
One of the key exceptions is the euro where we have costs which exceed revenues.
Our business in Europe is relatively small and most of the capacity for our Dutch plant is exported to Asia.
As a result of this sharp position earnings drop when the dollar weakens against the euro and that was the scenario we faced in the first quarter as the dollar fell by 6%.
This factor coupled with the devaluation of the Vietnam dong resulted in a balance sheet remeasurement that reduced pretax earnings by over $8 million or $0.03 per share.
Note that the impact is evident in other expenses on our income statement.
Gross margins came in at 64.4% for the first quarter flat with the prior year and up 210 basis points from the fourth quarter.
We saw a temporary benefit in our cost of goods sold from lower dairy spot prices in the third quarter of last year.
As a reminder there is a natural lag of about 7 months before spot price fluctuations show up in our product costs reflecting pricing mechanisms in supply contracts in our normal inventory turns.
We are facing higher dairy prices in our cost of goods sold for the rest of the year and that will bring full year gross margins to give or take 63.3%.
That's a drop of about 20 basis points versus our prior guidance which anticipated average 2011 gross margins of 63.5%.
Over the last 3 months we have seen global dairy prices continue to increase.
They have stabilized a bit in the last month but we will continue to watch commodity costs closely and take our own pricing actions where appropriate.
Operating expenses were 37.9% from the first quarter below the 39.5% anticipated for the full year largely from timing of advertising and promotion spend.
A&amp;P can vary significantly quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of product launches or promotional campaigns.
A&amp;P stood at 12.4% in Q1 160 basis points below the 14% expected for the full year.
As Steve mentioned we will continue to maintain A&amp;P and sales force spending as a percentage of sales in line with our higher sales growth.
We use this as an opportunity to help fuel additional demand generation investments.
This factor coupled with the FX balance sheet remeasurement spend mentioned earlier will keep full year operating expenses at our January projection of 39.5%.
Our effective tax rate or ETR came in at 29.4% down from 31% in the first quarter of 2010.
Please note that we previously expected the full year rate to range from 28% to 29%.
We now believe that we'll be at or slightly above 29% as our earnings mix has shifted toward markets that carry higher ETRs.
Compared to the midpoint of our prior range the increased tax rate reduces 2011 earnings by $0.03 per share.
Pulling all this information together we now expect 2011 earnings to range from $2.62 to $2.70 per share up from the $2.55 to $2.65 anticipated 3 months ago.
Stronger sales growth in emerging markets is the key driver partially offset by the impact of higher dairy costs foreign exchange higher investments for sustainable growth and a slight increase in our effective tax rate.
Finally our cash balance stood at $709 million up from $596 million in December.
That strong performance given that we repurchased 400 000 shares in the quarter consuming $24 million of cash.
Although the timing and amount of future share repurchases may vary our program is designed to help reduce the dilutive impact of employee equity awards.
When coupled with the 16% increase in our quarterly dividends we are returning a meaningful portion of our free cash flow to shareholders.
For the full year capital spending and depreciation and amortization expense are expected to be about $125 million and $75 million respectively.
With that let me now turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
We have marked our second year anniversary of being an independent company and as you can read in our annual report we are growing stronger every day.
I'm happy to announce that we will host an Investor Day on October 13 in Chicago.
Kathy will be sending out further details in the near future.
In closing I would like to thank and acknowledge the efforts of all of our Mead Johnson colleagues around the globe who continue to deliver strong performance.
We will now be pleased to take your questions.
To give everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask just one question and if necessary a follow-up and then we will pass it along to the next person in the queue.
Operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I actually wanted to ask a question about emerging markets.
Have you seen any cases or do you have any concern about the potential for price controls to perhaps be implemented in any of the markets in which you compete? Thank you Ed.
There are a couple of markets in Asia namely Thailand and Vietnam where some price control exists.
I think that clearly your question is likely focused on China and what may happen there.
We -- the Chinese government currently is very much focused on quality and food safety but are also aware of the risk of food inflation and there are some food categories that they are putting under control or under watch.
That does not at this point in time include infant formula.
We're not immune to these sensitivities and we have to be watchful as we consider taking further price increases.
But there have never been any price controls that have materialized in China and we don't expect that to be the case in the near future.
LLC</strong> And then just one quick follow up I guess for Pete.
You mentioned that the full year operating expense guidance is still at 39.5% of sales and I understand that you're spending on A&amp;P but I was wondering why we might not see a little bit more leverage on the MS&amp;A line? Sure Ed.
The one other point there as I mentioned we had about $8 million in foreign exchange losses the balance sheet remeasurement related with the Vietnamese dong and more importantly with the weakening of the dollar against the euro and that's the other key factor driving there.
And I think too given the strong performance of the company it's not just A&amp;P dollars but also sales force investments and maybe some other marketing investments that we intend to make.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
I wanted to follow up here on the Asian and Latin American segment in the volume comments.
Could you maybe spend a little bit more time to understand to help us understand the 15% volume growth number? I think you called out 2 points of a shipment differential so then that would put perhaps the ongoing run rate or maybe an honest organic rate if I could say it like that at 13%.
Still when I look back over the course of '09 and '10 quarterly data we just don't see anything this strong and I'm just trying to understand whether this is a sustainable issue whether this is onetime in nature? Steve how can you dimensionalize this for us? I'll come back to that in a second Dave.
I'll just let Pete explain the numbers and then I'll give a comment.
Sure.
That 15% that you reference for volume for Asia/Latin America is what we reported.
We had about 2 points of it.
That was due to the fact that there was some heavy snow particularly in Eastern and Northern China in late December and we had a lot of goods that had been shipped but had not been yet received and we didn't recognize the sales on that until the first quarter.
So that's 2 points of it.
In addition David there was one other factor I would point out.
In Venezuela you may recall on January 1 2010 the government devalued the currency significantly and put in some new controls.
And as result of that dislocation plus the fact that we were transitioning product registrations down there from BMS to Mead Johnson our sales were abnormally light in the first quarter of last year.
That added about another full point to sales growth in the quarter.
So absent those it's probably closer to 12.
The other thing I would point out is keep in mind if you looked at the quarterly sales from 2010 we did see that very significant increase and this was true not only in the United States but also -- in North America/Europe but also in Asia/Latin America.
So the comparisons are just a bit easier this quarter than I think they have been.
That doesn't belie the fact that we had very very good performance in the year in terms of volume growth in Asia/Latin America but it's just an easier comparison as well.
And David I would just add a couple of things.
We're clearly not growing market share in every country in which we operate.
This is a highly competitive industry and we face challenges just like any other business.
But over our top 11 country aggregate we've outpaced the category growth every quarter since November 2008.
A lot of the volume growth clearly comes from China and Hong Kong and it would be difficult to say that we're going to continue to see category growth and market share gains of this magnitude consistently although that will clearly be our aim.
But we are also seeing very strong volume growth right across Latin America and in a number of other Asian markets.
So we're very confident in the revised guidelines the growth guidelines that we issued to you this morning.
Very clear.
Thanks for all the color on the numerics and the qualitative commentary.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry Bivens with JPMorgan.
Just two quick questions on China.
The effects if any of the Japanese nuclear accident has that helped your consumption in China? And the other thing Steve there has been some talk that the Chinese government might allow a one-time upward revaluation of the RMB [renminbi].
I'd like to get your take on that if I might.
I'll take the first one Terry.
Firstly let me add to comments that many CEOs have made and send out sympathies to all those affected by the disaster in Japan.
We do not have operations there and don't intend to have.
We are seeing some small benefit from this disaster.
As a consequence of the fact that the Japanese manufacturers of infant formula and growing-up milks had a market position in Hong Kong and in parts of China.
And clearly they are facing some supply interruptions and facing some erosion of consumer confidence and we would expect to pick up our fair share.
But it is not a significant factor either in our results or in our guidance.
And Pete I'll pass the revaluation comment over to you.
There is some buzz out there that that may indeed happen.
It's just buzz as far as I'm concerned at this point in time and we have seen roughly a 3.5% 4% strengthening of the RMB over the last year if you look at the first quarter 2011 versus 2010.
And one thing I would point out is if it indeed happens it would be beneficial to our bottom line in terms of our dollar reported financials.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Steve I just wanted to ask you your commentary two things struck me one you just seem to have a very bullish trip through China; and then two you prefaced the 50 cities this year with at least.
So I'm just wondering if on the margin there's any sort of acceleration in your plans to expand in China? We haven't made a decision at this point to go beyond the 50 cities this year.
But with the momentum that we've reported today we'll clearly be looking for additional opportunities to invest and we'll certainly be talking to our general management team in China to see whether they feel that they would be able to execute flawlessly in a greater number of cities.
Well as you know they take a very disciplined approach to that and we will not expand that number unless we're absolutely confident of our ability to be successful in all the cities in which we operate.
You're right I am -- I was struck in my visit.
I spent many years living in Asia I've been to China more than 50 times but I haven't been to a number of these so-called secondary cities.
And I was absolutely struck not only by their size by the quality of infrastructure by the obvious economic activity but also by the rapid momentum of the international brands in our category and most particularly of course our own brands.
Not surprisingly parents in those cities aspire just as parents in the bigger cities they aspire for their children to be successful in life and nutrition plays a critical role in that.
And they are rapidly entering the middle class and therefore are able to afford our product for the several years.
So I was reassured that our strategy was right and I was also reassured that our confidence in sustainable growth was well-placed.
So maybe just as a follow-up is it fair to say that there's some opportunity to go modestly beyond the 50 cities this year but you might be thinking about accelerating penetration in the out years and you might need to think about whether you up the size of the overall investment and maybe staffing and so forth? Or am I...
I thank that's fair Vincent yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Can I just ask it's very hard to get data out of China on industry growth rates and you said I think you said you were exceeding the industry growth rate.
Can you talk a little bit about how quickly the category is growing in China and how you're growing in comparison? And then I guess the kind of follow-up would be we'd have some more milk scares in China recently and certainly sort of broad-based food safety issues with the noodles in Southern China and the problems in their pork industry.
So I just think the consumer there is sort of more -- even more focused on food safety.
So can you just talk about your positioning as a multinational and importing product and how you expect that to play over time? Do you expect multinationals to continue to outpace the rest of the category? The first part of the question Diane Nielsen reported that the category grew by around 10% in the first quarter and we told you that our business grew above the rate of the segment.
So clearly that validates the market share growth that I've referred to.
Not everybody is growing at that pace.
Secondly you know the government is as you rightly say concerned to ensure quality and food safety in this category above all others.
And there have been reports of a number of small local dairies losing their licenses as a consequence of the audits from the quality inspections that are taking place.
I'm pleased to report that we have passed all of those quality inspections with flying colors and are investing at unprecedented levels globally including in China to further ensure the very very high standards of quality and food safety that we operate to.
And as you know we do not use locally-sourced dairy raw materials in our products in China and do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Just a couple questions.
One is you mentioned that advertising is probably going to go up as the year goes on.
We had assumed 14.5% of sales as kind of a normal run rate but I'm starting to see them a little bit high.
Can you give us an order of magnitude of what to expect for the year for advertising? And then second you mentioned that market share gains you don't want to bet on the fact that they keep going up.
But can you talk a little bit more about what have you been doing in these markets to drive those gains? What would make those gains kind of sustainable? Is it investment in direct to professional selling or is it advertising? Or I think -- and is that the guidance that those gains are sustainable or not? Sure Rob.
With regard to the question the first question on the A&amp;P spending levels for the year we continue to expect it's going to run 14% for the full year.
So we came in at 12.4% in the first quarter we'll be running at a rate above that then in the next 3 quarters on average in order to hit that full year rate.
I'll try and keep my answer brief because you could talk about this for a long period but what we call the influence model of the 3-pillar demand creation strategy of direct-to-consumer through the healthcare professional and in partnership with retailers and pharmacies.
That model is dynamic and it varies from market-to-market that influence is not consistent everywhere.
And so we're constantly changing and improving the model in every market in which we do business.
But there's no one headline that I can give you.
In China where we're recording the highest market share gains it's a highly competitive category.
We certainly will seek to try and maintain this type of momentum but we can't guarantee it.
What we are focused on is excellence and execution.
Our proposition resonates with parents.
Our advertising is very compelling.
We're investing at competitive levels.
We have very good partnerships with retailers and it's really that blocking and tackling every day that is behind our strong performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Just a question on the Asia/Latin America segment.
If I just did some -- I did some back-of-the-envelope math and it seems to me if you exclude foreign exchange you had about $100 million of incremental revenue in that segment in the quarter and about 1/2 of that would have come from China.
Is that in terms of magnitude in terms of its contribution to the growth is that about right? It was obviously a very big driver of it.
I don't think we want to get into any more specifics than that but order of magnitude you're not out of line.
Okay and then just connected to that could you give us some color about the rest of the markets in the segments? And maybe directionally which ones are improving and which ones aren't? And just trying to get an idea once we get outside of China what else is happening within that segment? Sure.
We continue to see very very strong growth throughout Latin America.
Mexico delivered double-digit growth which is quite impressive when you consider the fact that half of the business there is milk modifiers our Choco Milk and Cal-C-Tose brands which that segment is not growing for any practical purposes.
So we're growing very very heavily with our Enfa brand there not only infant formula but also the growing-up milks.
The rest of Latin America performed superbly.
Great growth in Brazil.
When we look at Central America Peru Columbia Ecuador very very very strong double-digit growth.
And then in Asia I would also say markets of particular note in terms of growth were Malaysia and Singapore.
Singapore's a bit small but very very strong performance there.
Probably the markets where there's --  they're a bit more challenged I would say tend to be the ones that and this is not new information but more price-sensitive markets.
So the Philippines in particular we sell a premium brand in Enfa.
We have a mid-tier brand in Lactum.
But really the growth that's occurring in that market is occurring all even outside the categories where we compete so full cream milk or filled milk which are less nutritious substitutes for the products that we would sell.
That segment of the market which is lower-priced than where we compete had tended to grow quite rapidly at the expense of declines for where we do compete.
So a little tougher comparisons for the Philippines there although we are picking up share for -- particularly for our Enfa brand in that market.
And then just India just how much progress are you making there? Well the percentage growth is fantastic.
It's still off a relatively low base.
But we're pleased with the progress that we're making there.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to focus on the U.S.
segment.
We've seen continued decline in fertility rates in the U.S.
and fertility rates are declining at the fastest pace in the last 30 years.
Now given that and given pretty benign competitive environment over the last few quarters can you give us an outlook on category volumes here? And also what gives you the confidence for positive growth in the U.S.
business? Well let me try and answer that Amit.
We are not confident in the volume growth in the category.
What we've seen over the last couple of years -- I know you've been following us for a relatively short period of time.
What we've seen is that a significant reduction in the birth rate in the United States over a 2- 3-year period and a reduction in consumption driven by reform in the WIC Program and by the weak economic conditions.
What we're reporting today and have been talking about for a couple of quarters now is our market share growth within that weaker market driven primarily by our innovations and by our improved demand creation activities but also benefiting from the competitive recall back last September.
So what we've referenced this morning is continued pessimism if you like about the category.
We do not expect births to start to rise again at least until 2012 potentially even later.
But we are determined to continue to maintain a strong market share in the category so that when the birth rate does recover as it will we are in the strongest possible position.
We're largely dependent on competing within a lower-volume category and we often get a question on price.
So I will make just one comment on price.
We did announce to the retail channel yesterday that we will be taking a price increase in the United States on our core routine products later this year.
We have not taken a price increase for several years and clearly we've introduced a number of product improvements since then and seen commodity costs continue to rise.
But through our advertising and promotional programs we will make sure that we're continuing to drive demand and that we are competitive.
I would just add to that the price increase would not be until later in the year.
So you're not going to see that big a financial impact with regard to the numbers this year.
And if I may ask what is the degree of the price increase that you're going to take? 4% Amit.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Steve you talked about the potential for improving mix in Brazil moving from growing up milks to infant formula.
Is there any progress to report there and how specifically did Brazil perform? Brazil continues to perform very well and we have very high expectations for the market and for our brands within it.
I'd like to correct your statement and I hope I didn't misinform what we're expecting and indeed are seeing is a conversion from standard milk or full cream milk powder.
We're seeing a conversion from that to infant formula and more nutritious growing-up milk as parents have more access to money more access to nutritional information through their healthcare professional and we expect that to continue.
More women going into the workforce.
All of these trends these demographic trends will drive the growth of the category and we're investing to make sure we grow share.
Excluding all the sort of inventory adjustments and foreign exchange adjustments and so on we're growing consistently in double digits in Brazil and are confident in continuing to do so.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess with the growth that you're seeing is there any I guess bias now to likely spend the extra capital a couple of hundred million dollars on your own dryers? It just seems that with that kind of volume growth and the share gains that that's a more likely event? It's something we continue to look at.
As we talked about in February at the CAGNY [Consumer Analyst Group of New York] Meeting for those that may have not listened in we talked about the fact we are considering building a new spray dryer in Asia.
We're also looking and continue to look at third-party manufacturing and that's a decision that we would probably make at this point in time in the fourth quarter of the year.
Obviously good growth this quarter helps us in our decision to build but I would say one quarter is not going to necessarily influence the decision favorably or unfavorably at this point and we'll let you know as soon as we hear.
And I guess for just as a follow-up on that for modeling purposes for this year and I don't know if you care to comment on next year but CapEx and D&amp;A kind of where is the bias? Would you say [Audio Gap] that in 2012? I think if you look at our spending for this year the $125 million I thank that's a pretty good estimate at this point in time for the full year.
You could go up $5 million to $10 million or down too depending on the specific projects we do.
If we do build the spray dryer the total cost would for new infrastructure to accompany that sprayer dryer in whatever market we choose to do that but if we build it would cost roughly $300 million.
And the spend for that would probably take place over a 2- maybe 2.5-year period that sort of timeframe.
So that would be added on top of the base that we have.
Would also point out though too that this year we have spending and it's still not insignificant although down from 2010 for our SAP implementation which the base I would say spend for the company is probably closer to $100 million at this point in time.
So that new spray dryer would be on top of that.
Your last question is a follow-up from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
I wanted to direct my question to Steve on the United States trends.
When we're looking at Nielsen data I'm not sure how to make sense out of this.
We see pricing for Enfamil up over 7% yet in the quarter you report no pricing within that North American/European segment.
And then furthermore when I look at the competitors particularly Nestlé we see that they're kind of holding prices flat and they seem to be getting a big benefit from the Similac recall much larger than your benefit.
So I'm trying to triangulate here what's going on.
It feels like the retailers are perhaps taking advantage of you a little bit and it pushes their pricing up to get better profitability and the volume benefits by and large are going to Nestlé from Abbott's problems.
Do I have it correct or is there something else happening? I don't think you have it correct but I can understand why it's sort of difficult to understand from the Nielsen data.
And I'll ask Pete to try and attempt briefly to address that but I suspect in your follow-up calls you'll need to get down into the weeds on it because it is quite complicated.
Yes I would say the way Nielsen tends to go through and calculate what's pricing and what's volume from a value if you're looking at the dollars they go through and do a calculation on what is the reconstituted volume of the product and quite frankly their methodology is flawed.
They will treat 8 liquid ounces of equivalent with 8 powder ounces.
And so that is not -- we have not raised pricing at all.
Part of what goes through there as well too is we do have a favorable product mix coming in the U.S.
And that while our routine business is doing exceptionally strong we also are seeing very good growth with our solutions products essentially it's the partially hydrolyzed formula which carries a higher price point associated with it too.
So that is part of what they have in their numbers.
And definitely with regard to the market share data we have Nielsen cover it a different way for us.
We do believe that Nestle got its fair share of market share after the Abbott recall they didn't get any more than that and I think some of the latest data that we've seen would suggest that maybe that's dropped off just a tad.
But they have not disproportionately benefited from it.
Hopefully that helps you.
Then there was also of course David WIC impacts in there.
And you may already know that among the contracts that came up this year New York Mead Johnson retained the milk contract and was awarded the soy contract.
And effective October this year we've just been informed that Mead Johnson has been awarded the contract for their -- what's called the Neato Consortium [ph] in the Northeast and Atlantic states which is previously held by Nestlé.
So with that I will close the call and once again thank you for your interest in the company and we look forward to talking with you further.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tahisia and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's Second Quarter Conference Call.
On the call are Steve Golsby our CEO; and Pete Leemputte our CFO.
While I'm in Chicago both Steve and Pete will speak to you from Asia.
Before we get started let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q current reports on Form 8-K and registration statements in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that we are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and keep our call to 45 minutes.
I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
At a recent Investor Meeting I was asked what factors I consider to be important in leading a successful global company.
I shared a number of thoughts including the need to ensure that we as the executive leaders understand the dynamic nature of the business avoid the risk of isolation from the marketplace and travel regularly to review our businesses and meet with the members of our worldwide team.
Pete and I are here with the entire management committee to review our operations and the execution of our strategies across Asia our largest and fastest growing region and where 6 of our top 10 markets are located.
As you likely read in our press release Mead Johnson delivered exceptional sales growth of 22% on a reported basis in the second quarter or 18% measured in constant dollars with strong performance in both operating segments.
Non-GAAP earnings was $0.72 per share up 14% from the prior year came from both strong sales growth and robust gross margins offset in part by growing investments in demand generation operating costs to support our growth and a higher effective tax rate that Pete will address shortly.
Turning to our 2 operating segments I'll keep my comments brief and focus on key performance highlights.
Sales for the Asia/Latin America segment grew by 30% on a reported basis and 24% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
China and Hong Kong continue to lead sales growth in this segment.
The majority of our growth in China came from market share gains and in our established cities.
While we project strong growth continuing in China we do not expect to continue to gain share at this rate indefinitely given the competitive nature of the market.
Our emerging market growth story isn't based on China/Hong Kong alone nor indeed solely on our strong Asia performance.
In Latin America nearly all our markets are growing at strong double-digit rates.
I recently returned from a visit to Peru and Columbia where Mead Johnson holds the #1 and #2 positions respectively.
And where we are confident of being able to deliver sustainable growth driven by favorable economic and demographic trends and the proven strength of our business model and strategies.
In the North America/Europe segment second quarter sales growth was 8% on a constant dollar basis up from 5% in the first quarter.
There are 2 key factors behind this increase that are important to emphasize.
First the second quarter of 2010 was the lowest quarterly sales level of the year for this segment and reflects the period before the launch of key product innovations in the U.S.
Second in the second quarter of this year we saw a point or 2 of sales growth from pipeline sales as more U.S retail outlets adopted our newborn product and the value box refill system.
While we are greatly encouraged by the improvement in our year-over-year U.S.
market share we remain concerned by the continuing decline in the market.
We have not yet seen any convincing signs that the U.S.
birthrate has bottomed out.
Indeed since our last conference call the Center for Disease Control issued provisional data for the second half of 2010 that showed a further birthrate decline of over 2% versus 2009.
While that's a lower rate of decline then the 4% drop in the first half of 2010 the most recent information we have through April comes from the number of infants enrolled in the WIC program.
And that shows a continued drop in participation.
A sign that overall birth in 2011 may be lower by a further 2%.
So the bottom line is that we expect tough market conditions in the U.S.
for the remainder of 2011 and into 2012.
Finally while our market share performance is in large part due to the success of innovations remember that our key competitor in the U.S.
faced a significant product recall starting in the third quarter of 2010 resulting in increased demand for Enfamil.
Though we face a much tougher sales comparison for North America/Europe in the second half of the year our competitor has already recovered some of its share loss.
Nevertheless we continue to expect that our product innovation will contribute to higher share in the second half of 2011 than we reported prior to their recall.
Turning now to our full year outlook.
Our strong performance in the second quarter leads us to increase our sales and EPS guidance for the full year.
We now expect annual sales to grow on a constant dollar basis by up to 14% versus the prior year with another 3% from foreign exchange.
We expect to see annual sales growth in the very high teens in Asia and Latin America and low single digits in North America/Europe.
Non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.75.
This reflects an improved sales outlook but also the headwinds we face in the second half from higher dairy and commodity costs along with our continued commitment to invest behind our strong sales momentum and to support sustainable success.
I will now turn the call over to Pete to provide you further highlights and I will return to wrap up and take your questions.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
It's evening here so I'll limit my remarks to a few additional points on our financial results and outlook.
All my comments will focus on our non-GAAP figures.
First we delivered a 22% increase in reported sales in the second quarter with 18% constant dollar growth and 4% from foreign exchange.
Please note that there was no benefit from currency on our bottom line in the quarter as gains from the remeasurement of our balance sheet added about $0.03 to earnings in 2010.
On a full-year basis we expect currency to add 3% to sales growth.
As you can see in our press release the 18% constant dollar sales growth from the second quarter was driven by a 17% from volume and 1% from pricing.
Steve addressed the key drivers of our strong volume growth so I will focus on pricing in my remarks.
The 1% price increase for the company was fully expected and reflects in part a returns reserve for our year [ph] operations as we completed the transition from Bristol-Myers Squibb to wholly independent distribution.
It also is the result of the timing of promotional programs in some markets this quarter along with a lower level of support in Asia and the U.S.
in the second quarter of 2010.
In particular please note that promotional spending in the U.S.
market did not increase in the second quarter versus the first quarter.
On a year-to-date basis price increases have averaged 3%.
Most of this has been associated with a carryover benefit of price increases taken last year.
In the second half price increases are expected to again fall in the 3% to 4% range on average but will largely result from new rather than carryover pricing.
We announced a 4% price increase for the U.S.
effective August 1 but we're cautious that this early date on how much of this will fall through to benefit our bottom line in 2011.
We remain committed to balancing our premium price strategy with our need to offer a competitive value proposition to consumers in a weak U.S.
economy.
On a full-year basis our expectations for pricing have not changed since last quarter's conference call.
Pricing is estimated to contribute about 3% to growth on average in 2011 with the majority of the increase coming from Asia and Latin America.
Our gross margin of 64.7% was roughly in line with the first quarter and an increase of 120 basis points versus the second quarter of last year.
The solid performance versus 2010 is driven by a number of factors including better fixed cost absorption from volume growth along with a favorable country mix.
One mix example results from increased market share in the United States.
The share gain is coming from our non-WIK U.S.
business which generates one of the highest gross margins in the company.
On a full-year basis we expect gross margin to be around 63.2% down from the 64.6% in the first half.
We have seen significant increases in spot commodity prices for dairy packaging and select agricultural products over the last 6 months that will flow through our cost of goods sold in the second half of the year.
Our full year gross margin estimate has slipped by 10 basis points versus our prior guidance.
This reflects a further increase in North American dairy prices over the last 3 months as milk exports from the United States to Asia had picked up.
Conversely some dairy prices in Asia and Europe have moderated slightly but the net impact is the slight headwind to late year gross margins compared to our earlier expectations.
Also note that manufacturing productivity remains on track to deliver savings of at least 3% of cost of goods sold.
That goes a long way toward helping us to offset commodity price pressures and allows us to maintain full year gross margins close to the level seen in 2010.
Operating expenses in the second quarter were 40.2% of sales up from 37.9% in the first quarter and 39.2% in the prior year.
Focusing on a sequential comparison operating expenses grew by $34 million versus the first quarter.
We significantly increased advertising and promotion spending and also made further investments in sales force expansion research and development and marketing including the launch of our new U.S.
social media app called ExpectingBaby by Enfamil.
Expected moms can now track and share their experiences with family and friends via Twitter and Facebook during their pregnancy.
Several other factors contributed to higher expenses in the second versus the first quarter including an increase in our stock-based compensation expense which was fully expected.
You may recall 2011 is the first year since our IPO that we have a full complement of equity awards in place.
Also at work were higher performance-based compensation accrual from strong sales and profit growth increased distribution expenses driven by higher fuel costs and the initial funding of the Mead Johnson Nutrition Foundation whose mission is to help support the world's most vulnerable infants and children.
While there will be puts or takes in any individual category of spending operating expenses during the third and fourth quarters as measured in dollars should be within striking distance of the second quarter run rate.
As a result we anticipate total operating expenses on a full year basis at about 39.7% of sales 20 basis points higher than our previous guidance.
We are pleased with the returns we're seeing on our demand-generation investments and we'll continue to invest more dollars on strengthening sales.
Advertising and promotion spending should run about 14% of sales for the full year.
During the second quarter we successfully went live with our new SAP platform in both Latin America and Europe.
We now have more than half of our business operating on SAP and the rest will be completed by the end of the year.
We continue to expect some leverage from general and administrative expenses when we move into 2012.
Turning to taxes.
Our effective tax rate or ETR for the quarter came in just under 30% compared to 24.8% last year.
Remember that we reestimate the full year projection each quarter and have to true up our year-to-date numbers accordingly.
That introduces volatility into quarterly tax rates and drove this unfavorable comparison as the second quarter of 2010 was unusually low.
On a full-year basis we expect an ETR between 29% and 29.5% up from 28.6% in 2010.
Strong growth in countries where we repatriate earnings back to the United States thereby subjecting them to a 35% tax rate is the driver here.
Turning to our balance sheet.
Cash at the end of June stood at $704 million.
We repurchased about 460 000 shares of our stock in the second quarter bringing our year-to-date buyback to 860 000 shares consuming $54 million in cash.
Capital spending and depreciation and amortization expense for the full year remain unchanged at $125 million and $75 million respectively.
We entered into a new 5-year revolving credit facility in June.
This was a good deal for us increasing our revolver capacity from about $400 million to $500 million extending the term to 2016 and reducing our borrowing rate about 100 basis points relative to the prior revolver put in place at the time of our IPO.
Our strong cash flow in combination with this facility provides the company with excellent liquidity.
You may recall that we unwound $200 million of fixed to floating interest rate swaps with a gain of about $17 million in late 2010.
In mid-July we unwound the remaining $500 million in swaps for an additional gain of about $24 million.
By unwinding the swaps we effectively locked in their appreciated value or limited any future exposure to higher floating interest rates and now have a portfolio of only fixed rate notes.
The gains from unwinding our not recognized upfront but over the remaining life of the underlying notes.
As a result net interest expense should increase by $3 million in the second half of the year versus the first half.
Finally let me wrap up with a summary of our latest EPS guidance of $2.70 to $2.75 per share up from $2.62 to $2.70 per share the last time we spoke.
Higher sales growth is the single biggest factor at work with constant dollar sale expected to grow up to 14% compared with our prior estimate of 10% for the year.
Foreign exchange is currently estimated to add another 3 points to sales growth.
Our revised estimates also incorporate gross margin of 63.2% down 10 basis points versus our previous estimate largely reflecting further dairy cost pressures in North America.
Operating expenses of 39.7% up 20 basis points driven by higher demand-generation investments distribution costs and incentive accruals among other factors.
Taxes are expected to run between 29% and 29.5% slightly higher than our previous forecast on earnings mix and higher interest expense of about $3 million in the second half of the year.
With that let me turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
Once again I'd like to thank my Mead Johnson colleagues for their commitment and their efforts throughout this quarter's strong company performance.
We look forward to seeing many investors and analysts at our investor conference to be held in the suburban Chicago on Thursday October 13.
The theme will be next steps for growth and our executive management team will share some additional perspectives on our markets and our strategies.
I will now turn the call back to the operator and ask that the line be open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
I'm just trying to understand the back half guidance though for North America.
Your guidance for the year is for -- you said very low single-digit growth for North America.
By my math volume could be down as much as maybe 7% in the back half and that assumes that your price increases are kind of -- I guess kind of slow to come through.
So can you help us understand like the pace of the flow-through of the pricing in the back half for North America and whether volume is looking to be just on a tough comparison down that much? Sure Rob.
In terms of the price increase to 4% we have not counted on very much of that actually benefiting us in the second half of the year.
The actions of our competitors still aren't fully understood.
We'll be anxiously following that during the coming quarter.
That forecast actually has -- we believe we're going to come at around 3% to 4% top line growth for the segment in the quarter.
And if you look at sequential run rates that would imply the second half sales would be down roughly 3% versus the first half.
So that's a -- that would largely be volume driven.
One one quick follow-up.
You've said on most of these calls that you've been getting a lot of market share gains in these Emerging Markets and that we shouldn't count on those gains being necessarily sustainable.
But you've also been investing in these markets massively.
You've put in more advertising.
You've expanded your sales force.
So given all that reinvestment is there -- what what makes you think that these share gains might not be sustainable? Are you seeing something from your competitors that they are coming back as well? Rob the reference I made earlier was specifically to China.
You'll probably be able to figure out from our press release and from this call.
You'll be close to an accurate estimate of the growth that we've achieved in China and you'll be able to compare that with what you're seeing for category growth.
And you'll be able -- I'm sure you'll be able to figure out that we have achieved some very significant market share improvements in China year-over-year the majority of which have come in our existing markets rather than our set train [ph] cities.
The China market is intensely competitive.
Yes we're investing there both in advertising promotion and in sales force expansion but we're not alone as you fully understand.
And it would be unexpected for us to continue to grow share at the rate that we're currently growing.
But clearly we will target and expect to continue to grow share.
And you could probably hold the share at a minimum of what you've achieved so far? That would be right.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry Bivens from JPMorgan.
Just following up on the Rob's question a little bit.
Denoun [ph] this morning talked about the Chinese formula market and they did make the comment that indeed you guys were gaining share but they also tilted that remark towards the super-premium segment in the Chinese market.
Is there anything different -- I mean most of us are familiar with your business over there but has anything changed in regard to the super-premium segment over there from your point of view that might account for that? I haven't read Denoun's [ph] remarks.
But as you know the vast majority of the market in China is the premium and super premium prices.
It's somewhat subjective as to how you define those categories.
But I think what Denoun [ph] is referring to is the growth of brands like our Enfamil A+ their equivalent brand and some of the equivalent brands both of international and local competitors.
The consumer understands that those brands offer by and large the highest standards of science and they perceive them to offer the highest standards of quality.
I emphasize that's more perception than reality because we operate to global quality standards.
But I don't think there's anything significantly different Terry.
But we'll read their remarks and let you know if there's anything that we understand from that that would help you.
And just one quick follow-up.
Obviously the balance sheet is looking very very good here.
Some people would say underleveraged.
You've talked about possibly adding on some bolt-on properties probably overseas.
You've also talked about considering the new drying facility over in Asia.
What do you think we're most likely to see this year just in terms of how you use that balance sheet? And that's it for me.
It's hard to predict the timing of any particular acquisition Terry as I'm sure you're aware.
And if one comes through this year or next year the decision with regard to the new spray drying facility in Asia is one we'll make before year end this year.
So we'll announce that as soon as we're in a position and we've made the decision.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I wanted to just ask a follow-up question on China.
There's been some talk some headlines about some competitor pricing actions over there.
Can you comment about that in any way in which you have or have not responded in terms of your own pricing? One of the lessons that I think companies have learned recently in China is to be very careful about talking about their pricing intentions anything that could be interpreted as signaling prices.
So I won't talk specifically about our plans.
As you know the Chinese government is sensitive to high inflation and the resulting social pressure it may create.
It was reported in the China newspapers that the government met with multinational companies including Mead Johnson.
But in our category we believe they're much more focused on food safety and quality and we are partnering with them on those topics and establishing the right standards.
They did raise potential price controls several years ago but they didn't materialize for our industry.
And the last comment I would make is yes we have heard that some of our international competitors talked price when they recently launched some new innovations.
LLC</strong> And then just as a follow-up on the operating expenses.
You seem pretty intent to really not show leverage there even though you're capable of it.
I'm just in the process of reinvesting back into the business.
And Pete I guess I was just wondering is there a point where just you kind of get enough top line to where you drop more of that through? Yes I think there is.
Our goal is to try to drive EBIT at a faster growth rate than we are at the top line sales.
I think it's difficult this year for us to do that in any significant way because of the SAP implementation and the one-time costs that we're seeing which are not in our non-GAAP but also the shared service cost that we're putting in place.
But I do think moving into 2012 that would probably be the greatest source of leverage for us.
At some point too you could argue you might -- you should see it in -- potentially at sales force expansion et cetera.
But we still have wonderful organic geographic expansion opportunities and I think we'd like to continue to pursue those.
So things like sales force and advertising and promotion are not likely to be a source of EBIT margin expansion moving forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a question on 2 markets China -- Hong Kong China and Brazil.
If you could just -- given the rate the higher rate of inflation and I guess the concern about the effect on consumers in general in both of those markets do you have a volume like a market volume growth rate right now as it stands in both Hong Kong China and Brazil? And I guess what I'm after is has volume growth or consumption growth -- is it still holding? Or has it accelerated? Has it declined? I'm trying to get an idea of what's happening with consumption growth just for the market.
Let me start with Brazil where we saw excellent growth in the second quarter.
We've always had our Sustagen brand which is a children's supplement nutrition supplement which is growing we believe slightly ahead of the market.
And we're actually picking up pretty good share with our Enfa infant formula offering as well at this point.
It's still in its very early stages.
But the market there might be growing a little bit less than us but it's not that big of a differential at this early date.
China the market is not growing anywhere near as fast as we are.
As best we can tell.
We're very careful -- we have to be very careful looking at -- the only data that's available Bryan is really the Nielsen data.
And that would indicate I think over the last quarter that growth for the industry may have slowed 1 point or 2 on that order of magnitude from 10 to 8 7% something like that which wouldn't be unexpected given what the government is trying to accomplish there in terms of controlling inflation et cetera.
But we still feel pretty positive about the market overall and the growth in that market moving forward.
So to be clear that's dollars sales growth or volume growth? That's value.
Value yes.
Because I guess I've had the impression that especially in Hong Kong and China the actual volume growth consumption growth in the market is maybe low single digits at best? I don't believe that's true with Hong Kong.
But you got to be careful too because I do think that there's been some pickup in the rate of product flowing across from Hong Kong into China.
So we would prefer to look at the markets on a combined basis there.
But I do think volume growth is the driver of the slowdown that you mentioned.
Maybe I could just add that we are prepared to sort of share with you the available Nielsen data for the market in both of those geographies.
But we would do so with considerable caution.
Remember that both for China and for Brazil the Nielsen coverage is weak.
And so as you look at that data do so with caution.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Could you just talk a little bit about that market the China market is fairly fragmented but obviously dominated by multinationals.
Could you -- are you driving out the local producers? And then also could you update us on where you stand in terms of the geographic that you have? I think at first quarter you were a little bit ahead of plan.
Could you talk about kind of where you are on the incremental markets for 2011? Yes I'll take that Diane.
We had a full presence which means we had sales and marketing resources on the ground and were spending advertising and promotional dollars in 193 cities at the end of last year and we expect to add an additional 50 cities by the end of this year.
Our product reach is about 1 000 cities.
So when we talk about 200 today 250 by year end I want to emphasize that's where we fully resource [ph] those cities.
In the last quarter I can tell you that 90% of our growth came from established cities and only 10% from those that we've entered in the last 12 months.
And so we're seeing growth both in the market and particularly in our market share even in those established cities in which we've competed for many years.
I'm sorry Diane can you remind me what the first part of the question was? Who do you think you're taking share from? Is it mainly from any local Chinese producers or are you taking share from other multinationals? We've taken share year-over-year both from international competitors and from local competitors.
Because the China market is still growing strongly I think you will hear almost all companies talk about achieving growth.
But clearly we believe that our business model our brands our products our brand proposition and particularly the way we execute with excellence is giving us an advantage.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
This is Rohini Nair calling in on behalf of Eric Katzman.
Just a few quick questions.
Looking at that 10% volume growth in North America would you mind breaking out for us how much of that growth is attributable to the benefit you received from your competitors' recall versus the impact of the new products? And then could you just briefly address also your innovation pipeline looking forward and perhaps the timing of upcoming launches? We've obviously seen great growth this year on the back of the recently launched new products.
So I'm just wondering how you're thinking about the next introductions and the quality of those products as compared to the recent innovations.
We've talked on previous earnings calls about how difficult it is no matter how much market research you do to determine whether the source of your business and your business growth is linked to your innovations to your sales and marketing programs or to the recall of competitor products.
It's quite clear that during the late third quarter and fourth quarter of last year some competitor users switched across to Enfamil and have remained with the brand.
But we strongly believe that the majority of our share gains and the sales growth that we've reported has come from the very successful innovations the patented Dual Prebiotic the newborn product and the plastic tub refill box value system has clearly driven the majority of those -- of that growth.
I'm sorry that I can't be more specific than that because we don't have that data.
Nobody can provide that data.
As far as innovations are concerned we have a very strong and I am convinced very competitive pipeline that I have visibility into over several years.
But I'd rather you didn't sort of count the number of innovations per quarter because we have led a number of very important innovations not just in the U.S.
but around the world.
And you've got to be very careful not to confuse consumers and confuse the market by introducing change too frequently.
We're very happy with the competitiveness of our product offerings right now across each of the segments in which we operate.
And we will make sure we remain competitive.
I would just add to that.
Keep in mind that 10% volume growth in the second quarter it's probably better to rely on a year-to-date number which is closer to 7% as Steve mentioned in his prepared remarks.
We did see a slightly higher growth rate.
Number one because we're comparing of a weaker base last year in the second quarter for the North America/Europe segment.
And number two we did have a point or so of sales growth 1 percentage point or so related to some pipeline fill as we've had more retail outlets except our newborn and value box system.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
First with China -- with regards to China when you talk to the Chinese government do you get any sense from them that they are trying to prop up local producers or formula? Or is that something they've given up in a way that "Okay let's focus on food security and if that means that super premium international for us are the way to go that's where we are going"? The discussions we have with the government are focused very much around ensuring that the appropriate quality and food safety standards and regulatory standards are developed and applied.
And really we haven't had any discussions with them that extend beyond that.
And as I mentioned a few moments ago it's clear that they're being vigilant around food inflation generally.
But not specifically in our category or for our brands.
So do you think that the local producer will come back into the market pre-melamine recall? Or is that market not to be had on internationally? I want to emphasize that really only one of the local competitors went out of business as a consequence of the melamine crisis.
There have been shared shifts but in aggregate.
The local competitors still have a substantial share of the China market.
It's clear that Mead Johnson and 1 or 2 of the other international companies have grown share since the melamine crisis.
But I do want to just sort of dispel the idea that we're driving the local competitors out.
I mean that clearly is not happening and many of the local brands are actually growing in share at the expense of some of the other local brands.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen from William Blair.
I just have a quick question on pricing in the U.S.
Given your commentary that you're really not counting on much benefits in the back half from the 4% increase I think the actions as you've said competitors are unclear at present.
I mean is there -- do you have a sense that -- or maybe you had some moderation of pricing power in the category in the U.S.
which may result in more structural pressure on margins.
I just appreciate any thoughts on that.
Jon at this point I wouldn't draw the conclusion that there is necessarily going to be pricing pressure coming in this category.
It's just a little early for us to make a comment on how much they're going to go after and what near-term promotional programs may be put in place by any one of the competitors in the marketplace.
It's lack of visibility as opposed to a concern that we won't be able to get it.
Thank you operator.
And with that I'll conclude our second quarter earnings call.
I thank all of you for your engagement.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katie and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's third quarter conference call.
With me today are Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K for 2010 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Before we get started I'd like to personally thank all of you who joined us 2 weeks ago at our investor day event.
Since we provided a strategic overview and preliminary third-quarter results we will try to keep this call brief.
I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
We've completed another strong quarter and as you likely read in this morning's press release our results were in line with the positive expectations shared with you at our investor day event 2 weeks ago and our EPS came in at the top end of our preliminary estimate.
Therefore I'll keep my comments brief and focus on the key highlights of our strong sales and earnings results.
We delivered double-digit sales growth of 15% on a reported basis in the third quarter or about 11.5% measured in constant dollars.
Non-GAAP earnings of $0.78 per share up 37% from the prior year quarter came from strong sales growth in emerging markets favorable foreign exchange impacts and a lower effective tax rate offset in part by continued investments in demand generation activities and nonrecurring manufacturing inefficiencies.
And as mentioned earlier this year we're starting to see the gross margin impact of higher commodity costs.
Pete will address the profit and margin numbers in more detail in a few minutes.
Sales for the Asia/Latin America segment grew by 30% on a reported basis or 25% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
I should highlight that about 3% of sales growth for the segment came as the result of some retailers in Asia purchasing extra inventory in advance of the October transition to our new SAP technology platform.
Excluding this factor which is expected to reverse in the fourth quarter constant dollar sales in Asia/Latin America grew by 22%.
Our strongest performance continues to be in China and Hong Kong with growth well above the segment average.
While many investors naturally focus on our performance in Greater China we also have delivered double-digit constant dollar sales growth in the rest of Asia and Latin America in 2011.
We've seen success in the execution of our strategies in most of our emerging markets.
In the North America/Europe segment third quarter sales were 7% lower on a reported basis or down 8% measured in constant dollars.
We expected this tough comparison due in large part to lapping a competitor's U.S.
product recall commencing in September of 2010.
Most importantly our U.S.
market share remains above third quarter 2010 and is evidence that consumers value our many products innovations launched over the past year.
There were also some timing factors at work that reduced U.S.
sales for the last quarter including the phase out of one WIC contract in Indiana without the full phase-in on a new Mead Johnson contract for New England states.
That should be completed in the fourth quarter.
Importantly volume continued to be the key driver of sales growth at 7.5% for the company in total and a strong 19% in Asia and Latin America.
Higher pricing added 4% with both developed and emerging market segments seeing the benefit.
We will continue to use pricing as well as productivity gains to manage gross margins as we move into 2012.
Turning now to our full year outlook.
We've maintained our constant dollar sales growth projection at about 14% versus the prior year with another 2.5% from foreign exchange.
We expect to see annual sales growth slightly above 20% in Asia/Latin America with North America/Europe in the low single digits.
Non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.73 to $2.78 up from the $2.70 to $2.75 range from last quarter.
Operating expenses of 39.7% of sales reflect our commitment to continue investing in demand generation activities to support sustainable sales and earnings growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete to provide you further highlights and will return to wrap up and take your questions.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
As a reminder my comments will focus on non-GAAP figures.
I will cover 3 key topics: first the key drivers of our third quarter EPS improvement; second those factors which impact fourth quarter and full year EPS; and finally some brief comments on our balance sheet and free cash flow.
Third quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.78 per share were $0.21 higher than 2010.
About $0.08 of this increase is related to foreign exchange impacts on our balance sheet.
Many consumer goods companies operate in their major markets with self-contained local manufacturing and local currency costs and thus are not subject to any significant foreign exchange exposure for their balance sheet.
We however spray dry our base infant formulas at centralized facilities.
These plants invoice in dollars for products shipped into other markets and have dollar cash and receivable accounts on their local currency books.
As a result they face balance sheet remeasurement gains or losses on these accounts as exchange rates fluctuate.
In the third quarter of last year we saw a weakening dollar and recognized balance sheet remeasurement losses as a result.
And in the third quarter 2011 we have seen the opposite trend with the dollar strengthening against many currencies leading to balance sheet remeasurement gains.
Well that is one key factor affecting the year-over-year comparison.
A second factor is that we saw a $0.03 EPS hit from pension settlement expense in the third quarter of last year.
This is the result of accounting rules which dictate that when lump-sum payments from a defined benefit plan exceed pension expense a portion of the plan's deferred losses need to be recognized immediately.
Given that our plan is frozen our pension expense is relatively low so it doesn't take many retirees to generate the settlement expense.
With the first 3 quarters of 2011 however we have seen lower lump-sum payouts than in 2010 and have not yet hit the threshold to recognize any pension settlement charges.
Instead we anticipate this expense will show up in the fourth quarter.
Absent these 2 items EPS grew by about $0.10 per share or about 17% in the quarter.
Strong sales growth and a lower effective tax rate were offset by lower gross margins and a higher level of operating expenses.
This quarter's gross margin of 61.6% was below our earlier expectations by almost a full percentage point.
We incurred onetime manufacturing inefficiencies at a plant that supplies Asia.
Due to strong demand in these markets which was further aggravated by our desire to build inventories in advance of the October SAP launch in Asia we rebalanced global inventories leading to higher airfreight costs.
We're operating at normal capacity now and this factor will not recur.
Higher dairy and agricultural oil costs came through as expected also driving gross margins down relative to the mid-64% range seen in the first half of the year.
As we showed at the investor day event the largest increase in dairy costs in 2011 has been in the North American market.
And further pressure on market margins will be evident in the fourth quarter for the North America/Europe segment.
On a full year basis we currently expect gross margins to be slightly less than 63% and below the 63.2% expectation set last quarter.
The third quarter manufacturing inefficiencies I just mentioned are the reason for the reduction.
Absent foreign exchange and pension impacts operating expenses grew by $45 million or $0.16 per share compared to the prior year quarter.
Most of this is demand generation spend for marketing sales force advertising and promotion along with research and development.
We expect our spending levels in the fourth quarter to grow even further reducing earnings by as much as $0.08 per share relative to the third quarter.
On a full year basis we anticipate total operating expenses will be consistent with our previous guidance at about 39.7% of sales of which advertising and promotion spending should run around 14% of sales.
Turning to taxes our effective tax rate or ETR came in about 24% on a non-GAAP basis compared to 31% of last year.
Each quarter we update our full year tax rate and also true up our tax accruals to apply that latest rate estimate to pretax earnings generated year-to-date not just in the current quarter.
We now forecast the 2011 full year rate to be just under 28% about 100 basis points lower than our June estimate.
That is due to a favorable country mix higher manufacturing and R&amp;D tax incentives and favorable adjustments to accounting tax provisions as we file our tax returns each September.
The drop in the 2011 tax rate increased EPS in the quarter by about $0.03 with $0.02 of that due to the benefit from first-half earnings.
The key assumptions behind our full year earnings guidance of $2.73 to $2.78 per share include 14% constant dollar sales growth plus an additional 2.5% from foreign exchange.
Gross margin is slightly below 63%.
Operating expenses of about 39.7% and effective tax rate just below 28% are also expected.
Obviously there are some considerable timing differences in our third-quarter results but let me quickly highlight some of the factors affecting our fourth quarter.
A high-end of our EPS guidance would imply fourth quarter earnings of $0.51 per share.
That's a drop in consecutive quarterly earnings of about $0.27 per share.
Five factors account for over 90% of the reduction: First EPS was boosted by about $0.03 in the third quarter by customer purchases in advance of our October SAP launch.
Those shipments will reverse in the fourth quarter leading to a consecutive earnings decline of a full $0.06.
Second we anticipate pension settlement expenses of $0.03 to come through in the fourth quarter.
Third we saw about $0.04 per share from balance sheet remeasurement gains in the third quarter of this year.
Those will not repeat.
In fact the dollar has weakened a bit over the last few weeks and we now expect $0.01 or so of balance sheet remeasurement losses in the fourth quarter.
Well those factors reduces consecutive quarterly EPS by about $0.05.
Fourth we anticipate that operating expenses will grow in the fourth quarter by as much as $0.08 per share.
And fifth we will see a timing impact from unfavorable fixed cost absorption of about $0.03.
Production rates are down slightly in the second half relative to the run rates seen earlier in the year and are lower than average rates we expect to see moving forward.
There are a number of other factors at work including higher dairy cost in North America and the unfavorable translation impact from a stronger dollar.
Also note that the third quarter results included a benefit from a reduced tax rate on first-half earnings that will not recur.
These are partially offset by the recovery from manufacturing inefficiencies seen in the third quarter.
Finally note that the $0.03 per share increase in our full year earnings guidance reflects the net favorable foreign exchange impacts the lower tax rate partly offset by the manufacturing inefficiencies during the third quarter.
Operating performance excluding these items is largely unchanged from our earlier expectations.
Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow.
Cash at the end of September stood at $761 million of which all but $120 million was held outside the United States.
Year-to-date free cash flow defined as cash provided by operations less capital expenditures stood at $383 million.
We repurchased about 400 000 shares of our stock in the third quarter bringing our year-to-date buyback to 1.3 million shares consuming $81.6 million in cash.
Adding dividends we have returned more than 60% of cash flow to shareholders so far this year.
For the full year capital spending is forecast at about $120 million down slightly from our earlier estimate of $125 million due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Depreciation and amortization expense will be about $76 million.
With that help me turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
Before closing one last note about our operations.
I'm pleased to say that our final wave of SAP implementations that occurred in Asia went smoothly at the beginning of October.
All of our markets are now on one technology platform and I personally want to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication to achieving this significant implementation on schedule.
As I summarized during the closing of our investor day event nothing could be more inspiring for our leaders and employees than driving a successful global company that is winning in the marketplace while making such an important difference to the lives of infants and children.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator and ask that the line be opened for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Steve I have a question and really kind of following up from your investor day in the comments there from the bulk of the growth from China coming from the cities I think you've been in or fully -- you sort of fully resourced for more than 12 months.
I think you said it was 90% of the growth is coming from that.
And I guess how many cities do you currently consider of the -- I guess 250 that you're in right now how many cities do you consider to really be in that comp base? Thank you Diane.
So you got it right.
The 90% of our growth in the quarter came from cities in which we have been fully resourced for more than a year and 10% came from "Step Change" cities that we've entered in the last year.
Over the last year we've entered around 60 to 70 new cities so 180 to 190 of those 250 cities have been fully operational for more than year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess my question is really I think investors sort of -- obviously everybody appreciates your growth story.
I mean I don't think that there's anybody out there that questions that but the question I get from investors is really kind of how low can it continue? So if you added -- you've got another 50 to 60 cities that will be in your comp base kind of this time next year and then an additional 160 cities over the course of -- how many years until you get to 400 cities? Well we've said well within the 5-year period and we've also said that it's likely to be more than 400 cities as the economy of China continues to grow and as urbanization continues to take place.
I think as you do your math if you -- I think there is way too much emphasis put upon the "Step Change" operation into the future and the contribution it's going to make to our growth.
Don't forget as we said before that Goldman Sachs has estimated that the number children in China born into families with middle-class incomes will triple over the next 20 years.
The majority of our growth is coming from cities in which we've been operating for more than a decade.
We're growing very fast in Guangzhou Shanghai Beijing Chengdu.
The "Step Change" operation complements that core growth but we're not dependent on it so we feel very confident in the sustainable performance of our business.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess my -- the basis of my question is really as you enter those new cities and they become part of your -- kind of your comp base over the next 3 to 5 years I guess my question is should we look at China growing at 20%-plus for the foreseeable future based on the performance of once you're in a city it's fully resourced kind of people know your product and you have sales force and the kind of pediatric tie-in.
I think what's important Diane is to recognize -- let's take Guangzhou which is the first city we entered almost 20 years ago.
The economy of that city is growing.
The population of that city's growing.
The number of children born into middle-class families is growing.
And don't forget that we're gaining share.
Our brand proposition our superior science the recognition of the quality of our products is convincing more new mothers to choose Mead Johnson over other competitors.
So we haven't given good specific guidance for the future in terms of sales growth and certainly not for any one country.
But we do feel extremely confident of our ability to continue to generate strong sustainable growth in China.
It's all -- it will be our -- together with Hong Kong it will be our single largest business this year.
And clearly the growth is something that really excites us as we look forward.
The next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
Pete when you look at your pricing throughout the year is that a little bit higher than what you expected at the beginning of the year? I think I would say generally in line with our expectations as we move through the year.
On a full year basis our guidance assumes something slightly over 3%.
The one market I think if we're sitting here back in January where we've taken higher pricing that we didn't have original expectations for was in the United States and that's in response to the very high run-up in dairy costs that we've seen in North America as I pointed out in the investor day.
And if you look at our price growth for the North America and Europe segment in the third quarter you'll start to see -- I think we reported about 2%.
You're starting to see the impact of some that come through in our bottom line there.
But everything else has been pretty much in line with expectations.
And as we move forward especially this quarter and the next quarter where at least in North America bulk costs or commodity inflation in dairy is going to hit your income statement so is there -- is it reasonable to expect that pricing's contribution to sales growth will be higher as we go forward into 2012? I think it could be slightly higher.
I would correct one point you made.
I mean we've seen dairy prices peak earlier in the year in Europe and the Oceania markets which is pretty critical for our Asian business and have come down since then.
So there's probably if anything a little bit of pressure relative to the pricing that we're seeing right now that will come off as we move into the first quarter next year.
And the story though does hold up in North America.
And I think if we're seeing 3% for the full year we will probably try to target something a little bit higher than that.
We are still working to try to maintain gross margins on a full year basis at that 63% level and that will be an important component to being able to do that as Steve mentioned.
And just one more.
On a broader scale as you grow into China and in Asia and Latin America your children nutrition business is going to grow faster or at least become a bigger part of the portfolio.
So I want to see how that changes the margin profile if you could just put a little bit more color on what -- how is the margin profile of your infant nutrition versus children nutrition and specifically in terms of exposure to dairy as well? Right.
I think that first of all we are seeing excellent growth in the children's nutrition business in Asia and Latin America but infant formula is growing very very close to that same rate so I don't see our mix changing in any significant way for the next couple of years.
And remember if you look at the EBIT margins for Asia and Latin America they're higher than what you see in North America and Europe.
So well don't focus just on gross margin also focus on the operating expenses which will generally be at a lower level than what you see in North America/Europe.
And just in terms of dairy exposure children nutrition my understanding is that has greater exposure to dairy versus infant right? Yes.
Are you able to quantify like what percent of COGS? Amit -- do you want to take this? Amit we do try to keep it to one call -- or one question each so I'll let Pete answer this and then we do need to turn it on to the next person.
I appreciate it.
I mean COGS in total is roughly 25% to 30% of our -- or dairy excuse me is 25% to 30% of our cost of goods sold.
The milk component in children's nutrition products is probably something closer to 50% whereas infant formula is at 10% but we are in front [ph] for doing that.
Your next question comes the line of Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> We've published a big report on operating leverage ahead of your analyst day.
And now that I look at the quarter it's almost -- optically anyway it looks like almost too much of a good thing because you have SG&amp;A down as a percentage of sales by 320 basis points from a year ago.
But I was hoping you could kind of tease through here the extent to which that still includes a pretty robust increase in advertising sales force expansion versus just leveraging G&amp;A expenses versus where you thought a few months ago Pete.
Are you still giving more money to your emerging markets to expand? Or have you told them to kind of ease up a little bit given that the gross margins are a little light? First of all I think if you're looking at those -- the operating expenses that must include the balance-sheet-remeasurement foreign exchange gains that I talked about in my prepared remarks.
Excluding FX and some other noise that goes through there our spending in the third quarter was running 1 full point 100 basis points higher than what we had in the third quarter of last year.
We have not cut spending in any market of our emerging markets.
And if anything as we've discussed as we moved through this year given our very strong top line growth we've invested more in advertising and promotion and sales force R&amp;D and marketing.
So I think if you're seeing some noise in the quarter it's probably because of FX nothing else.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you think -- in fourth quarter that noise will be over and you'll -- it'll look measurably different in terms of SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales.
Yes.
Absent some further sharp change in exchange rates we will see higher spending in the fourth quarter than we have in the third.
I mentioned that would be up roughly as much as $0.08 a share.
That's something about $25 million higher than what you would've seen in the third quarter.
And you've got to be very careful Rob too here.
And we've said this a couple of times.
Don't pay to attention to any one quarter because the timing of when we do certain promotional events et cetera can vary depending on product launches et cetera.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So a question on pricing.
We had a question earlier on pricing your ability to price.
The margins surprised a little bit.
Once you got the composition they surprised to the downside a little bit for me in Asia/Lat Am.
And I know Nielsen information is not perfect or precise but when we look at the Nielsen data out of China it does show healthy price growth for the category.
But for the last 4 months including the last 2 months you guys have been lagging the category by nearly 10 percentage points.
Are there pricing constraints for your business in China right now? Absolutely not.
Be careful with the Nielsen data.
It's notoriously inaccurate.
The coverage is extremely poor.
We're working with Nielsen to try and improve that.
We have not taken a price increase in China recently nor do we intend to.
Our mix is a premium mix.
We're very comfortable with our price positioning and with the value equation that our brands and products represent.
And we are not going to simply exploit the Chinese consumers' tendency to assume that high price equals best science equals best quality.
That is not necessarily the case.
And keep in mind too we've said we generally -- and there are exceptions obviously to this but we generally look for pricing when we launch product innovation.
Well note -- you can see the margins that we enjoy in our Asia/Latin America segment.
And as we told you before our margins in China are superior to the segment.
So I think that we are extremely comfortable with our price positioning and there are no constraints as we look forward and deliver further innovations to the market.
And I would also point out you started out mentioning that margins are down that prices are a little bit to the downside.
If you look at Asia/Latin America we're down roughly 300 basis points third quarter this year versus last year.
The majority of that is really attributable to the impact of that -- those manufacturing inefficiencies.
It shows up in that segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Steve the guidance on gross margin I think you both said that it would be below or at about 63% and that the manufacturing inefficiencies were kind of onetime in the 3Q but in order to get to that $0.63 number it looks like you have to have a slightly lower gross margin in the 4Q than in the 3Q.
Am I doing something wrong there? Or are you expecting gross margins to be a little bit weaker in the fourth quarter? No you're absolutely right.
If you look at what we said gross margins on a full year basis slightly below 63%.
Based on the year-to-date performance that might imply something around 61% in the fourth quarter so you're absolutely right.
A couple of factors driving that.
First is the fact we're going to be facing higher dairy costs in North America in particular.
That's the biggest.
That's still going through.
It has peaked and started to drop a little.
It hasn't dropped significantly but there's the 6-month delay before what you see in spot prices and when it shows up in our COGS.
In addition I mentioned the fact that we're going to have lower production rates.
We saw a little bit of that in the third quarter.
We're going to see a bigger impact of that in the fourth quarter and that just gets to the fact that when you look at our global production rates first half are higher than second half some of that due to the Abbott recall.
But even when we look at it on a normalized basis we are seeing an impact in gross margins in Q4 which are really timing-driven.
We might see some of that rollover into Q1.
But on a full year basis next year it's not going to impact it.
And then we get a benefit from favorable mix coming through and also pricing in the coming year.
The bottom line is that we wouldn't want you -- don't draw a conclusion about full year gross margins based on that 61% or so in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I know you don't want to get into 2012 guidance but the negative operating leverage in the U.S.
I mean should we expect that -- at least that segment operating margin to be perhaps flat to down given the dairy and the negative operating leverage? I think when we look at next year -- we've said in the past we're targeting something 63% or more.
We believe we're going to be able to achieve that in 2012.
We're seeing very healthy gross margins in Asia.
We're -- we would expect probably North America/Europe at least early in the year to see some additional pressure because of production rates and because of the higher dairy costs.
We'll see if dairy comes down but keep in mind we have seen a decrease in dairy in Asia and Europe and that will start to show up in our P&amp;L because of the lag effect until the first half of next year.
Your next question from David Driscoll from Citi Investment Research.
Hi this is Alexis Borden filling in for David this morning.
I just have a question about advertising and marketing.
Just wondering about the potential of television advertising in the United States.
I know you guys do it in limited quantity now but how is it going? How big do you think it could be? We drive demand in a whole series of ways both through healthcare professionals and direct to consumers and TV advertising is a relatively small component of that mix but we do use it in the United States.
We're targeting an important but relatively small constituent group within the total population.
And TV advertising is therefore not as cost effective as direct marketing digital marketing social media and our world-class direct-mail program.
But TV advertising will continue to play a role.
During our investor conference we showed television advertising both for our newborn product and for our Enfagrow products and we showed the Spanish language version of that to reinforce the fact that the -- that we have many Hispanic marketing efforts that are really helping to drive growth in that important part of the population.
But don't expect us to be a mass advertiser on television but we will continue to use it sort of thoughtfully and selectively.
At this time I'm showing we have no further questions.
I'd like to hand the call back over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you.
I just wanted to say we did try to keep it short as we had promised at the beginning.
Again I want to thank those who came to our investor day.
For those who didn't just a reminder that that information is on our website and I thank you and have a good day.
Operator? Thank you for participation in today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeda and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that we are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time.
And I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As you read in our press release we concluded 2011 with continued strong performance and delivered an exceptional year of sales and earnings growth.
Fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.52 per share on 14% constant dollar sales growth were in line with our expectations.
As expected higher dairy prices greater demand generation investments and the timing of pension settlement expense and tax accruals more than offset the benefit of sales growth in the quarter.
Our fourth quarter results brought full year non-GAAP earnings to $2.79 per share an increase of 15% from the prior year.
Let me highlight some of our key achievements in 2011.
First we delivered 14% constant dollar sales growth on a full year basis setting a new growth record for the company in recent times.
This growth was led by our Asia/Latin America segment which posted 22% growth excluding foreign exchange and now accounts for 66% of our global sales up from 61% in 2010.
In the markets where we compete our sales grew at the highest rate of any of the 5 major global competitors during the year.
Sales in China/Hong Kong grew over 40% and it became our top global market in 2011 with sales of over $1 billion.
The North America/Europe segment grew by 3% from a combination of both volume and price.
The majority of this growth came from the United States despite continued declines in birth and formula consumption.
We delivered gross margins of 63% for the year a drop of only 40 basis points from 2010 despite inflationary pressures on our product costs that approached 12%.
Higher pricing and record productivity helped to mitigate the commodity headwinds which were largely seen in the second half of the year.
Our supply chain team exceeded their productivity goal by delivering over 4% savings on cost of goods sold.
We continue to invest competitively in sales force expansion advertising and promotion marketing and research and development and have seen results in market share gains measured on a value basis across Asia/Latin America.
We completed our global SAP implementation and shared service transition in October.
This was the final step on our road to full independence from Bristol-Myers Squibb.
The successful execution was the result of a tremendous effort led by dedicated employees around the world.
This project is a critical cornerstone of our plans to drive global operational efficiencies and reduce general and administrative spending from 8.5% of sales in 2011 to 6.5% by 2015.
In the fourth quarter we opened our third Mead Johnson Pediatric Nutrition Institute in Guangzhou China adding to the existing institutes in Latin America and the U.S.
These centers provide additional capabilities to develop nutritional science and new products and facilitate strong relationships with key scientific and regulatory stakeholders around the world.
In December we announced the decision to build our first Asia spray dryer and technology center which will be located in Singapore.
This is the biggest capital expenditure in our company's history and is needed to support the future growth of our fast-growing Asia region.
Finally I announced a number of management changes at year end designed to support the company's ambitious growth plans.
Kasper Jakobsen who most recently served as the Head of our Americas business and previously led our Asia region was named our Chief Operating Officer a newly created position to oversee our global commercial operations.
Additionally I appointed Charles Urbain previously President of Asia and Europe to the new role of Senior Vice President Stakeholder Relations and Chief Development Officer in recognition of the importance of business development to complement our superior organic growth.
Let me now provide some additional commentary on our performance in our 2 operating segments in 2011 and then conclude with our latest thinking on expected growth in 2012.
Starting with Asia and Latin America I've already noted the constant dollar sales in China/Hong Kong grew in excess of 40% in 2011 with the vast majority of the increase from higher volumes.
These markets now account for just under 30% of our total sales.
As we mentioned at our Investor Day last fall we expect 2012 growth rates in China/Hong Kong to be below the levels seen in 2011.
We estimate that about 75% of our recent volume gains came from increased market share in the quarter from overall market growth.
From a planning perspective while we will continue to grow share we can't anticipate that the magnitude of share gains seen last year will continue indefinitely given the competitiveness of the category.
And while there's no doubt that food safety concerns in China have led some parents to move toward premium brands such as Enfamil we cannot predict that this trend will continue at the same rate.
As a result we currently anticipate that growth will return to more normal levels in 2012 while still being well above the mid-teen average expected for the Asia/Latin America segment.
Note that by the end of 2011 we were fully resourced in 241 cities in China.
The new cities we entered in the last 18 months contributed about 15% of our volume growth with the majority of growth coming from established cities.
In 2012 we expect to continue our geographic expansion into an additional 50 cities through our disciplined Step Change program.
Importantly our Asia/Latin America growth goes well beyond China/Hong Kong.
In this segment we saw a dozen markets growing in double digits.
As Kasper presented at our Investor Day Latin America has targeted sales of $1 billion by 2015.
We are well on our way to achieving that goal with the Latin America regional sales growth in the mid-teens and Brazil growing rapidly to become our eighth largest sales market in 2011.
In the North America/Europe segment annual sales was 3% favorable to the prior year on a constant dollar basis.
I should note that about a point of this growth came from a liquid adult private label nutrition product we manufactured for U.S.
retailers in the second half of the year.
Excluding these private label sales constant dollar growth of 2% came mainly in the U.S.
from product innovation launched in 2010 along with the benefit from a competitive late 2010 product recall.
In reflecting upon the full year I'm pleased with the gains made in the U.S.
where pricing and increased market share more than offset the continued decline in the birth rate and lower infant formula consumption.
However this segment is not without its challenges as we enter 2012.
Most of you are aware of the media issue in late December concerning several infant formula brands including Enfamil Newborn.
The FDA and CDC ultimately issued a joint press release 9 days after the story first broke which stated that there was no contamination found in sealed containers of our product entirely consistent with the results from our own exhaustive quality testing protocols.
While it is very difficult to quantify the impact at this early date we believe that misleading headlines and the resultant uncertainty caused some moms to switch from the Enfamil brand and others to start on an alternative formula.
We responded quickly with appropriate activities including an extensive e-mail communication reassuring millions of mothers about the 2 300 quality and safety checks we perform to ensure the integrity of every product that we ship to market.
And we've now begun a broader mass-market campaign including TV advertising focusing on our quality testing and the fact that we are the #1 brand recommended by pediatricians in the U.S.
While there was no noticeable impact on our fourth quarter sales given the late December timing we expect to see lower market share potentially into the third quarter of this year as those babies who switched were started on another formula age into heavier consumption period.
Let me also highlight 3 other factors that will drive U.S.
results.
First we expect that the birth rate and infant formula consumption will continue to fall in 2012 reducing industry sales by a further 2% to 3%.
Second keep in mind that we gained market share from a late 2010 competitor's recall that favorably helped our first half 2011 revenues.
That benefit dissipated as we moved through last year.
Our first half comparisons in the U.S.
for 2012 will suffer as a result.
Third there are a number of WIC contracts that are open for bidding in 2012.
The biggest contract that we currently hold is in California which accounts for more than 14% of total WIC births.
California was rebid late in November and I am pleased that we retained this contract which will roll over effective August 1.
We have 2 other contracts that account for a total of 7% of WIC births that have yet to be bid with a rollover date of October 3.
While these factors in the U.S.
will have the greatest impact on segment results we do expect to see some modest growth in Europe.
You'll recall that in the second quarter of 2011 we implemented SAP in this market and moved to a new distribution model where we hold more inventory centrally rather than at our distributors.
The absence of this inventory correction will contribute to growth in 2012.
Finally let me comment upon our outlook for 2012.
We look forward to a year of solid sales and earnings growth.
It's very early in the year and there is more uncertainty than usual given the present conditions in the U.S.
market.
Nevertheless we currently expect constant dollar sales growth for the company to be in the range of 7% to 9% for the full year with Asia and Latin America growth in the mid-teens while North America/Europe is expected to decline in the mid-single digits for the reasons described a few moments ago.
We are initiating 2012 non-GAAP EPS guidance in the range of $3 to $3.10 up 8% to 11% relative to 2011.
Gross margin will be around 63% for the full year flat with 2011 as higher pricing and productivity offset dairy and cost inflation particularly for North America.
And we expect to see total operating expenses of around 39.3% as seen in 2011.
We intend to take the majority of the savings from reductions in general and administrative spending and reinvest them back into the business to sustain our strong growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete to provide you further highlights and I will return to wrap up and take your questions.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
I'll walk down our income statement providing some additional detail on our fourth quarter results and highlight trends that we currently forecast for 2012.
Starting with our top line as Steve mentioned constant dollar sales grew by 14% in the fourth quarter basically in line with our full year 2011 results.
The growth was largely driven by our Asia/Latin America segment which saw a sales growth of 18% excluding the impact of foreign exchange with 14% from volume and 4% from price.
We also reported 6% growth from our North America/Europe operations in the fourth quarter almost equally split between volume and pricing.
This was driven by a number of factors.
About 2/3 of the segment's higher sales originated in Europe.
We had started to reduce distributors' inventory during the fourth quarter of 2010 in anticipation of the SAP launch and new distribution model in 2011.
That made the comparison easier this past quarter.
In October 2011 we launched our patented Dual Prebiotics and our plastic tub and value refill box system in Canada increasing volumes there.
And as Steve mentioned we have some sales from the manufacturing of private label adult nutrition products for retailers.
As you would expect these sales carry a significantly lower gross margin than our core product offerings.
Absent these factors our U.S.
business was down by 1% in the fourth quarter.
The benefit of the August price increase was evident at about 4% with volumes down about 5% reflecting a tougher comparison against a competitor's recall in the prior year.
Looking forward we expect 2012 sales growth for the company to run between 7% to 9% excluding foreign exchange down from 14% in 2011.
Asia/Latin America at constant dollar sales should grow in the mid-teens versus 22% last year.
Lower but still impressive planned growth in China/Hong Kong is the key driver.
North America and Europe sales are expected to decline by the mid-single digits versus growth of 3% in 2011 reflecting lower births and consumption as well as lower average market share as Steve outlined earlier.
We expect that the comparison will be toughest in the first half of the year possibly into the third quarter until babies who switched from Enfamil because of the December media issue start to age out of the category.
And remember we also had captured a higher number of babies in the first half of 2011 from a competitor's recall in late 2010.
Note that volume will remain critical to our sales growth in emerging markets in 2012.
It will be partially offset by the U.S.
For the company in total pricing gains should average about 4% compared to 3% last year.
There was continued strengthening of the dollar against a number of key currencies in the fourth quarter including the euro the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso reducing sales by 1%.
If current exchange rates continue throughout the year 2012 full year sales would decline by the same 1%.
On an earnings basis foreign exchange is expected to reduce EPS by about $0.06 per share in 2012 versus 2011.
Our gross margin in the fourth quarter was just over 61% down from 62.3% a year ago and the 63% full year figure.
As expected higher dairy and commodity costs were at work particularly affecting North America.
In addition we saw unfavorable fixed cost absorption as lower U.S.
production rates in the second half of the year rolled through our cost of goods sold.
The lower production volumes were driven by a partial share recovery by a competitor following their late 2010 recall.
We are expecting 2012 gross margins to remain around 63% for the full year.
Inflation and our cost of goods sold is expected to moderate to the mid- to high-single digit following 12% inflation in 2011.
Higher pricing strong productivity initiatives and improved manufacturing performance will all contribute and help offset the impact of commodity and conversion cost inflation.
Note that we have mentioned in prior calls that recent dairy price increases have been particularly significant in North America while Asia had reported some declines since peaking in mid-2011.
While we have seen some modest decline for non-fat dry milk in North America over the last 3 months any benefit has been completely offset by higher lactose and whey prices.
So gross margins in the North America/Europe segment will remain under pressure in 2012.
If you look at our year-end balance sheet you will see that our inventories are up by $94 million compared to the end of September.
During the fourth quarter we purchased an additional 6 months of our 2012 milk requirements for Asia.
That accounts for $77 million of the inventory increase.
This was done to provide better price stability for 2012 and took into account expert views on future prices.
With this advanced buy we have 10 months of certainty for a significant portion of our Asian dairy cost of goods sold this year.
As expected operating expenses totaling $382 million in the fourth quarter were up by $33 million or $0.12 per share versus the third quarter.
Pension settlement expense accounted for about $0.03 of the increase.
Remember that this expense showed up in the third quarter of 2010 so it’s timing factor that doesn't influence our full year comparison.
In addition we saw a $0.04 drop in foreign exchange balance sheet remeasurement gains relative to the third quarter.
A higher level of investment in sales force marketing and research and development account for the remaining $0.05.
On an annual basis 2011 operating expense came in at 39.3% of sales.
We expect to see a similar spend level in 2012.
Now that we are no longer operating on the Bristol-Myers Squibb platform we will eliminate $12 million in duplicate shared service costs.
And we also should see greater leverage of our general and administrative spending or G&amp;A now as we start to leverage a common global IT platform.
We currently intend to reinvest most of these G&amp;A savings back into the business with the U.S.
mass media campaign being one item of particular note.
As was the case in 2011 if our sales expectations move higher during the year we will continue to look at other demand generation investment opportunities to drive further sales growth.
The non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR for the quarter was 31.3% up from 27.3% a year ago.
We reforecast our full tax rate each quarter and true up our year-to-date tax accruals to reflect that latest rate.
This introduces additional volatility in our quarterly tax rates.
When we look at the numbers on a full year basis however much of that volatility is removed.
Our non-GAAP effective rate was 28.5% in 2011 right in line with the 28.6% in 2010.
We expect that the effective tax rate will center around 28% in 2012 but could vary from 27.5% to 28.5%.
Pulling all these factors together we forecast that non-GAAP EPS will fall in the range of $3 to $3.10 per share this year.
Classified items reduced non-GAAP earnings by $0.32 per share in 2011 reflecting the heavy investment in our new SAP technology platform.
While SAP is fully functional around our global business we need to finish the effort by installing a few related software applications but at much reduced cost than in 2011.
Classified costs will therefore fall to $0.09 per share in 2012.
On a GAAP basis earnings should range from $2.91 to $3.01 per share this year up 18% to 22% versus the $2.47 in GAAP EPS in 2011.
Before turning the call back to Steve I'd like to highlight a few items about our balance sheet and cash flow.
Free cash flow measured as cash from operations less capital expenditures reached an impressive $523 million last year.
We ended 2011 with $840 million in cash up $245 million from December of 2010.
That's after a dividend increase of nearly 16% and the repurchase of about 1.3 million shares of our stock which consumed $82 million in cash.
Net debt fell 26% during 2011 from $938 million to $692 million.
The highest priority for our cash is to grow our business.
This is exemplified by capital spending which is estimated at $220 million in 2012 about double the level from 2011.
Depreciation and amortization expense is estimated to grow from $75 million to $83 million.
Including in our capital expenditures is roughly $100 million for our new spray dryer and technology center in Singapore.
The total capital cost for this project is $300 million which will be completed in 2014.
Upgrades and other normal capital spending should run around $120 million in 2012 equivalent to about 3% of sales.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
At our 2011 Investor Day I introduced our new company visual identity and the compelling tagline Nourishing the Best Start in Life.
There's no more inspiring message for the global employees of Mead Johnson than to be reminded of our mission.
I'd like to conclude by acknowledging the exceptional efforts of those employees around the globe who delivered such strong performance in 2011 and who are committed to continue driving sustainable profitable growth in 2012.
We will now be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the commentary about what happened in North America and the sales commentary especially.
But could you just tell us what you're looking for on the bottom line? I mean some kind of range between the expected earnings loss and then whatever potential advertising campaign you have to do to try to let mothers know that it's safe to use your product? I guess what I'm asking is what would your guidance have been if it hadn't been for the Cronobacter? We're not going to answer that Diane.
I appreciate the question understand the reason for it but there's a lot of moving parts in here.
And I will say that the advertising campaign is estimated about $0.03 per share.
And just keep in mind too we indicated for North America that sales were going to be down in the mid-single digits there.
We expect to see some pricing.
We increased prices in the U.S.
4% back in August so we'll get about a half-year benefit of that this year.
So that implies obviously that the volume decline for North America/Europe is going to be in the high-single digits if you will.
And some of that decline is coming from the fact that we expect the total market to be down another 2% to 3%.
We also are comparing against higher share during the Abbott recall for the first half of last year which is accounting for a couple points and then it's the residual piece that really is driven by the December issue.
But it's still very very early and we can't sit back and quantify with precision where that's going to come out.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about the operating expense guidance.
The message that we took away from the Analyst Day was that you're going to kind of keep decelerating expenses at the same level but drop through the G&amp;A leverage.
And your 2012 assumptions seem a little bit different from that.
I'm just kind of wondering if we interpreted your message the right way and if so why 2012 is shaping up to be a little bit different? And then as a quick follow-up Pete could you maybe just talk about the quarterly flow of the A&amp;P spending this year? Usually it's kind of light in the first quarter relative to the rest of the year but with the campaign in the U.S.
I'm wondering how much that might change the Q1 percentage? Sure.
First of all your understanding from the Investor Day was absolutely correct.
We do intend to use G&amp;A reductions on a percentage of sales basis as the source of EBIT leverage and margin leverage moving forward.
When you look at this year it's January.
We have had this event in December which did lead related to the prior question to lower sales growth in North America/Europe than we had anticipated.
And keep in mind too that the advertising campaign is coming through too that hadn't been anticipated at that point.
So we're maintaining flexibility.
I think in light of that our intent is to continue to spend aggressively in the markets that are growing and not cut there.
But don't think that we've moved away from that thought we continue to seek EBIT leverage from G&amp;A.
It's just that this particular year at this point of the year we're not willing to commit to that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Quick question some more housekeeping items on guidance.
I think you said correct me if I'm wrong but the FX would be a $0.06 drag for the full year? Right.
Research Division</strong> Is that just the translation? Or how should we think about the transaction benefit given the cross rates between the euro and Asian currencies? It's the total EBIT impact for the full year.
And if you look at our financial statements you'll see that we -- I don't know that we break it out in detail but we had some very significant balance sheet remeasurement gains back in the third quarter.
That was on the order of $0.04 a share.
Those are not going to recur so that's a very very big piece of that $0.06.
And the rest of it would just be kind of the translation of our P&amp;L if you will.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything noteworthy about the pacing of earnings growth throughout the year? I think we would expect to see EPS relatively flat by quarter as we move through 2012.
There's a lot of moving parts on that.
And depending on the timing for advertising campaigns I just mentioned one for the first quarter here in the United States but also depending on the time for when we do new product launches where you might have heavier advertising that can fluctuate quite a bit from quarter-to-quarter.
But I think from an overall perspective as it stands now if you're doing your model building relatively flat EPS per quarter through the year would make sense.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Understand the damage control perspective for the mass media campaign but that's a bit of a deviation from your previous strategy.
Can you kind of talk through the thought process there? As you point out the moms who are concerned about the December media event will kind of be through the system by the third quarter why does it make sense to heavy up on the spending now? Tim it makes sense because as a consequence of misinformation misleading headlines and in our opinion some inappropriate actions a large number of parents were highly concerned by what they were hearing reading and seeing.
And as you know after our own testing and the testing of the FDA and CDC has confirmed that there was no risk from our products.
And market research data would show us that the trust in Enfamil has been diminished in the eyes of some consumers and we need to restore that quickly.
We've been in this business for 106 years.
We intend to be in it for another 100 years and we are going to spend whatever it takes to restore the trust in Mead Johnson and our products that we fully deserve and make sure that they understand our unwavering commitment to quality.
And when you see the TV advertising I think you'll see it's firmly focused on the fact that our products go through 2 300 quality checks and that we are the #1 brand recommended by pediatricians in the U.S.
and we think that's a very important message for our core U.S.
business.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to just kind of carping on the U.S.
but there is one thing I'm not exactly clear on.
Last year you kind of attributed your market share gains to both your new product’s success as well as the problems that Similac was experiencing.
But this year in terms of the 2012 outlook for the North American business it's really just been about the comps versus their recall and not really much in terms of new product efforts or success.
So I'm wondering if you could kind of talk a little bit more about that especially within the context of more advertising which you would think would help the new product success that you had last year and I assume into this year.
Yes.
Firstly let me reiterate that the additional advertising that we've now mentioned a couple of times is focused solely upon restoring trust among those consumers who were concerned by the headlines that they were reading.
And it's only going to run for a few weeks and then we will revert to our preplanned and existing demand creation programs which we already know to be effective and competitive.
The innovations that we launched in 2010 namely the patented Dual Blend Prebiotics Enfamil Newborn and the proprietary packaging system have been remarkably successful in the market and have contributed to our growth in 2011 as they will in 2012.
We would be confidently reporting our expectation of further share gains absent that year-on-year comparison with the Similac recall were it not for the December media issue.
While it is still early days as Pete said that issue is going to have a meaningful downward impact on our business in the United States.
You can imagine how we feel about that.
But we've got to be realistic and deal with it and we're going to deal with it with conviction now and spend what it takes to rebuild momentum as quickly as we possibly can.
And Eric just -- the other thing I would just add is if you recall in our last conference call after the end of the third quarter we had said that our market share was up about one full point versus where it was the prior year which was before the recall if you will before Abbott's recall.
We actually feel we maintained that or even gained against that in the fourth quarter of last year.
But on a full year basis and that's what we're talking about here because we're giving full year guidance we had somewhere between 2% to 2.5% market share gains in the first quarter or second quarter of 2010 versus the prior year.
So on average while we're still ahead of where we were prior to their recall on average you'll see a lower share in 2012 versus 2011 from that factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just follow up quickly.
I think Steve you mentioned an adult private label nutrition product.
I mean I realize it's very small in the grand scheme of things.
But it just seems like a strange product to produce given that it's got to be as you mentioned a much lower margin business.
Is that just because of excess capacity given the volume declines across the category in the U.S.? I think it's a very – it’s an understandable question and I think because we've only been a public company for 3 years you're unaware of a little bit of our history.
In early 2004 we divested the Boost adult nutritional product to Novartis which has subsequently been acquired by Nestlé.
We retained a significant manufacturing capability which we are now leveraging on private label contracts assuming that they make commercial sense.
It's limited in scale and I emphasize these are adult nutritional products.
We have no intention whatsoever of producing private label products for the pediatric nutrition category.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Want to discuss a little bit about China.
I think you said in your prepared comments -- well in the press release it says China was up something in excess of 40% for 2011.
And then Steve I think you gave some numbers and I think they translate that of that 40% 10 points of it comes from the underlying market and then the share gains would be the residual 30 percentage-plus points that then add up to the 40% growth within the market.
First if I have -- do I have that correct? You do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now what I'm really interested in understanding is what are the fundamental assumptions on share gains in 2012 in China? I think what you described was a segment average of mid-teens and that China would grow something north of that.
That leaves a lot to be -- a lot open right there given the 40% number in 2011.
So can you talk about what your expectations are for share gains? And kind of how do you arrive at those conclusions? Sure.
We're not going to give David as you might imagine specific numbers out there especially at this point in the year.
But if we grew -- if you sit back and look at just do some math when you look at the Asia/Latin America segment China accounted for about 45% of the total sales of that segment.
It grew at 40% last year.
30 of those points were coming from we believe from market share gains.
And we would expect to see growth in the high-single digits low-double digits again for the industry in 2012.
So I don't think we're really anticipating much change from that.
But all I would say is we would expect it to revert to something closer to maybe what we had prior to this year.
So you can sit back and do the math we're taking Asia/Latin America segment down from 22% to the mid-teens.
That could be 15% 16%.
And I think I've given you enough information to help take a look at it.
And remember we're just -- this is what our planning assumptions are for right now.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
One follow-up.
Maybe Steve you could just talk a little bit about how you achieved the share gains and maybe that would just provide a lot of insight on the business going forward.
Yes.
I mean I think we've been growing share consistently for a number of years built on the very strong brand proposition that resonates particularly well with Chinese consumers: our science our quality and our innovation.
And although it's less attractive to talk about it sort of executional excellence blocking and tackling across a highly complex continent and a growing number of cities.
That's fundamentally behind our competitiveness.
In 2011 we saw a particular boost if you like to that momentum coming from the various quality issues that local -- some local companies were suffering from some of the regulatory actions that the government took in order to address food safety concerns from the Japanese nuclear disaster which impacted the Japanese and some formula brands that are particularly strong in some areas of China and notably in Hong Kong.
So nothing particularly new to report David.
We continue to invest competitively.
A&amp;P roughly 20% of sales so there was no particular surge in our investment just the maintenance and a very high degree of commitment to executing at the highest standard.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at consensus expectations and also my own about the progression of quarterly earnings.
And it implies an extraordinary amount of EPS growth in fourth quarter.
I just want to know is there anything about how you phase your SG&amp;A or just your business that would hurt your ability to have a fourth quarter loaded kind of year some companies that we follow do.
Is that how you guys look at the phasing of earnings? Yes.
I mean and really that question Rob I think the reason that the gains would be seen in the fourth quarter is because the fourth quarter of 2011 was so low.
We did see a very significant drop in our EPS in the fourth quarter versus the third so it's $0.52 versus I believe $0.78 -- or $0.79 excuse me.
And that came from the timing of spending for advertising and promotion to some extent sales force adds et cetera.
It also came because of the impact of dairy costs in the fourth quarter the North America had really started to come through.
And it was also driven by the SAP implementation.
So we said in our third quarter call that we had roughly $13 million in sales above what we normally would have seen because of the SAP launch in Asia in October of last year.
And obviously that came out of the fourth quarter.
So you had a number of unusual items like that.
There can be quite a bit of volatility based on the timing of campaigns for advertising particularly in markets outside the U.S.
that can drive variability quarter-to-quarter.
But I do think too that when you're sitting back and reporting for this year we would expect that some of those should moderate significantly.
We would revert to a steadier profile.
But I don't think there's anything out of the ordinary if you will that would be considered repetitive for 2012 on a quarterly basis.
Maybe I can just add because you referenced other companies you follow.
I want to be clear that our sales don't have that volatility in them.
We would expect our sales to grow slightly quarter-to-quarter all other things being equal.
There's no particular seasonality in our business.
And I want to emphasize there are no changes in our practices from quarter-to-quarter particularly at the year end.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one follow-up.
I look at your Asia/LatAm segment quarterly and I try to grow it sequentially.
Because I look at it as a segment of your portfolio that keeps getting more and more consumers keeps getting more and more distribution on a sequential basis.
If this is -- it's dropped from third to fourth.
I know there's some onetime issues there.
From here though is there anything to indicate that it can't grow sequentially from here? No.
And the drop in the fourth quarter just for the record again is largely driven by the higher shipments in third quarter in advance of the SAP implementation.
The only other thing too I would mention Rob is we're talking about that excluding foreign exchange impacts which could be quite variable depending on what happens in the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First on the WIC contracts that I guess the one that you renewed or was renewed in California can you just talk at all about how competitive that process was? Or if there's been any change I guess in terms of the competitive dynamics in terms of the bidding and whether there's any change in your -- the economics of that for you? I understand the question.
You’ll understand that we're not allowed to speak about WIC pricing or pricing strategy for antitrust purposes.
I can however say that in a market that has declined as a consequence of lower births and lower consumption the WIC bidding process is very competitive.
We're delighted to have retained the California contract.
Research Division</strong> And then the 2 contracts the 2 states that you hold now that are still up for bid which ones are those? Louisiana and one of the consortia for Arkansas New Mexico and North Carolina.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when will those -- when will the decisions be made on those? They'll be made during the first half of this year but the contracts won't become effective until the beginning of the fourth quarter I believe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Pete just or Steve just in Brazil you touched on the growth rate there.
Could you just give us an update on where you stand today in terms of some of the metrics on market share penetration rates? I mean there's been very good growth in that market for you.
And just trying to understand where you stand in terms of your penetration rates.
Yes we're very excited about it but I'm glad you've given us the opportunity to calibrate expectations.
You probably know that we've been in the Brazilian market for several decades with a children's nutritional supplement under the brand Sustagen.
Because of the economic growth and because of the success of our strategies that business is growing in double digits and provides the foundations of our business in Brazil.
The infant formula category is at a very very early stage of development but it is growing rapidly.
In São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro Enfamil is the fastest-growing infant formula brand.
And in fact we've reached a double-digit market share in the areas that we -- where we are present but it is still a very small category.
So we're in the -- we're building not only the equity of our brand and our organizational capabilities but we are making the category.
And if you look at the demographics and you look at the economic projections for Brazil you can understand why we're very excited about the long-term prospects.
With that having run over our time I'm being given the signal that we should bring the Q&amp;A session to a close.
So on behalf of the management team thank you once again for your attendance on this call and for your engagement in our company and we look forward to seeing you all soon.
Thank you operator.
We'll finish the call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shikwana and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would Now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's first quarter conference call.
Speaking today will be Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer; and Kasper Jakobsen our recently-appointed Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that we are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time.
And I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As noted in our press release issued earlier today we delivered strong first quarter results.
Constant dollar sales growth of 9% was in line with our expectations.
The continued excellent performance in both Asia and Latin America was partially offset by an anticipated decline in the North America/Europe segment.
Non-GAAP earnings of $0.82 per share were up 8% from $0.76 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
Earnings increased due to sales growth a favorable foreign exchange comparison and a lower effective tax rate partially offset by lower gross margins and higher demand generation investments.
In the first quarter we completed the acquisition of an 80% equity interest in the SanCor Bebé infant formula and children's nutrition business.
This joint venture gives us the leading market share position in Argentina the third largest market in Latin America and a strong platform for growth throughout the Southern Cone of South America.
As stated in the past that after we completed the SAP implementation and the actions to achieve full standalone status we would have more resources available to consider business development growth opportunities to complement our compelling organic growth strategies.
Our business development focus will be on tuck-in deals like this one that allows to further strengthen growth with a primary focus on emerging markets.
Since Kasper will share our operating segment results shortly let me provide an update on our full-year guidance.
We continue to be very positive about our outlook for the year and expect our annual constant dollar sales growth to be in the range of 9% to 11% up from our previous guidance of 7% to 9%.
About 1.5 points of this increase is driven by the acquisition in Argentina with the remainder from modestly higher expectations for growth in our emerging markets.
We currently estimate that the non-GAAP EBIT margin as a percentage of sales will be at or slightly above the 23.6% level seen in 2011 with demand generation investments accelerating for the balance of the year.
For the full year non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.04 to $3.14 up $0.04 from our prior guidance.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper who assumed the role of chief operating officer for the company earlier this year.
I will return at the conclusion of our prepared remarks to wrap up and address your questions.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
I'll focus my comments on the operating performance and the expectations of our 2 segments.
Starting with Asia and Latin America first quarter sales for this segment grew 21% on a constant dollar basis versus the prior year with just over $700 million and now accounts for 71% of our global sales.
Absent the 2-week contribution from the Argentine joint venture following the closing in mid-March sales increased 20%.
Higher volumes were the key driver of our first quarter results adding 16% to our top line with pricing accounting for the remaining 5% of growth.
We will not talk in any detail about our specific plans in Asia and Latin America but we expect pricing will make a bigger contribution to sales growth in the near future when compared to that seen in recent quarters.
Our pricing actions often accompany pricing -- product innovations sorry which frequently have higher costs so this does not always translate into higher margins.
And we will carefully watch the impact of higher pricing on sales volumes.
Turning to some geographic detail sales growth in China/Hong Kong continued at rates above the segment average.
But as expected modestly below the very high rate of growth in the prior year.
Market share remains at levels above those seen in the first quarter of 2011 a sign of the strength of the Mead Johnson in infant brands in the world's largest market.
Strong double-digit growth was also seen in the majority of markets outside of China and Hong Kong In Southeast Asia we've seen solid results in the first quarter with stronger growth in Vietnam and Thailand.
Sales in Latin America grew at a strong pace led by Brazil and the Indian markets.
We've made good progress in building our infant formula business in Brazil over the last 2 years although the sales base remains quite small.
We've concentrated on the emerging premium category in pharmacies and focused our efforts on Rio de Janeiro São Paulo and recently Belo Horizonte.
As we expand we'll continue to invest in our infant formula business in Brazil over the next few years.
We're also excited about the potential of our new SanCor Bebé business in Argentina.
There are approximately 700 000 annual birth in-country about 1/3 the numbers are seen in Mexico with per capita GDP running at approximately the same level in both markets.
Yet infant formula and children's nutrition product consumption is about half the level seen in Mexico.
This disconnect indicates the growth potential of the Argentine market with consumption increases expected over time.
Our joint venture owns the market-leading SanCor Bebé and Bebé Plus [ph] brands.
The JV which is 80% owned by Mead Johnson as Steve mentioned will marry the product portfolio research and development and marketing expertise of Mead Johnson with the manufacturing distribution capabilities local market knowledge and market-leading position of SanCor.
We expect the joint venture to pursue growth in Argentina and serve as a base for further expansion in the Southern Cone markets.
Wrapping up the discussion on Asia and Latin America we expect annual sales growth to be in the upper-teens for the segment on a constant dollar basis compared to the mid-teen guidance previously provided.
The SanCor Bebé acquisition will add just over 2 points to full-year segment sales growth with existing markets accounting for the remainder of the improvement.
Turning now to the North America/Europe segment.
We recorded a sales decline of 11% on a constant dollar basis.
Volume was down 14% driven by the U.S.
market with pricing gains of 3%.
These results were largely as we expected back in January.
This is the toughest quarterly comparison we will face in 2012 with 3 key factors driving the volume decline.
Let me highlight each noting only the first quarter impact but how we see trends moving through the remainder of the year.
Firstly about half the shortfall was due to the one-time benefit that accrued to us in 2011 from a competitor's recall.
That benefit was most pronounced in the first quarter of last year.
It dropped off in the second quarter and had little impact once we had moved into the second half.
As a result of this factor we continued to impact our year-over-year comparison in the coming quarter but at a somewhat reduced level.
Secondly about 1/4 of the decline resulted from market share temporarily lost due to the misleading headlines and media reports in late December concerning several infant formula brands including Enfamil Newborn.
The FDA and CDC ultimately found no fault with our products but the uncertainty caused some parents to switch away from the Enfamil brand.
We launched a mass-market campaign in the first quarter to reassure all parents of the quality and safety of our brands and to remind them that Enfamil is the #1 brand recommended by U.S.
pediatricians.
The campaign has been successful.
And by the end of the quarter sales of our newborn product had recovered to pre-December levels.
We are confident of a share recovery as the December and January cohort of babies age out of the category during the third quarter.
Please do keep in mind that market share is however likely to fall further in the near term before recovering as many of the infants switched to other brands are now moving into heavier consumption periods.
As a result the unfavorable market share impact in the second quarter may be more pronounced than in the first.
Finally there is evidence that overall category volumes continue to fall.
The most recent CDC data from the first half of 2011 showed a continued 2% decline in the number of infants born in the U.S.
compared to the same period in 2010.
This is supported by a more recent available WIC participation data and is a sign that the birth rate has still not bottomed out.
Recent consumption has caused a further drop in category volume bringing the total volume decline to as high as 3%.
In summary the sales performance of the North America/Europe segment will improve as we move through the second half of the year.
On a full-year basis our sales guidance remains unchanged with a decline expected in the mid-single digits.
As many of you probably have noticed in our press release there was a significant drop in the North America/Europe segment profits in the first quarter versus the prior year.
This was largely expected.
Pete will explain this in more detail in a minute but a number of factors reduced gross profit most notably reduced our U.S.
non-WIC sales volumes which carry higher gross margins.
The lower sales volume led to reduced fixed cost absorption plus we saw the impact of significantly higher dairy costs.
Also note that the cost of the mass media campaign in the U.S.
reduced earnings.
Recognizing the importance of protecting EBIT margins in an environment of rising costs we've notified our U.S.
customers we are raising prices slightly more than 4% effective June 1.
This is in addition to the 4% increase taken last August.
We're not counting on the full benefit to flow through to earnings as retailer and consumer support may prove necessary in the near-term.
But we are committed to margin recovery and our earnings guidance for the year anticipates that.
So to wrap up I'm very pleased with how the year has begun with excellent growth from the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America and steady progress anticipated in the developed markets of North America and Europe.
Let me now turn the Pete -- turn the call over to Pete who will provide you with some further financial highlights.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
As a reminder I will focus my comments on our non-GAAP numbers.
Details on our GAAP results are provided in the press release and our 10-Q which will be filed later today.
Kasper detailed the key drivers of constant dollar sales growth but let me add a quick comment on the sales impact from foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange had practically no impact on our top line during the first quarter.
If current exchange rates hold we would expect the FX to also have limited impact on full-year sales.
I'll now concentrate my prepared remarks in profitability for the first quarter and key changes we expect to see as we move through the remainder of the year.
Our first quarter EBIT margin of 25.6% came in 100 basis points below the first quarter of 2011.
This was driven by a 230 basis point drop in gross margin partially offset by a 130 basis point reduction in operating expenses.
Gross margins stood at 62.1% and reflected a tougher commodity cost environment compared to the first quarter of last year when we delivered 64.4%.
Dairy prices included in our cost of goods sold were up 23% for the company versus the year-ago period.
The most significant impact was seen in North America where nonfat dry milk prices were up 32% while lactose and whey prices climbed by over 60%.
We have seen some moderation in nonfat dry milk as the warmer winter the U.S.
has increased milk supply.
That will start to provide some earnings benefit late in the year.
We don't expect to see any significant relief however with whey or lactose prices.
Importantly gross margins were 100 basis points higher than the 61.1% seen in the fourth quarter.
Asian dairy prices reflected in our cost of goods sold have moderated since peaking late last year.
And the increase in consolidated gross margins on a consecutive quarter basis is all attributed to our emerging markets.
As Kasper highlighted reduced fixed cost absorption from lower U.S.
sales and production volumes was one of the factors reducing gross margins in the first quarter.
It is important to note that some of the unfavorable manufacturing performance was related to the timing of maintenance outages in our U.S.
plants.
We usually shutdown these facilities in the fourth quarter of each year often during the holiday season around Thanksgiving and Christmas.
We delayed our regular fourth quarter 2010 maintenance outage due to strong demand from a competitor's recall with higher demand continuing through the first half of last year.
Instead we extended the normal planned outage for the fourth quarter of 2011 and saw unfavorable cost absorption as a result at that point.
The finished goods produced in the fourth quarter largely shipped to customers in the first quarter and shows up as higher cost of goods sold then.
Gross margins for both North America/Europe and the company will improve as we move into the second quarter.
And as non-WIC volumes in the U.S.
increase during the second half of the year once the unfavorable impact from the media issue winds down we will see even further improvement.
On a full-year basis we expect gross margin to be about 10 to 20 basis points lower than our prior guidance of 63%.
This reflects lower gross margins from the Argentine joint venture.
Remember SanCor will continue to manufacture products for the new company and will retain some manufacturing profit as a result.
Absent the acquisition gross margins would continue to center around 63% the same level as the prior year.
Higher commodity costs this year are offset by higher pricing and strong productivity initiatives.
The first quarter's operating expense of 36.5% was down by 130 basis points from 2011.
Let me explain a number of the key moving parts.
First we saw the elimination of shared service overlap cost now that our SAP technology platform is operational.
We are only using shared service resources from IBM and no longer from Bristol-Myers Squibb.
In addition we recognized significant foreign exchange balance sheet remeasurement losses in the first quarter of 2011 from U.S.
dollar denominated receivables held by our Dutch manufacturing plant.
Although still on a loss position this year these unfavorable foreign exchange impacts did not recur at the same level leading to a further reduction in operating expenses measured on a percent of sales basis.
These 2 benefits were partially offset by higher demand generation investments in advertising and promotion including the U.S.
media campaign that Kasper referenced along with incremental spending for our sales force and research and development.
On an annual basis we currently forecast operating expenses to be at or slightly above 39% but well above the 36.5% for the first quarter.
Most of the spending increase over the remainder of the year will focus on additional demand generation investments in Asia and Latin America.
Also you'll recall that we recognized $10 million in pension settlement losses in the fourth quarter of last year.
Since our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan is frozen if our annual lump-sum payout to retiring employees exceed the recognized pension expense accounting rules require us to accelerate the recognition of deferred losses from the plan.
We have seen an uptick in lump-sum payouts from longer service employees in recent months.
And we expect that the pension settlement expense will start to be recognized earlier this year potentially starting in the second quarter.
Turning to taxes the first quarter non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 27.5% down from 29.4% a year ago primarily due to a change in our geographic earnings mix.
We expect the ETR for the full year will fall in a range between 27.5% to 28%.
At the end of March we held cash and equivalents totaling $661 million down $180 million from December.
The Argentine acquisition accounted for about $106 million or 60% of the drop.
The total purchase price is set at ARS 851 million or about USD $196 million using the exchange rate at closing.
We paid ARS 473 million or USD $109 million in cash at closing.
Since the joint venture held about $3 million in cash this was recorded as a $106 million use of cash during the first quarter.
The remaining ARS 378 million or about USD $87 million is payable in 3 installments over the 12 months post closing with the final payment due upon receipt of Argentine regulatory approval of the acquisition.
The peso-denominated notes carry an interest rate of 14% per annum.
Although the interest rate is higher than what we would see in the U.S.
we chose this partial deferred payment to provide some near-term protection against the significant devaluation of the Argentine peso.
Further details on the financing will be included in the 10-Q filed later today.
We expect interest expense to run about $64 million for the full year including this new debt.
The other significant driver of the reduction in cash during the fourth quarter came from a $197 million increase in assets and liabilities.
You'll recall that we purchased an additional 6 months of key dairy inputs or $77 million for our Asian business in December to provide better price stability for 2012.
We consumed cash during the first quarter as we retired the payables from this prebuy.
Normal receivable builds on higher sales seasonal reductions in accrued expenses and the timing of income tax payments account for the majority of the remaining increase.
We will recover the majority of this cash outflow during the remainder of the year.
During the quarter our board of directors raised our quarterly cash dividend by over 15% to $0.30 per share.
We also purchased 220 000 shares of our stock at an average price of just over $78 per share returning an additional $17 million in cash to shareholders.
We estimate that capital spending for the year will total about $200 million versus our previous $220 million guidance.
This reflects a slight shift in timing for the new Singapore spray dryer and technology center.
The multi-year $300 million capital plan for the project remains unchanged.
Front-year [ph] depreciation and amortization expense was estimated at $83 million.
Before turning the call back to Steve let me summarize our latest outlook for the year.
We anticipate full year sales growth of 9% to 11% up from 7% to 9% in January about 1.5% comes from the Argentine acquisition with higher sales in Asia and Latin America driving the residual gains.
Asia and Latin America should grow sales in the upper-teens including the SanCor Bebé acquisition benefit and North America/Europe is expected to decline by the mid-single digits.
We expect non-GAAP EBIT margins as a percentage of sales to be at or slightly above the 23.6% reported in the prior year.
The interest expense of $64 million and an effective tax rate between 27.5% to 28% our non-GAAP EPS should be in the range of $3.04 to $3.14 per share.
With regard to the Argentine acquisition please note that we expect no EPS accretion in 2012.
Lower gross margins investments that we will make to grow the business and the incremental financing charges this year will result in breakeven performance from this transaction.
And finally we expect specified cost will total about $0.09 per share in 2012.
GAAP earnings should therefore be $2.95 to $3.05 per share.
With that let me turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
We're very pleased with our sales and earnings performance for the first quarter and our increased guidance reflects our optimism for the full year.
Importantly we are also continuing to make the investments necessary to ensure we deliver sustainable profitable growth over the long term.
We will now be happy to take your questions.
To give everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask one question and if necessary a clarifying followup.
We will then pass it along to the next person in the queue.
Operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger representing Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So you may have addressed this in generality already but I was hoping you could provide a quick update on the pricing environment in China and I ask because I've seen a few press reports earlier this month suggesting that you and possibly one of your competitors may have announced formal price increases to the trade.
Is that the case? And if so can you provide us with any sense of the magnitude and how this fits into both your pricing outlook in the larger context of competitive pricing actions in the market? Matthew this is Kasper.
I'll attempt to answer your question.
Yes we can confirm that we have taken pricing in China as has a few other competitors.
The price increase we've implemented in China is effective in this month in fact in April and is in support of the product innovation.
So though I don't want to be specific about the magnitude I would caution you to just recognize that we don't expect this to necessarily provide incremental earnings as we have accompanied the price increase with investment in our product quality.
We also are somewhat cautious about the volume impact of these price increases in China as we recognize the tough environment.
Research Division</strong> And can you clarify what the nature of the innovation was that was associated with the pricing? Yes it's a product improvement to our infant formula and Growing Up Milk product range.
We refer to it internally as the Smarties [ph] project.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron representing RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could maybe talk a little bit about the SanCor business? Just help me to get a sense of what you expect a ramp trajectory to look like just in Argentine in general? And then you can discuss how -- what that business is currently growing and then just with the process of converting a mainstream business to a premium business how long that takes and where do you expect to be in a couple of years? Yes I'll attempt to answer that.
I mean we are very excited about the acquisition of this majority stake in the SanCor Bebé business.
The brand is by far the leading brand in Argentina.
And as I commented in my opening remarks the Argentine market is a very substantial market with about 700 000 births a year.
Historically the business has grown at approximately 10% in volume and of course you're well aware of the inflationary pricing environment in Argentina.
So historically the business has sustained price increases in local currency of approximately 20%.
We don't see any reason we should not able to anticipate continuing to take price in line with inflation and we're excited about the opportunities for synergies as I outlined.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English representing Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Hi sorry it's Varun Gokarn in for Jason.
Just a broader question about how you approach expansion in Latin America what are some of the criteria you look at when deciding on bolt-on acquisitions there? You mentioned being potentially more acquisitive in the future and are there any particular geographies or capabilities that you will be focused on in the near-term? We already have a very strong business across Latin America.
And Argentina among the major markets was the exception which is why we're so excited by the SanCor Bebé acquisition.
All of these markets are experiencing strong growth driven by buoyant economies a growing middle class increased women's participation in the workforce and a growing recognition of the importance of early life nutrition which is seeing particularly strong growth in the premium segment of our categories across the region.
And you will recognize the 3 of our top 10 businesses Mexico Brazil and Peru are in Latin America.
But we also have businesses growing in double digits in Columbia Venezuela Ecuador and which is why we've said that we're confident of our Latin American business reaching $1 billion in revenue over the next 3 to 4 years.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick followup if I could.
There were some negative press headlines on product safety from one of your multinational competitors in China at the end of March.
I'm just wondering if you would see any short-term impact to movement in share that might have been caused by that? No...
None none that we can detect to date.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner representing Telsey Advisory Group.
Just thinking about the trajectory of the Asian dairy prices right now is there any interest in your part in kind of going further ahead with some of the forward purchases for the Asian milk requirements this year? Good question John.
I think it's something that our chief procurement officer and his staff continually look at.
There's no plans right now.
I think the prebuy that we completed in December turned out to be a very good economic decision by us.
But we will compare our market prices to what we're seeing from our own models internal models about the directions we think the market might be moving.
But at this point there is no additional purchases expected.
And just one more if I could.
Thinking maybe more conceptually about the market in China maybe from a longer-term perspective thinking about local dairy quality the supply chain.
You had the authorities cracking down on some of the illicit practices there now you have Fonterra going in raising its investment in local farming.
I mean over time as you expect the supply of local milk quality to increase do you view that as impacting the children nutrition market anyhow? Could that maybe narrow the perceived quality gap between multinational product local competitors? Is it a competitive threat? Is it an opportunity for you to source better quality product locally? How do you think about that market playing on the quality side? We have no intentions in the foreseeable future of changing our -- the sourcing of our dairy materials in particular in China.
We're aware of some of the initiatives that you outlined and we will sort of remain engaged.
But as I've said no plans in the foreseeable future and the perception among consumers that international brands and brands with raw material sourced from outside of China being superior we don't see that perception changing in the near-term.
The next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey representing D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I was struck by the sloppiness [ph] in the margin in North America/Europe obviously.
And I know you were spending money to defend the brand.
Can you talk a little bit about how that might evolve for the rest of the year as that business kind of renormalizes itself? Sure.
Tim this is Pete.
As we mentioned there were a number of factors that were really influencing the very low margins that we saw in North America/Europe in the first quarter.
A good portion of the gross margin decline was coming from the timing impact of planned shutdown.
The first quarter we saw the impact from our shutdown late last year.
We didn't have a shutdown late in 2010.
So I will say that we have some relatively strong confidence that gross margins will be increasing in the second quarter for that segment noticeably.
And as I've mentioned I think moving into the second half of the year you'll also see the benefit as we continue to ramp back up from the media scare in late December in terms of non-WIC market share.
And keep in mind the loss sales year-over-year really are coming from the non-WIC business which carries as Kasper mentioned very good solid gross margins.
In addition with the price increase that we announced that will take place in the end of the second quarter that as well will help some margin recovery.
So we're relatively confident that what you saw in the first quarter is somewhat short-term in duration.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen representing William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question on your views on the prospects for a recovery in the U.S.
birth rate anytime soon.
And then just a follow up on the reduced consumption in the U.S.
and whether you think that's also a function of kind of macro factors or if there's any kind of change going on in terms of how parents are approaching the category? I will attempt to answer that.
I think we've talked to this topic a number of times before.
And we've referenced an extensive amount of tracking that we've done of U.S.
birth trends and attempting to correlate that with various macroeconomic factors over the years.
And what we do know is that the birth rate is a lag indicator of primarily 2 things in the broader economy: economic growth and particularly growth in employment.
So to the degree that you see improvements in those 2 economic indicators I think with some time lag you will see an improvement in the U.S.
birth rate.
We've also said that we continue to remain very confident about the long-term potential of the U.S.
market which of course is a very large market for us and that we continue to make investments in the business consistent with that view of its long-term potential.
Research Division</strong> If I could just do a quick follow-up.
If and when we do see Kasper to your point a bottoming and eventual recovery will the recovery in demand that follows skew WIC or non-WIC or be relatively balanced in your opinion? I don't know that we have a good ability to predict exactly which part of the population will recover first or make the strongest recovery.
We got less ability to look back over long-time horizons to anticipate that.
I guess our expectations is that it will be fairly even.
Your next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst representing Wellington Shields.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is about Latin America.
And Steve you reiterated your $1 billion goal there but I'm wondering if -- but you also said that the SanCor Bebé acquisition boosted your near-term results.
Are you looking to reach $1 billion earlier? And/or are you looking for higher growth long-term than you had before in Latin America? We will certainly reach a $1 billion by 2015 which is consistent with previous statements.
And we will revise those as we gain experience in Argentina.
I think I've mentioned on several earnings calls that we're very proud of the fact that our Latin American business has grown in strong double digits every quarter since our IPO 3 years ago.
And we believe that the business in Argentina will grow at comparable rates.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow representing Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I seem to remember that Pete you had given guidance that foreign exchange will be a $0.06 headwind in 2012 and now on the top line anyway you're saying that there's really no headwind anymore.
Is there anything going on on the cost line for foreign exchange that's different? And then also I wanted to get a little more color on China.
Could you give us -- maybe you've given it but could you give us a growth rate for your business in China/Hong Kong and give us a sense if your market share trends continue to get better there or not? And is the category maybe picking up after a little bit of a slow down last year? Let me -- I'll let Pete address the effects part of your question and I'll just address the China/Hong Kong one by really repeating what we said in the prepared remarks that China/Hong Kong continued to grow at a rate above the segment average.
And I think we can also say that -- I think I also said that in the prepared remarks that our share position in the first quarter of 2012 was higher than it was in the same quarter of the year prior which was an indication of the continued strength of our business there.
We've talked to you extensively about our pride in our ability to execute in China and nothing has really changed in that picture.
Pete? Yes with regard to foreign exchange I think you're absolutely right Rob.
When we were giving guidance back in January we said that the sales impact from foreign exchange was going to be a decline of sales of about 1% and we're seeing it as being neutral now.
There's no financial benefit to our earnings that comes from a weaker dollar if you will slightly weaker dollar.
And it ties into the mix of currencies that we have and what's going on.
In fact most of that $0.06 degradation from foreign exchange was coming from these balance sheet remeasurement gains that we saw in the second half of 2011 in the absence of those.
But if anything I think foreign exchange was a slight negative to us in the first quarter because the dollar weakened against both the euro and the Mexican peso and we shift from both of those markets into either into Asia in the case of Europe or other Latin American Markets in the case of Mexico.
And we saw balance sheet remeasurement losses that had not been anticipated back in January.
Research Division</strong> And Kasper can I ask a follow up? I understand  you're not really giving us the category trends in China/Hong Kong.
But there was some comments last year about the category might be slowing a little bit.
Do you even -- do you -- what is your sense of confidence that those numbers are meaningful? Like it seems like everyone is reporting very strong numbers and was the Nielsen data helpful in that regard or not so helpful? Well I think that it's one of the sources of information that informs our understanding of the market.
And we are seeing a moderating of the growth rate in China.
It's not overly dramatic but certainly the market grew at a slightly slower rate in the first quarter.
Pete do you want to add to that? I'll just point out too if you look at the Nielsen data that actually did -- I mean the data that we look at would suggest that volume growth was pretty weak for the industry last year in the Chinese market.
It's hard though quite honestly to rely just on Nielsen too because this baby store channel we think has picked up a little bit of share and so it's very difficult for all of us to get a true sense of what's going on in the overall market.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll representing Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> This is Alexis Borden in for David this morning.
Quick question about kind of advertising and product promotion it looks like it increased 13% this quarter and how much was that kind of weighted towards the U.S.
business versus kind of like your emerging markets business? The vast majority of it was in the emerging markets business and it's the timing of some spending.
I would say that we did invest behind that U.S.
media campaign.
We spent about $7 million or $8 million on that in the U.S.
as well.
So that was one factor at work.
Research Division</strong> And was that necessarily -- not necessarily compared to last year how would you compare that year-over-year would you say? I'm sorry for which? For the U.S.? Research Division</strong> For the U.S.
was that higher? Because you said the majority of the increase was from kind of -- at the emerging -- with the 7% to 8% -- $7 million to $8 million excuse me kind of match -- it's how would you compare that to last year I guess? For North America/Europe advertising and promotion spending was not up by that full amount of $7 million or $8 million.
There is also samples that are included free samples that were given out in doctor's offices or sent to moms at home here in the U.S.
that was included in that and given lower births obviously that's down slightly.
Operator I think we have time for one more question.
You have a question from the line of Ed Aaron representing RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question on the kind of the pricing that was taken in China.
You sounded I guess a little bit cautious that there might be some volume impact from that.
But if the higher pricing is being driven by innovation I guess cautious do your volumes might sort of imply that the consumer wouldn't fully appreciate your innovation for whatever reasons.
So I guess what I'm trying to get a sense for is whether you think that the investments behind quality that you're making over there are going to be visible to the consumers to the point where they value your products more than what they did previously? Yes don't misinterpret it.
The comment on volume was about a relatively short-term impact if any.
And secondly we are very confident in the innovation we've launched in China and indeed over time we have seen that we have been able to take price increases in China without materially affecting demand for our product as long as it's supported by strong innovation which it is.
Operator with that we will close the call.
Thank you all for your continued interest in Mead Johnson.
We look forward to seeing you soon.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's second quarter conference call.
Speaking today will be Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Operating Officer and CEO-elect; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor Provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Current Report on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
To be respectful of your time I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As you've likely read in our press release Mead Johnson delivered sales growth of 11% on a constant dollar basis in the second quarter.
This was delivered by continued strong performance from the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America the benefit from our Argentine acquisition completed late in the first quarter and the improving comparison in our North America/Europe segment we saw flat sales versus the prior year excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Our recovery from the impact of the misleading U.S.
media reports of alleged product contamination last December is quite evident and we're confident that progress will continue in the second half of the year.
Non-GAAP earnings of $0.83 per share were up 15% from the $0.72 per share reported in the second quarter of 2011.
Earnings increased due to strong sales growth a favorable foreign exchange comparison lower administrative costs and a reduced tax rate.
These were partially offset by a lower gross margin due in large part to higher dairy cost in North America increased investments in advertising and promotion and the timing of pension settlement expenses.
While we are justifiably pleased with first half 2012 results we expect lower growth in the second half of the year due in part to a weak global economy.
With several European countries now in recession and the continued weak performance of the U.S.
economy economic growth and consumer spending in key exporting markets most notably China have slowed.
Consequently we're experiencing a reduction in the rate of category growth in China.
Despite this near-term softness we have continued high confidence for longer-term category growth in China supported by a rapidly growing middle class.
Kasper will go into more detail on market share trends in China but it's also clear we gave back some market share in the second quarter after exceptional gains over the last few years.
We believe this is a temporary phenomenon and our clear intent is to rebuild share growth in the second half of the year.
As we stated previously the market in China is highly competitive and we will inevitably see share fluctuations from time to time.
We have operated in China for almost 20 years and have seen and overcome bumps in the road in the past.
We're confident in our business model strategies and investments and we intend to continue to deliver compelling growth in China over the medium and longer term.
We currently anticipate full year global sales growth of 8% to 9% on a constant dollar basis down from the 9% to 11% guidance in our last call.
While our growth in China has slowed we continue to see strong performance across markets in Southeast Asia and Latin America and an improving position in the United States.
In absolute terms our projected sales growth in 2012 remains very strong.
We continue to expect non-GAAP earnings on a full year basis to range from $3.04 to $3.14 per share.
There are always a number of moving parts at work and 2012 is no exception.
A sustainable and lower tax rate coupled with favorable foreign exchange gain is expected to offset the impact of lower sales growth.
While maintaining our guidance for strong earnings growth we are of course mindful of greater risks in the current operating environment.
Nevertheless we will continue to increase investment behind the business given our high confidence in category growth and our proven strategies.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper who will provide more details on our operating performance.
And I will return at the conclusion of our prepared remarks to wrap up and address your questions.
Thank you Steve and Good morning everyone.
I'll review the operating results and future expectations by segment starting now with Asia and Latin America.
Second quarter sales grew 16% on a constant dollar basis versus prior year.
Excluding our joint venture with SanCor in Argentina sales were up 13% on a constant dollar basis.
As we indicated in our last conference call higher pricing contributed more significantly than in the recent half adding 9% to sales growth with 7% from volume.
Price increases were broad based across both Asia and Latin America.
The 13% organic growth rate was down from 20% in the first quarter.
Moderating growth in China was the key driver of this.
We've cautioned since last July that sales growth would not keep up with the rapid pace of 2011.
That is now evident.
We have seen both slowing category growth and a somewhat weaker market share during the second quarter.
Let me now address each factor separately.
At a recent investor conference in Paris Steve noted that industry growth was slowing in China.
Nielsen retail data shows that the first quarter growth rate for both the category and the premium segment in which we compete was cut in half versus the prior year.
The latest data would indicate that there has been no improvement in growth rates as we move through the second quarter.
While we recognize that growth in any emerging market can vary from period to period we remain confident in China's and our own long-term growth prospects.
The underlying dynamic that drive growth in our industry and our company remain unchanged.
Let me now address the topic of China market share.
It is not uncommon for shares to fluctuate period to period depending on the timing on competitor's relative price increases and on promotional activity.
Bearing in mind that Nielsen captures only about 1/3 of the Chinese retail market it appears our value share held relatively flat in the first quarter but declined between 1 and 1.5 points in the second quarter.
We attribute this to the timing of price increases and promotional activity.
As I mentioned in our last call we raised prices significantly in late April as we started to ship new product with higher expert recommended DHA levels.
Our pricing action was designed to cover 2 years of cost inflation as we did not increase prices in China during 2011.
My experience tells us that temporary swings in market share are not uncommon during a price transition of this magnitude.
Share often softens for a period of several months but pricing is ultimately absorbed by the market.
Importantly price increases at retail lacked those to distributors and ours did not become apparent to consumers until mid-May.
As a result we believe we may continue to see share pressure as we move through the third quarter but expect share to strengthen in the fourth quarter.
A very similar effect was seen most recently in 2008 when pricing was raised in response to significant increases in dairy costs.
We do believe the impact of our price increase was exacerbated somewhat by more aggressive competitor promotions in advance of upcoming relaunches and by the generally weaker economic climate which has adversely affected consumer spending.
At our Investor Day last October we detailed the low level of system inventories held by our distributors and retailers in China compared to our competition.
We believe this is important in maintaining price discipline in a market that is -- where it's not wholly uncommon for product to be bought and sold outside of normal channels by independent wholesalers.
In light of slowing growth for the category and recent softer market share we are determined to constrain sales for distributors as necessary to prevent any buildup of excess inventory.
This will affect the growth rate for the Asia/Latin America segment and the company in total during the third quarter in particular.
We expect to see a return to higher growth in China during the fourth quarter as our product innovation and pricing takes hold.
Our confidence is supported by the success of similar product upgrades launched late last year in both China and Hong Kong where we gain share as a consequence.
Turning to the rest of the segment.
Strong double-digit growth was seen across -- during the second quarter across the majority of markets in the rest of Asia and in Latin America.
In Southeast Asia we delivered significant growth in Vietnam and in the Philippines both markets where we have seen disappointing sales growth over the last 3 years.
Thailand our fifth largest market has seen growth accelerate despite problem at a third-party owned facility adversely affecting supply of ready-to-drink children's products.
This problem will slightly reduce second half sales growth but we expect to have the ready-to-drink supply fully restored before the end of the year.
Sales throughout Latin America were very strong.
Excluding the impact from the Argentine acquisition we posted constant dollar sales growth above the 13% organic growth rate for the segment as a whole.
The Argentine acquisition is being rapidly integrated and performing in line with expectation.
This further improves our growth outlook for Latin America.
Please note there was no earnings per share contribution in the second quarter from the joint venture as interest expense offset the profit contribution from operations.
Wrapping up the discussion in Asia and Latin America we expect 2012 annual sales growth to approach the mid-teens on a constant dollar basis.
While obviously lower than our earlier expectations for growth in the upper teens this is still a very strong performance and in line with growth delivered prior to the record setting pace of 2011.
But of course I would like to note that this is off a much higher sales base and in a challenging global economy.
Although we don't provide quarterly guidance I do want to mention one additional timing factor that will affect second half sales comparisons to the prior year.
We went live with SAP in Asia in October of 2011.
And customers built their inventories in advance of that transition.
As a result third quarter comparisons will be tougher than those seen in the second quarter.
Turning now to the North America/Europe segment.
We reported flat sales on a constant dollar basis.
This is a significant improvement compared to the 11% decline seen in the first quarter.
We continued to recover market share in the U.S.
and pricing for the segment was up 5%.
We gained in both North America and Europe.
Volumes were down by the same amount.
That drop can be almost entirely attributed to the U.S.
business.
The single largest factor for the comparative volume decline in the U.S.
was the temporary benefit seen in the first half of 2011 from a competitor's product recall in late 2010.
That factor is now largely behind us and will not affect sales comparisons in the third and fourth quarter of 2012.
Clearly the second factor driving lower volumes was a share decline caused by the December 2011 media headline.
In our last call I mentioned the sales for the newborn SKU had recovered to pre-event levels.
A newborn product had been directly associated with the misleading report and is used by infant under 3 months of age.
Further progress has been made in the second quarter.
Market share among 3-month-old infants is now slightly above the level seen in the first quarter of last year.
That's particularly good news by second half comparison because these infants will be aging into a heavier consumption period giving us confidence in a complete recovery.
On a full year basis we expect North America and Europe sales to be down in the low- to mid-single digits a bit better than our earlier guidance.
This reflects slightly higher market share expectations in the U.S.
in the second half of the year.
To wrap up I'm pleased with the continued growth in the second quarter from the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America and with a stronger recovery in the U.S.
We have seen slower growth in China versus 2011 not only from the category but also from share pressure in the recent quarter.
Our businesses weathered certain -- uncertainties in the past.
Our strong brand equity product innovation and our proven sales strategies give us confidence in our ability to restore share and to continue to prosper in this important market.
I'll also remind you of our significant presence in Southeast Asia and Latin America.
Both south [ph] regions are performing well and contribute together.
Sales were an excess of the China-Hong Kong market.
We have increased demand generating investment spending throughout our global portfolio and we are committed to continuing these investments growth through the remainder of the year.
Let me now turn the call over to Pete who will provide you with further financial highlights.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
All my comments will focus on our non-GAAP results.
Kasper detailed our constant dollar sales trend so I will concentrate on foreign exchange impact.
During the quarter the dollar strengthened against the euro and the Australian dollar and also against 2 key currencies in Latin America Brazilian real and the Mexican peso.
But that impact was mitigated in small parts as the dollar weakened slightly across Asia where we generate half of our sales.
Overall a stronger dollar reduced sales by about 2% in the second quarter.
We expect full year sales to be reduced by about 1% from foreign exchange if current exchange rates are maintained.
Despite an unfavorable sales impact there was no translation impact in our bottom line in the quarter.
Remember we source products for Asia in large parts from our plant in The Netherland and also from a third-party supplier in Australia.
As we have limited sales in Europe and none in Australia we have a short position with both currencies driving a noticeable cost benefit when the dollar strengthened.
This helps to offset the unfavorable foreign exchange impact on sales.
As I mentioned at our Investor Day last year we also get some protection from the remeasurement of dollar-denominated balance sheet account in our overseas subsidy areas when the dollar strengthened.
That occurred in the second quarter when we saw remeasurements gains of about $0.04 per share.
Note that if the U.S.
dollar were to weaken in the second half against the euro or Aussie dollar these remeasurement gains could reverse in whole or in part.
EBIT margins of 25.2% of sales came in 70 basis points ahead of the second quarter of 2011.
Driven by a 150-basis-point decline in gross margins more than offset by a 220-basis-point reduction in operating expenses.
If you look at segment EBIT margin you'll see that we delivered 34.2% for Asia and Latin America the same level as the prior year.
And we reported a big improvement for North America/Europe compared to the prior quarter.
EBIT margins in North America/Europe were 23.5% in the second quarter basically double the 11.8% seen in the first quarter.
We expect additional progress in the second half as our non-WIC market share recovers in the U.S.
Gross margins were 63.2% down from 64.7% last year.
The decline is completely attributed to the North America/Europe segment where we are facing significantly higher dairy costs in the prior year.
Also lower production volumes in the U.S.
drove unfavorable fixed cost absorption with higher pricing and good productivity gains providing some offset.
Please note that the pricing gains in our emerging markets often accompany increased product innovation and as a result do not necessarily translate into higher gross margins.
As we have moved through 2012 there has been a continued decline in stock prices for most dairy raw materials.
Given that there is a 7-month lag on average between stock pricing and our cost of goods sold any recent trends will not have a meaningful impact this year.
And the one exception to weaker commodity prices has been lactose which accounts for about 10% of our total dairy buy.
Lactose prices are up over 60% versus last year.
They have continued to rise in 2012 partially reducing the benefit from other dairy inputs.
While we expect to see some benefit from lower dairy costs as we enter 2013 it is quite premature to expect that benefit would continue indefinitely next year.
For example drought conditions in the U.S.
are already driving up global grain prices.
This will result in higher feed costs and will also increase agricultural oil prices for us as well.
Ultimately dairy costs may rise as a consequence.
On a full year basis we expect gross margins to come in around 62.6% a 20 or so basis point decline from our prior guidance.
Since China carries higher gross margins we see an unfavorable mix impact with softer growth in that market.
Also note that the decline versus the 63% gross margins in 2011 is affected by the Argentine acquisition as I stated in our last call.
SanCor will manufacture products for the JV and will retain some manufacturing profit as a result.
Operating expenses of 38% of sales were down by 220 basis points in the second quarter when compared with 40.3% in the prior year.
We will note this was not driven by any reduction in demand generation spending.
Advertising and promotion expenses increased by 50 basis points to 14.7% of sales compared to the prior year.
And if you look at sequential operating expenses apply the balance sheet remeasurement gains and pension settlement expenses spending actually grew by $33 million or about 10% in the second quarter versus the first quarter.
The drop in operating expenses on a percentage of sales basis was largely driven by lower general and administrative costs coupled with a translation effect from the stronger dollar.
G&amp;A fell due to the elimination of shared service overlap cost seen last year before we completed the SAP installation and lower incentive compensation accruals.
I already mentioned the balance sheet remeasurement gains of about $0.04 in the second quarter.
This was offset in large part by the timing of pension settlement expenses which came in about $0.03 per share.
Both items appear in other expenses and income on our earnings statement.
Pension settlement expenses are triggered under accounting rules for our frozen defined benefit pension plan when lump-sum payments exceed annual pension expense forcing the immediate amortization of any deferred expenses for those retirees.
Last year the expenses were triggered in the fourth quarter.
This year it hit earlier due to the low interest rate environment which employees will consider in determining the timing of their retirement.
Low interest rate obviously drive a higher lump-sum payout.
On a full year basis we expect operating expenses measured as a percent of sales to center around 38.8% a slight reduction versus spending noted in our last call.
Again demand generation expenses measured in dollars is not being reduced from current levels in light of slightly slower projected sales growth.
That would cause operating expenses to increase on a percentage of sales basis but the effect is more than offset by favorable foreign exchange impact.
And we're seeing slightly greater reductions in G&amp;A expenses than previously thought.
Turning to taxes.
Our effective tax rate or ETR for the second quarter came in at 25.8% bringing our first half rate to 26.6% down from 29.7% in the first 6 months of last year.
On our full year basis we now expect an ETR between 26% and 27%.
Our prior guidance assumed a tax rate between 27.5% and 28%.
The expected decline reflects a number of factors including a favorable geographic mix and higher manufacturing incentives.
More importantly we expect to sustain the lower rate in 2013 with potential for further reductions beyond.
Our cash balance at the end of June was $787 million up $127 million from March.
Capital spending consumed $50 million in cash during the first half of 2012 but is expected to pick up significantly in the second half as construction is now underway in Singapore for our new spray dryer.
This facility will allow us to more efficiently meet growing long-term demand in Asia.
Full year capital spending remains unchanged at $200 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is estimated at about $80 million for the year.
We repurchased 330 000 shares of stock in the second quarter bringing our year-to-date buyback to 550 000 shares consuming $44 million of cash.
The principal objective of our repurchase program is to offset the impact of dilution from employee equity reward.
But we can and will be opportunistic around the timing of any buybacks.
Our strong cash flow allows us to aggressively invest in our business while returning capital to shareholders through a healthy dividend payout and share repurchase program.
And for those who pay attention to book equity you'll note that we ended the second quarter with our first positive balance of $2 million.
That's a $900-million improvement from the deficit seen following our IPO just over 3 years ago.
Pulling all the numbers together 2012 sales are expected to grow between 8% and 9% in constant dollars compared to the 9% to 11% in our last conference call.
Constant dollar sales growth for Asia and Latin America is now expected to approach the mid-teens but the North America/Europe segment is expected to be down in the low- to mid-single digits.
Currency impact will reduce reported growth by about 1% versus the prior year.
Growth rates in the third quarter for Asia/Latin America will be down notably versus the second quarter for several reasons including the need to manage distributor's inventory tightly in light of slowing growth in China.
In addition net quarter sales comparisons for the segment will be unfavorably impacted by the timing from last year's SAP launch in Asia and supply shortfalls for our ready-to-drink product in Thailand.
A healthier growth profile will return as we improve share in the fourth quarter.
We estimate the decline in full year sales growth would reduce earnings about $0.10 per share using the midpoint of our guidance.
But we are maintaining our full year earnings estimate in a range between $3.04 to $3.14 per share.
Softer growth is offset by a number of factors.
First we saw balance sheet remeasurement gains of $0.04 per share in the second quarter.
Although there is some risk the volatile situation in Europe has seen some of this reversed in the second half.
A lower effective tax rate is the second factor.
An ETR of 26.5% again using the midpoint of our range will generate $0.05 and higher earnings versus our prior guidance.
And additional G&amp;A reductions add another $0.01 or so to the bottom line.
With that let me turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
To conclude despite near-term challenges we remain on track to deliver the strongest earnings performance in our history with excellent emerging market sales growth.
We remain confident in our strategies and our business model as well as the continued category growth projections over the next several years and are increasing our investment to drive sustainable high performance.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Goldman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> To what extent are you surprised by the degree of the China slowdown in the category? I'm asking because infant formula is generally considered pretty a stable item.
So are you just seeing fewer people entering the category as the middle class slows maybe? Or are some people actually exiting the category who previously were in it even if only temporarily? I'm just curious because if it's the latter that might suggest the product is maybe less of a staple than perhaps we believe in that country? Or is that not even the right way to think about it? Ken this is Kasper.
Thanks very much for your question.
It's an excellent question of course.
As you know probably even better than I do GDP growth in China has slowed from above 8% to 7.5% or so and this may cause a temporary slowdown in our industry as well.
Because the children's business is more discretionary we believe this segment of the category has slowed more than the infant category.
Although this may raise some short-term concerns the outlook for the middle class is expected to continue to expand and this certainly reinforces our belief in the long-term potential of the category.
In other words we remain very confident about the potential for the China business to be a much larger business in the long term.
But we recognize that there are going to be periods of weaker growth as we move through that -- through those years.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing people exit the category? Or is it fewer people entering? I think it's a slowdown in -- a temporary slowdown in the number of people entering the category as a function of the economic slowdown.
And that's backed up Ken by the fact that the market share decline is much more noticeable in later-stage formulas and the children's nutrition categories as opposed to infant formula.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Have you thought about lowering price promoting more taking some actions to preserve some volume in that -- in the children's category? Or is that not on the table right now? As you can imagine we've -- I think I mentioned in the sort of prepared remarks that we feel very confident in the strategies that we have tested over many years in our category.
We sort of understand what drives demand in this category and how it works.
And we obviously are considering a whole range of options.
But we are not panicking based on what we are seeing.
We've seen these kinds of temporary fluctuations in market share before as relative pricing adjusts in the market and we don't believe this is any different.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one.
To what extent -- I mean given the GDP drop or deceleration is this what you expected? Or is the deceleration in the category a greater deceleration than you might have expected? Because China is still growing pretty quickly but if you're category gross was cut in half that seems like a pretty extreme number.
And I'm sure -- I'm just curious if this caught you guys offguard and I'm not trying to be critical.
I'm just curious if it was more or less than what may you have expected.
Well I think it depends on what point in time you're talking about.
If you look at the Nielsen data quarter-to-quarter you can see it bounce around.
So we -- honestly now in hindsight the category in total has grown at a 7% rate literally from the fourth quarter of last year through today.
So we've got 9 months of that and it's very difficult sitting in -- sitting here in January for example to say that that was going to be the case.
I think it's a bit softer than what we had expected 3 months ago.
We would have expected it to be a little bit higher.
So that is one of the factors that's driving us to reduce our top line sales growth and the market share is the other piece of it.
Our next question come from Ed Aaron RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the prepared remarks you mentioned kind of 2008 is maybe a comparable period where you saw a temporary share drop followed by a recovery after you took some price.
How similar are the competitive dynamics today when you kind of consider any differences in how your competitors are behaving now versus then and also that the melamine crisis was a factor back then as well? There's never a -- as one searches back in history in these situations there's never a perfect example of -- that matches the current circumstances.
But we believe it's a pretty good indicator.
And it is very common to see some setback in volume when you make these kinds of adjustments.
I guess what is different is that the slowdown in China's general economy is obviously a unique factor that is prevalent now and was not present in 2008.
And I would add to that Ed that -- but first of all you mentioned melamine.
That really was -- that happened after the price increase.
The price increases we took were more in the first half of 2008 and it was in response to the dairy prices nearly doubling late 2007 early 2008.
So it was more likely that our competitors were probably increasing price at that point in time.
The other factor you compared to it right now and we held off last year from the price increase as Kasper mentioned.
And there's other competitor factors out there were discounting or promotional activity is at a relatively high level particularly in advanced system product launches or relaunches that are going to happen by our competitors.
So the dynamic is a little bit difficult -- more difficult I'd say today than probably in that period.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a quick follow-up I just wanted to see if could maybe push for a quantification of the constant dollar growth that you expect in Q3 on a total company basis.
We don't give quarterly guidance but just if you do some simple math take the midpoint of our sales guidance range which is 8.5%.
Then compare it to the midpoint of the prior guidance to 1.5% decline in sales growth rate so very significant growth for the company.
You know that 1.5% equates to $55 million.
And what I would tell you is that a good piece of that should come through in the third quarter.
And layer on top of it the SAP impact that I mentioned and the situation in Thailand which is temporary and you can come up with an estimate.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 follow-ups on China.
When you look across the scope of the market we've obviously heard from other consumer companies that the slowdown in other consumer categories has been somewhat concentrated in larger coastal Tier 1 cities a bit less of an impact in Tier 2 Tier 3.
Is that consistent with how your business is performing? Are you seeing any shift from growth in new versus existing markets? And then one sort of longer-term question even as recently as January I think when you were looking at the outlook you referred back to the growth you saw during 2008 to 2010 sort of more in the lines of mid-20s to 30% growth as sort of a benchmark looking forward.
Can you give us any sense of what you see as a level of sustainable sales growth in China once we get beyond the macro issues and the competitive issues we're facing now? Matthew this is Kasper.
Thanks very much for the question.
I don't think as we look at our data we would see enough of a difference between different tiers and different regions to try and characterize by region or by size or city the slowdown in the category.
I mean there are differences as there always are when you look at statistics and break them up but I would be very cautious about trying to characterize that.
And I do want to just mention that our business in Hong Kong continues to perform very very strongly indeed and so therefore I'm a bit shy of jumping on characterizing it the way that you just did in terms of the coastal areas and the big cities.
We don't give sales guidance as you know by country or by quarter so I don't know that we want to get drawn into speculating about what the long-term sustainable growth rate is in any particular market we participate in.
I'll let Pete comment if you'd like to add anything.
There is nothing that we see that would give us pause in terms of expecting very solid and meaningful growth out of China in the longer term.
Many of you were looking at the Nielsen data which would show a volume decline in China last year.
I would point out that when you consider what the growth at is seen in the Hong Kong market and most of that growth is going across the boarder into Southern China we believe there wasn't really any meaningful volume decline and maybe a slight increase number one.
And number two the thing I would refer you to support that thesis that we have is when you consider the consumption per infant for formula and for children's growing-up milk China is at roughly 1/3 the level of the developed markets of North America and Europe.
And we do think there should be both meaningful volume growth over time as well as price growth that we would drive from innovation.
This is Steve.
Without wishing to labor the point I think this is so important.
I will add and reiterate that I fully understand why people at a macroeconomic level are concerned by the slowdown in China but we are talking about 7.5% GDP growth and people by and large believe that will pick up again through next year.
Secondly we've been in this market for 20 years.
We've built a leadership position with the market share of around 15%.
We're talking about small fluctuations in the great scheme of time from that.
And I think the fundamental demographics of the China market are incredibly compelling.
Most statisticians believe that the middle class will almost triple in size in the next 20 years.
And even if only one baby is born into each middle class family that is significant category growth.
There is also rumors as Pete said to drive consumption for infant.
There's pricing potential and of course there's potential for us to grow share as we've done significantly in recent years.
And we have great confidence in our science in our quality and our business model.
So I -- we're humble about our current experience so we understand your concern but you've got to put it into perspective.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question Steve when you made your presentation at our conference in Paris you highlighted that the overall category growth expectations from 2012 to 2017 I actually think you raised those a little bit.
But at the same time you must have known that China was decelerating a bit.
So maybe you can just kind of talk a little bit to the -- that global CAGR and why you still have comfort that that was actually increased.
Thanks Eric.
We were using ERC data which we've done consistently over the last 3 years.
We believe it's the best source of global category data.
And what I showed in Paris Eric was a slight slowdown in percentage terms for the category to 7.5% over the next 5 years and I of course described our ambition to grow ahead of that.
I think what you may be remembering is the -- that in absolute dollars of course as the category will get bigger then the growth becomes greater even though the percentage might slow little.
Now you're right to say that ERC put those estimates together some time back and I dare say they are now looking at Nielsen data in China and their own data sources and we may see some modest revisions downwards in the short term.
But I reiterate I don't see any fundamental change in that outlook.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up Pete I think you mentioned some of the factors that would offset the roughly $0.10 impact from the revenue shortfall.
But you -- I don't think you mentioned an improvement in the U.S.
market.
Are you factoring that in at all? Or is that just kind of -- you're still -- that's coming in line with your expectation so there is no change on that side? No we factored that in as well.
What I said was the net impact of slower growth and re-depth [ph] from the company's perspective with a bit softer growth in China offset by a bit higher expectations for the United States.
That was $0.10 so it was incorporated in that.
Our next question comes from Jason English Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Shifting gears.
Latin America.
The growth sounds like it's pretty impressive.
You're gaining momentum there.
Can you talk to us or help us quantify the margin differential between Latin American and China? Sure.
I think it's definitely lower in Latin America than it is in China.
As we've said in the past China has some of the highest prices we see in a global basis some of that being driven by a very favorable foreign exchange rate with the dollar weakening.
But -- and obviously the cost of labor is lower than what we see in many markets in Latin America.
I will tell you there just isn't a supply of sales reps sometimes in some markets like Brazil so our labor costs tend to be a bit higher and we tend to see slightly lower gross margins as well.
So it is a bit lower but I don't want to -- we don't quantify it by segment.
No I can perhaps add Jason that if we look at the gross margin in our Latin American business they are not materially different from our global average.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Steve Kasper can you just quantify for us what Mead Johnson sales growth was in China during the quarter? We don't give country information.
Just take a look at what Kasper said which was the segment growth on an organic basis went from 20% in Q1 to 13% in Q2.
I will say it was very meaningful and double digit in China/Hong Kong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to follow up here you made the very interesting comments about how the share progresses over the year.
I want to understand a little bit more about your fourth quarter commentary.
Basically how can you be sure about increasing share in the fourth quarter? And then one point that may sound like a detail but I think it's a bigger point is this a year-over-year comment or a sequential comment? And then let me just finish off with one other thought so you can see where I'm coming from.
So it sounds like you think that this is a consumer acceptance issue on your new pricing scheme.
However if competitor pricing activity i.e.
higher promotion hurt you in the quarter then it would sound like the category has gotten more price sensitive and versus many conversations that we've had in the past this seems like a fairly considerable change where past trends were definitively in China towards the premium category.
Consumers were running away from those lower-priced products straight into your arms in the premium end and so all of the commentary would seemingly suggest a fundamental change to how the consumer's behaving versus how they previously did.
And then that would make the fourth quarter commentary that much more difficult to really get your arms around on the outside gear why its so logical that market shares should improve.
Those are excellent questions and you've asked several.
I'll try to address them as best as I can and Kasper and Pete will jump in.
So in the current economic climate in China you're hearing many companies talk about lower confidence in -- among consumers and lower spending and we are clearly not immune to that.
Generally our category's less price elastic compared to other companies in food and beverage category and I believe that's still the case.
Although more than half of our business across Asia and Latin America and in China is in the discretionary children's category for children of above 1 year of age over 90% of the market is now at premium prices.
So the pricing sensitivity and promotional sensitivity we referred to is not trading between the low and premium-priced segment.
It's trading within the premium segment.
As we took pricing coinciding it with innovation but as competitors prepared for their own relaunches and promoted back their prices those relaunches are happening now and in the next several weeks.
We have confidence in the fourth quarter.
You're right that we're talking about sequential share.
So we're talking about an improvement from where we are today a market improvement.
We're confident because we have a lot of experience of how long it takes for pricing to adjust.
We know what our competitors' strategies are.
We know how impactful the Smarties [ph] relaunch has been in Thailand and Hong Kong.
We are -- we only have one business and China is our largest business.
So you can imagine how determined we are how focused we are on addressing this bump in the road.
And I have every confidence that the people and the investments that we're putting into this will have an impact David.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one final question for Pete.
Did -- I apologize if you said it Pete.
But did you quantify what you the effect of the volume pre-buy was on your China business.
I believe that occurred last quarter so there would have been some kind of detrimental effect on volumes in the second quarter.
The volume pre-buy with regard to dairy raw material? Are you asking with regards to...
Research Division</strong> No.
Pete I thought that you announced the price increase in China and that in the first quarter your volumes in China benefited as customers bought product ahead of the implementation of the price increase and that would have a second quarter effect as you would have lower volumes because they already bought some.
Oh I understand.
Yes basically the question is do we see any pantry loading prior to the price increase getting out.
It's very difficult to say if we've seen that or not.
It's -- we don't think there was a material impact from that factor going on.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of points of clarification I guess.
First in the Asia/Latin America segment for the quarter sales growth x SanCor was up 13%.
How much -- how did that affect the volume price mix split? Was SanCor all volume? Or did it also -- would it also have an effect on the price mix? Yes.
It's a good question Bryan.
If you look at -- we reported 7% volume growth for Asia/Latin America.
It would have all been volume.
And when you do the math SanCor accounted for about 1/3 of that 7%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think in the first quarter you'd commented that China was up about 20% volume in the first quarter.
So do you have a volume figure for China for 1Q? We don't give that.
What Kasper indicated was that our price increase became effective in April earlier in the second quarter.
So most of what we would have seen in China/Hong Kong would have been pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look at the third quarter the -- I just want to make sure I'm clear on this point.
The constraining or restricting distributor inventories in China its not that they're carrying too much inventory.
It's not that there's a -- there's like been a build up of inventories.
It's just that you're trying to actually have them carry less inventory.
Is that right? Meaning less that they normally would have.
No.
I think we are absolutely determined to make sure they carry no more than they normally have.
As the category has slowed down and as our share softened slightly we obviously want to be absolutely sure that we don't sell in an amount of inventory that would cause them to exceed normal levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last point...
Sorry.
To add to that Bryan but the -- I think we've taken a great amount of pride on keeping our inventory levels very tight.
We believe that's really essential for both ensuring some kind of order in terms of pricing in the market and we also just believe that it's good business discipline.
We're not going to stray away from that philosophy in order deliver result in individual quarters.
I mean what we are focused on is running this business for the long-term good of the shareholders.
We'll -- and we need to stick to that.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last question given the -- there's a bit of -- there's a bump in the road.
Is there any possibility that you'll increase your demand generation spending in China/Hong Kong whether that's more marketing or merchandising or maybe being sharper on promotional price points? Is that an option that you have as you watch the situation evolve to actually increase your demand spending? It's certainly an option that we have.
We do believe that we are spending competitively and that we are in obviously kind of being such a fantastic growth opportunity for us.
We are investing very aggressively in that market.
We're not changing that stance materially but it goes without saying that in a global portfolio and within a business of our size we are constantly reassessing whether or not our resource allocation across geographies or across market is the right one.
I don't know if that answers the question.
We certainly have the ability to do it but we are very happy with our investment levels also.
I think as I wrap up the call I'll just remind we've been public company for 3 years.
We've been talking to you on these quarterly calls for 3 years.
I'm -- I would encourage you to go back to some of the calls we had in 2009 2010 and contrast the growth that we're delivering and guiding you towards now.
And you'll see a very favorable comparison and you'll hear us talk about similar bumps in the road.
And our track record of overcoming them is impeccable.
So with that I will thank you once again for your attention your engagement and we look forward to seeing you all soon.
Thank you operator.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's third quarter conference call.
Speaking today will be Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Operating Officer and designated CEO-elect; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and current report on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that you are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning.
As you've likely read in our press release Mead Johnson delivered sales growth of 1% on a constant-dollar basis in the third quarter.
As described in our last conference call we expected a low rate of growth in the quarter.
There were 3 key factors that we said would impact our results.
First we described the loss of market share in China and the actions that we would take as a result.
Second we reminded you of higher sales in the third quarter of 2011 attributed to retailer purchases in advance of our Asia SAP implementation.
And third we stated that there would be lower sales in the second half of 2012 of our ready-to-drink children's product in Thailand resulting from a temporary supply disruption.
Since China is the most significant of these 3 factors let me offer a few brief comments on that important market.
We attribute a significant part of the China market share loss to a double-digit price increase that accompanied the second quarter launch of a product upgrade raising DHA to expert-recommended levels in our children's products.
Our pricing action was designed to cover 2 years of cost inflation as we did not increase prices in China during 2011.
Typically with a price increase of this magnitude we will see a temporary drop in market share but the impact was exacerbated by more aggressive price promotions by competitors.
As a result of lower-than-anticipated share and slower category growth in the food and baby store channels our distributor inventory have grown.
Consequently we worked with these distributors and constrained sales to levels below retail demand in the third quarter.
While lower market share and distributor inventory reductions in China obviously impacted our sales growth we are very pleased with the progress on both fronts with further improvements expected in the fourth quarter.
Kasper will provide a more detailed update shortly.
Turning back to our financial results the reported 1% growth in constant-dollar sales does not provide a full understanding of our underlying performance.
When you exclude the impact from distributor inventory reductions in China eliminate last year's benefit from higher shipments to customers in advance of our Asia SAP launch as well as the impact from the Thai supply disruption sales growth for the company in the third quarter would have approached 6.5%.
Beyond China we once again delivered strong double-digit sales growth in the emerging markets of Southeast Asia and Latin America.
One particular highlight was the exceptional organic growth in Latin America complemented by the strong performance of our recently acquired business in Argentina.
Sales in the developed markets of North America and Europe saw a 4% decline with tougher comparisons in Europe following our distribution model change in 2011.
Our U.S.
market share continues to improve but category sales year-over-year have been influenced by a decline in infant formula consumption and slightly lower births.
Non-GAAP earnings of $0.71 per share were down 9% from the $0.78 per share reported in the third quarter of 2011.
Earnings were lower from an unfavorable foreign exchange comparison heavier investments in advertising and promotion along with the timing of pension settlement expense.
These were partially offset by lower general and administrative costs and a lower effective tax rate reflecting in part a sustainable rate reduction compared to 2011 as well as a nonrecurring benefit arising from factors associated with prior year's earnings.
When we entered 2012 we indicated that we would make larger demand-generation investments and have done so.
A&amp;P spending was 15.1% of sales in the third quarter and stands at 14.2% of sales on a year-to-date basis up from 13.5% in 2011.
We plan to continue to increase our investments in demand creation given our strong belief in the sustainable growth of the business despite short-term challenges and lower growth in the second half of this year.
Turning to our full year outlook we will have another challenging comparison in the fourth quarter.
Despite the expected further recovery in China market share and the resulting improvements in sales growth rates for the Asia/Latin America segment and the company compared to the third quarter we will continue to work with our Chinese distributors to further reduce their inventory.
We remain committed to entering 2013 with the China inventories at a reduced and appropriate level well below the industry average to support the business moving forward.
We now anticipate reporting full year global sales growth in a range from 6% to 7% on a constant-dollar basis.
When compared to our prior guidance the decline in sales growth is largely attributed to China.
Since we have delivered 7% global sales growth on a year-to-date basis the midpoint of our full year sales guidance implies that the growth rate in the fourth quarter was still below the full year average due to the actions I have described to further reduce distributor inventories in China.
Nevertheless we project improving end market sales in the fourth quarter and growth will be higher than the third quarter as we continue to make progress recovering market share in China.
We expect non-GAAP earnings on a full year basis to be in the range of $3.02 to $3.07 per share.
Pete will go into more detail shortly but reduced sales growth is the biggest contributor to the change in our estimates.
It should be noted that the midpoint of this range is consistent with our original guidance in January with volatility in China accountable for changes issued.
I'll now turn the call over to Kasper who will provide more details on our operating performance.
After Pete reviews the financials I will return to close our prepared remarks and address your questions.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
I will review the operating results and expectations by segment starting firstly with Asia and Latin America.
Third quarter sales for Asia/Latin America grew 3% on a constant-dollar basis versus the prior year with price contributing 8% to growth while volume declined by 5%.
The key drivers of the volume decline came from a our determination to reduce distributor inventories in China to match consumer demand; b the 2011 SAP-related pre-buys in Asia; and c the temporary supply disruption to our ready-to-drink products in Thailand.
These 3 factors combined reduced sales growth for the segment by 8 percentage points.
While the loss of market share in China was a further contributor to the volume decline it was more than offset by solid gains in the rest of the Asia/Latin American segment and by contributions from the acquisition in Argentina.
Turning now to a bit more detail on China.
Final market share data now available shows that we lost close to 3.5 points of market share from the beginning of the year to our low in the middle of this year.
I shall return to this topic and improvement seen since shortly.
Before I do let me remind you that during our last conference call we highlighted the need to help our distributors reduce their inventory levels given the drop in our market share and somewhat slower category sales growth seen in the first half of the current year.
Our distributors paid cash in advance and we pride ourselves on keeping inventories at industry-leading low levels.
We believe this is important for maintaining price discipline in a market where it's not uncommon for a product to be bought and resold outside of normal channels by independent wholesalers.
We are also committed to the continued profitable growth of our distributors.
To this end we've identified additional opportunities to manage inventories more efficiently going forward.
Consistent with these commitments I'm happy to report our distributors made excellent progress on reducing inventories within the third quarter and our distributors ended the quarter with inventories at or below the China industry average.
Despite this further inventory reduction is anticipated for the fourth quarter to ensure that we enter 2013 in the strongest possible position.
I would now like to talk more specifically about current competitiveness and the evolution of underlying Chinese consumer demand for our products.
As Steve mentioned a double-digit price increase in the second quarter in the midst of heavier promotional activity by competitors distorted our relative pricing and caused us to lose share.
We continue to see a higher-than-normal level of discounting activity in the marketplace and given competitive dynamics it's likely that we continue in the near future.
During our last earnings call we spoke of the remedial strategies we were putting in place to recover share in China including increased promotional pricing activity and heightened focus on trade execution.
I'm very satisfied to report that these strategies appear to be working as anticipated.
And by third quarter end we had recovered 2 full share points from our midyear lows.
We are very pleased with that improvement and we expect to deliver further gains as we close out 2012.
I would like to add that despite some temporary promotional activity we have sustained the price increase in the mid- to high single digits in China.
The exact pace of further share recovery is naturally difficult to predict.
Share will fluctuate from months to months depending on competitive dynamics.
And we will obviously want to see share gains sustained over some months before declaring success but we are satisfied with our most recent progress.
Despite improvements during the quarter our average market share in China remained flat between the second and third quarters.
But with the improvements we've made during the third quarter we are confident that our average share will be higher in the fourth quarter.
We also remain optimistic about our business in China.
An increasing number of babies are still being born into middle class families and market dynamics will return to normal.
And we believe that long-term market share growth will ultimately be driven by product innovation and strong brand equity rather than temporary price activity.
To conclude my comments on China based on the appeal of our recently launched product upgrade and improving market share we expect the fourth quarter to see better sales growth than the quarter just completed.
Turning now to the rest of the Asia/Latin America segment.
Outside of China/Hong Kong we delivered double-digit constant-dollar sales growth during the third quarter with strong performance across Southeast Asia including the key markets of the Philippines and Vietnam.
Organic growth in Latin America was above levels seen over the last 5 years and the highest in the segment.
Our March 2012 acquisition in Argentina added further fuel to our expansion in the region.
Other highlights from our Latin American business include strong share gains in Mexico since the beginning of the year based on recent innovation continued market share growth in infant formula in Brazil and further strengthening of our market share in Colombia.
Wrapping up the discussion on Asia/Latin America we expect 2012 annual sales growth of the segment to run in the low double digits on a constant-dollar sales basis.
Turning now to the North America/Europe segment we reported a sales decline of 4% on a constant-dollar basis.
Volumes were down by 7% but offset by price improvements of 3%.
Europe was a significant contributor to the volume decline.
In the third quarter of 2011 we saw some inventory reloading as we began to operate a new distribution model.
Compounding this effect challenging economic conditions across Europe have caused some governments to tighten reimbursement parameters for our specialty products forcing the category to shrink in select markets.
You will recall that the majority of our sales in Europe are from widely-reimbursed Nutramigen brand.
Over the past few years our European business has been challenged for both growth and profitability.
Through 2012 we are taking steps to refocus our Western European business around our competitively superior market-leading allergy franchise Nutramigen.
Cow's milk allergy is on the rise globally and in Europe and once reshaped we believe we can grow our European business profitably in this segment.
As a result we are in the process of reorganizing our European operations and incurred a specified item charge in the third quarter.
This expense is excluded from our non-GAAP results.
The U.S.
accounted for the balance of the volume decline driven by the residual impact from the unfounded media scare in December of 2011.
We estimate that the impact peaked around July when the affected cohorts of babies reached the age of maximum consumption.
Recent share data indicate the impact is tailing off as expected as we move into the fourth quarter.
Our U.S.
market share recovery remains on track.
In our last call we noted that our share amongst newborns and 3-month olds had already recovered from the media event.
Market share reported by Nielsen is now beginning to reflect these improving trends.
Our share recovery reaffirms the inherent strength of our U.S.
organization and our executional ability.
It has been helped by the introduction earlier this year of a strengthened lineup of liquid product offerings spanning the age range from prematurity to toddlerhood.
Where introduced we are seeing incremental share improvements in the liquid segment where we have historically been relatively weak.
As previously discussed the U.S.
market remains under pressure from declining birth and lower consumption.
We however retained the view that the market is set to rebound as the economy improves over time.
On a full year basis we expect North America/Europe segment sales to be down in the mid-single digits on a constant-dollar basis.
In summary we made good progress in improving our share position in the U.S.
and China during the third quarter while continuing to deliver rapid growth in our other emerging markets.
While we are targeting further reductions in China distributor inventories in the fourth quarter we will continue to invest in demand generation across geographies to drive longer-term growth for our business.
With that let me now turn over to Pete who will provide you with further financial highlights.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
My comments will focus on our non-GAAP results.
Kasper highlighted constant-dollar sales trends but let me begin by discussing the impact of foreign exchange on sales.
The dollar was stronger on average against many Latin American and Asian currencies in the third quarter of 2012 versus 2011 and therefore reduced sales by about 2%.
For the full year currency will reduce sales by 1% if current exchange rates are maintained.
As Steve highlighted EPS of $0.71 per share was below the $0.78 we reported in the third quarter of 2011.
The single biggest driver of lower earnings accounting for the full $0.07 decline was related to the impact of foreign exchange on dollar-denominated balances in our manufacturing operations outside of the U.S.
most notably our plant in The Netherlands.
In the third quarter currency movements generated $0.02 per share in balance sheet remeasurement losses.
Note that this impact was not specifically included in our prior guidance.
In contrast we saw $0.05 of balance sheet remeasurement gains in the third quarter of last year.
As always there were a number of other puts and takes that affected the third quarter EPS comparison to 2011 including the following.
Third quarter gross margin was down on a reported basis from 61.6% last year to 61.2%.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange this cost us about $0.02 in lower earnings.
The decline is completely attributed to the North America/Europe segment where we faced higher dairy costs in the prior year.
Also lower production volumes in the U.S.
continued to drive unfavorable fixed cost absorption.
I'll have more to say in gross margins in a minute.
Constant-dollar advertising and promotion spending increased by 9% reducing earnings by $0.04 per share in support of new product launches not only in China but also in a number of other important markets.
We delivered a $0.02 reduction in general and administrative spending from lower incentive compensation accruals and productivity initiatives.
We have been more aggressive in driving G&amp;A productivity in light of slower sales growth.
Offsetting this benefit however was an additional $0.02 increase in pension settlement expenses in the third quarter.
These are triggered when cumulative lump sum payments exceed annual pension expense.
The trigger was seen in the second quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth quarter in 2011 due in part to the low interest rate environment which obviously drives higher lump sum payouts.
Finally we realized a $0.06 per share benefit arising from 2 prior year tax items.
First we reduced our 2011 tax provision to reflect the September filing of our final U.S.
federal income tax return.
Second we made significant progress in our cash repatriation planning and have concluded that more of our historical earnings can be kept offshore.
Note that the $0.06 from these 2 items is completely attributed to prior year's results and therefore will not recur in the future.
Also they had not been included in our July earnings guidance.
Absent the 2011 tax impacts we continue to expect our full year tax rate will run between 26% and 27% consistent with our guidance in our last conference call and our year-to-date effective tax rate of 26.2%.
That's down significantly from 28.5% in 2011.
And note that we believe a rate between 26% and 27% will be sustained in 2013.
Turning to our latest full year guidance we now expect constant-dollar sales to grow between 6% and 7% compared to 8% to 9% in our last conference call.
Asia/Latin America is now expected to see constant-dollar sales growth in the low double digits with the North America/Europe segment expected to be down in the mid-single digits.
As I mentioned earlier currency impacts will reduce reported growth by about 1% versus the prior year.
Please note that the 2012 trend in China's quarterly sales will impact our 2013 comparisons.
Our market share was highest in the first quarter of 2012 down in the second and third quarters on average and we expect to see solid fourth quarter improvement with much of the recovery already delivered.
In addition the reduced share led to an increased in distributors' inventories during the first half of 2012 and conversely a correction through lower sales in the second half of the year.
As a result we expect our first half comparisons in 2013 will be more difficult than the second half.
We expect gross margins for the current year to average about 62%.
That's down about 50 basis points from our last call and reflects the impact of both lower sales in China which carry relatively high margin and the initial impact from unfavorable fixed cost absorption from lower production in plants serving China.
Note that the fixed cost absorption issue will continue into 2013 since we'll be manufacturing products throughout the fourth quarter that carries a higher overhead burden from lower production rates.
These products will be carried in inventory through year end and will not be sold until early next year.
Our long-term target of gross margin remains at 63% for the company.
As we move through the distributor inventory reductions and see further share gains in China sales will stabilize at a higher level and production rates will increase correspondingly.
And remember that we also temporarily reduced production rates in the U.S.
this year as we carried higher internal inventories due to the temporary share loss from the December media issue.
Productivity remains an important lever for us to meet our gross margin target and we have the pricing power to offset inflationary trends in emerging markets.
In both the third quarter and year-to-date we achieved a global price increase of 6%.
On a full year basis operating expenses measured as a percentage of sales remains around 38.8%.
Our earnings guidance of $3.02 to $3.07 per share for 2012 tightens and lowers the range from $3.04 to $3.14 that we detailed last quarter.
The lower sales growth for the year is obviously the key factor at work along with a lower gross margin partially offset by lower expenses predominantly for general and administrative spending.
Also the $0.04 benefit from reduction in prior year's tax accruals net of the third quarter balance sheet remeasurement loss was not included in our prior guidance.
Our cash balance at the end of September was $958 million up $171 million from June.
The increase was attributed to a $155 million temporary drawdown on a revolving credit facility due to cash needs in part related to the ultimate retirement of debt associated with our Argentine acquisition and our investment in the new Asia spray dryer.
The incremental borrowing will be paid off over the next several quarters.
Capital spending year-to-date is $73 million but is expected to reach about $175 million for the full year lower than our prior guidance of $200 million as fourth quarter spending ramps up on the Asia spray dryer.
Depreciation and amortization expense is estimated at about $75 million for the year.
During our prior earnings call I mentioned that we might be opportunistic around the timing of our share buybacks.
In our 10-Q that will be issued today you'll see that we repurchased 676 000 shares of stock in the third quarter consuming $49 million in cash.
That's more than we repurchased in total during the prior 2 quarters and it's evidence of our belief in the longer-term growth opportunities for Mead Johnson.
Our strong cash flow allows us to invest heavily in our business while returning capital to shareholders through both dividends and the share repurchase program.
With that let me turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
While we face some operational challenges in the short term our financial estimates for the year would still deliver 6% to 7% revenue growth and record earnings in a difficult global economic environment.
We are confident in our ability to overcome these challenges successfully and expeditiously taking all necessary actions and already seeing significant progress.
Success is never a straight line.
We retain an unwavering belief in the long-term sustainable and profitable growth of Mead Johnson and in our business model our strategies and our people.
With that let me turn the call over to the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So can we talk about the U.S.
a little bit? I think it's right to assume and correct me if I'm wrong that the U.S.
was down meaningfully too despite a -- it looks like an easier comparison.
So I'm curious if that is correct what happened here to drive such a sudden change.
And I was a little surprised to see you blaming the Cronobacter scare a little bit.
You hadn't mentioned it for a while.
I thought that was behind you especially since you're now talking about market share gains in the U.S.
So if you could just talk about that a little bit and add some color that would be helpful.
Ken this is Kasper.
Thanks very much for the question.
It's an excellent question.
I do believe that we have taken this group and other groups through the impact of the Cronobacter scare that we had previously.
But let me just remind you that we said at the outset that the impact from this would be greatest in the third quarter when the affected cohorts would reach the age of 6 to 9 months which is the age of peak consumption for infants.
So sort of simply put most of our market share is driven by infants that are between 6 and 9 months of age and therefore it follows from that that to some degree to date sales are substantially driven by actions and events that really unfolded 6 to 9 months ago.
Research Division</strong> So you expected going into this quarter to see volumes down to this degree? We were certainly expecting that our market share would come under pressure.
We also know that there are other factors at play.
Notably this is the last quarter we are out of the Catalina couponing project I guess you can call it as we now come back into this program in the fourth quarter which sort of historically has helped our market shares as well as we go into the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just a little confused because you did lower your -- I think you lowered your guidance for the top line for U.S./Europe today from down low single digits to mid-single digits and now just down mid-single digits.
So something changed.
I'm just curious if you could -- what it was.
Was the category worse than you thought? Just help us understand a little bit what's driving your guidance change there.
Sure.
This is Pete Ken.
Frankly I think the -- Kasper talked about in Europe how the government reimbursement for specialty projects has come under pressure due to budget constraints in many markets and that's been a little bit tougher than what we had expected.
And remember 1 point of share for North America/Europe is probably the equivalent of something under $10 million so the level of accuracy I think that we have can be quite tough.
As Kasper said too the market share in the U.S.
continues to increase.
We're seeing that where we want to see it.
We're exiting the quarter with higher share and we feel comfortable there.
We're making good progress.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It sounds like in China there was more of a surprise on your end from the -- on the distributor de-loading side than on the consumption side.
But it would kind of seem that the appropriate level of inventories is directly tied to customer demands.
So I'm just trying to reconcile those 2 things.
Can you provide some color there? And then also if perhaps you can quantify what the full year impact of the inventory reductions will be on sales that would be helpful too.
Yes let me take that last question first.
And we don't want to give you a specific number here.
The majority of our reduction in our sales growth for the year is attributed to distributor inventory reductions that we intend to take in the fourth quarter.
And once we get beyond that you're not going to see it.
But I think it was mentioned during the comments by Steve and Kasper.
We did see a slightly higher share decline in the second quarter than what we had estimated.
You may recall in our last conference call we said we estimated it between 1% and 1.5%.
That came in a little bit higher than the top end of that range.
And while it's not very big in terms of kind of a share differential when you look at a market the size of China it has some impact on sales overall.
But if you say that we're slightly over 1.5% that represents roughly 10% of the total share points that we have in China proper and for a $1 billion-plus business that's $25 million.
So that is a big component of what -- of the distributor numbers for the full year.
Layered on top of that as we've discussed for the food and even baby store channels we have seen lower growth.
I mentioned in our last call that it was running in the mid-20s last year.
It's been cut roughly in half and that results -- it could result in an extra week or 2 weeks of inventory sitting in retailers that ultimately will be reflected in distributor shipments.
So that's kind of a second point there.
And then I think as Kasper said as we went through a very thorough review in light of what was going on we identified some additional opportunities for inventory reductions on the part of our distributors to improve their efficiencies.
So it's the combination of all those but it's meaningful dollars.
In terms of your first question when you sit back and look at the increase in distributor inventory you're right in pointing out 2 things.
That's driven by first of all the actual higher level of dollars that are there and then there's the impact of the fact that you also will have a change in -- a reduction as we saw in the second quarter and some improvement in the third quarter for higher sales per day at retail.
Remember distributor inventory has 2 factors: what we sell in and then what is sold out ultimately by consumers.
And both affect it.
But when we look at the increase that we had 70% of that increase came from the higher dollar value of the inventory that was out there.
30% or even a little bit less was related to the daily sales rates.
So the vast majority of what we see is really coming from that factor not in improvement in the retail sales if you will at the end of the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geisler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask on China.
I've had a lot of discussions with clients over the last few weeks particularly with regard to all the messaging that was done during September about inventory levels et cetera and just the feedback I've gotten is sort of everybody expected Mead Johnson to have sort of like the best intelligence on infant formula in China.
And there's been a lot of questions about why would you institute a double-digit price increase back in May June when it looked like the category was getting promotional and it looked like inventories were a little bit higher than what they should have been.
And also a lot of questions about -- I thought distributor inventory levels were kept at a minimum anyway.
I mean my understanding was that they were 5 10 15 days of inventory in the channel at any given time.
So can you talk about sort of how far out of whack they had gotten before you made the determination that you needed to do something about curtailing the level of inventory within the channel? Diane this is Kasper.
Thanks for the question.
Let me firstly talk about the price increase that we announced into the trade in China in April.
So you will recognize that having announced the price increase in April this was prior to the sort of increased promotional activity hardening up in the category in China.
I think we are very humble about the fact that we clearly got that price increase or the magnitude of it wrong.
We mistimed at the very least.
And I'm not going to try and defend that.
I think we recognized that.
We've taken actions to realign our pricing to make sure we stay with what we call our strategic pricing relativities in the market.
And as I just mentioned we are happy with the progress that we've seen since we've done that with us regaining well over half of the share we lost between the beginning of the year and midyear.
So that's maybe addressing your point on price.
Let me talk a little bit about inventories.
You're quite right that we pride ourselves on our commitment to maintaining inventories at appropriate levels at all times.
And when and if we discover that inventory levels have gotten out of whack with that philosophy we are absolutely determined to take prompt action to bring them back in line and that sometimes includes giving unpopular messages I guess.
But inventory as you correctly say is always relative to what your demand is your retailer demand.
So it was less about -- what we've seen was less about us increasing inventory than it was about the fact that when our demand dropped through the second quarter towards midyear a fixed amount of inventory that was sitting in our system effectively came to represent a higher-than-appropriate amount of forward cover for our distributors.
That obviously affects them and it affects their profitability and it just affects the general efficiency of the entire supply chain.
And therefore we are taking the necessary steps to address that promptly.
So I hope you feel that gives you some kind of clarity on the issue.
Research Division</strong> Well I just -- I'm curious because I think the $55 million that Pete referenced in the second quarter earnings call and now you've taken down your total sales guidance by 2 percentage points if I'm not mistaken which would suggest another call it $75 million most of which you said is related to China although you do have some commentary about North America/Europe being weaker than anticipated.
So that suggests all in that the China business sort of was originally sort of overbooked by about $125 million.
Am I looking -- in sales which would be 12% to 15% of your sales based in China.
Am I looking at that incorrectly or...
I think just 2 quick points.
First of all keep in mind that the market share loss in the second quarter more than half of that came through in the last month of June.
And you don't respond -- you can't make corrections that quickly.
Second of all with regard to -- your math is right about what's the reduction in sales for the company.
It's about $70 million.
It's not a $70 million reduction -- increase in further inventories.
And if you recall too the $55 million was a big number but it was driven by -- we weren't going to all get it in the third quarter.
The only other thing I would point out is that we're taking our guidance back to where we had it in January $3 to $3.10.
And certainly the numbers have come down from lower sales growth than we anticipated earlier in the year with other offsets but we're in pretty good shape we think coming out of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll turn my attention to Europe really quick.
That was a surprise to me in regards to the reimbursement change.
When did that reimbursement change happen? It's been a topic that has been sort of evolving and indeed continues to evolve as you are probably aware and can well imagine.
Many of the European governments are undergoing a constant review of their expenditures and are hence looking for ways to constrain expenditure on healthcare-related reimbursements.
So this is a topic that is in constant evolution and we are indeed in several countries in sort of continuous discussion with the governments on reimbursement levels.
Poland would be an excellent example of that.
So I would say it's a constantly evolving topic.
Research Division</strong> But in terms of timing this is the first time you talked about it.
Is it fair to assume that this is a challenge that's going to persist for at least the next 3 quarters until you cycle this? I think it's fair to say that this pressure is going to remain in Europe for some time but we believe that we've digested most of the pressure within the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> But from a year-on-year perspective it's still -- am I misinterpreting it or should we expect year-on-year pressure in Europe for the next few quarters? And related to that is it right to assume that Europe is around 10% of aggregate North America/Europe segments? And then how big was it down this quarter? I think you're maybe becoming overly focused on the reimbursement change and I just want to draw your attention back to the fact that a larger impact was from the change in our distribution model in the base year which obviously we are lapping now so that's not going to be with us in the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Europe gets better from here most likely.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> On the increase in DHA in the Chinese product line how does that stack up versus most of the market? I know you said you spend a lot more on advertising and promotion.
Is that messaging effective with consumers right now? And where is it at relative to the U.S.
levels of DHA in the product? Yes I mean most of the change occurred in our children -- in the level of DHA in our children's products so that's a much larger component of our business in our emerging markets than it is in the U.S.
And we raised the level significantly.
And I believe that on previous calls we've alluded to the fact that this is a global innovation that we have launched in several other markets including Thailand and Hong Kong where we've seen it be very successful.
So we're very confident that the message is resonating with consumers including consumers in China I may add.
And we feel very good about the change and we feel good about the underlying value that that's adding to our brand equity.
Research Division</strong> And relative to the rest of the market for children's growing-up drinks? We would be at the highest level of DHA in the marketplace now if that's what you mean.
Your next question comes from the line of Victoria Collin with Atlantic Equities.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the promotional activity that you mentioned in China and Mead's position in terms of taking up promotional activity yourselves whether this relates to the premium category where you currently exist or where you feel that there's any need as well to move into the super premium or mass -- if you are seeing heightened promotion in your particular category in general.
And then I wonder as well if you could talk a little bit about the growth rates for the market if you wouldn't mind.
I think last quarter you mentioned that Chinese growth rates had slowed a little bit maybe to 7.5%.
Could you quantify what the changes you've seen in the last quarter equate to relative to that number and also how you see -- whether some of this is the one-off impacts of regime change or whether this is a more structural shift that we're seeing in the Chinese consumer? Yes we don't believe that there's a structural change taking place in the marketplace.
We are still seeing the premium category as growing and therefore we believe that we are in the right segment in the market.
We'll continue to change in that direction.
We previously said in relation to the merits of entering super premium that we feel that unless we can bring true signs to that segment that justifies charging the consumer double the price we do not believe it's consistent with our values to enter that segment.
We are sticking with that view and remain concerned that any growth in that segment may not be sustainable unless it's underpinned by science.
In relation to the category growth we've spoken to you about that before.
We remain very excited about the growth prospects in China.
We think the growth prospects are very healthy but there's little doubt that the Chinese economy has slowed somewhat even though I guess the latest economic data out of China is perhaps somewhat more encouraging.
And with that the category growth versus what it was say a year or 18 months ago has slowed somewhat but I should say that it still remains pretty strong.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up and one question just -- and a follow-up in terms of the commentary on price promotion in China.
I just want to make sure I understood it correctly.
At this point you're at a price point where you believe you've struck the right promotional balance in terms of restoring market share.
You're not implying that you might have to promote for some more.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second just for Pete.
As I've just gone through the press release and listening to the commentary I just want to make sure I'm capturing some of the kind of the one-off headwinds going into next year.
I guess we're lapping what will be a lower tax rate will be lapping higher compensation expenses I guess some overhead absorption the effect of having higher-cost product gets pulled into next year the spray dryer expense.
And then I guess also in this quarter we have the gain on sale of non-core intangibles which I'm not sure how big that was.
But have I captured at least all of some of the unusual items that will affect the first half and maybe part of next year as we try to model '13? Yes I think you have.
Let me just first point out that that gain on the sale of some intangible assets was not included in our non-GAAP earnings.
So if you're focused on that that's not going to be an issue.
We are going to see as I mentioned lower growth in the first half of the year higher in the second half.
You will see a $0.04 to $0.05 impact from startup expenses associated with the spray dryer which is temporary and that will dissipate significantly in 2014.
There will be some carryover impact from lower production rates in the fourth quarter for China.
It isn't huge though.
I wouldn't get overly focused on that in terms of a big impact on our overall earnings.
Your next question will come from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
I just want to focus on dairy environment.
I understand that you have a 7-month lag but dairy prices are continuing to rise since summer both here and in Oceania as well.
So as we look into '13 given that pricing would probably be moderate if anything should that be a concern on the gross margin line? Well first of all remember as I said in the last call we're going to go into 2013 seeing the benefit of the reduction in dairy costs this year while your point is spot on with regard to dairy costs up in the last 3 months in North America/Europe and some in New Zealand.
Everything we're hearing is for the Asia market.
New Zealand season is looking good so I wouldn't draw a conclusion that that's necessarily going to continue throughout the rest of the year.
It will put probably a little bit of pressure on gross margins in the second quarter versus the first but it's too early to draw a conclusion that that's going to be in the second half.
And just as follow-up to earlier discussion the price increase in China is that only in Mainland China or is it in Hong Kong as well? That's only in Mainland China.
And I perhaps was guilty when Bryan asked the question.
I should be clear that obviously pricing is a dynamic thing because we operate in a competitive environment.
So it's hard to anticipate how our competitors will behave over the coming quarter or 2.
But we are very happy with the pricing relativities that we have established as we came out of this last quarter that we've just reported.
And assuming a static environment we've not looked to make changes to that.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yet another follow-up question on China.
About the promotional environment you said that the category maybe is around 7% or 8% but my understanding is that there's really no volume in that number.
Is it your view that the promotional activity will remain aggressive like this as long as volume is weak? And do you think that that -- in your history of being in this category is that when -- volume starts to return is that when the promotional spending kind of normalizes? Rob this is Kasper.
I think our experience is that this particular sort of competitive dynamic is less related to volume growth in the market than it is related to perhaps pressures on individual companies taking particular actions.
And a number of companies are undergoing change or are facing different pressures in different parts of the world so it's a competitive environment.
Everybody clearly wants to gain share and certainly defend their market share in China.
We do believe that over the next 1 or 2 quarters this market ought to return to sort of more of the historical dynamics where pricing is less of a -- is much less of a factor.
And ultimately innovation and product improvement and brand equity will be enhanced really by other actions and by equity building initiatives rather than pricing activity.
I don't want to be sitting here trying to anticipate or give the impression that I can anticipate with accuracy what my competitors will do in China.
We will clearly defend our share and we feel good about where we are.
We feel good about the prospects for China.
Research Division</strong> And if I can ask a follow-up on the comment that market share was up.
I think I heard 200 basis points from the midpoint in the quarter as you exited this quarter.
What I said was that from the beginning of the year to our low around midyear we lost approximately 3.5 share points.
By the time we exited the third quarter we had recovered just over 2 full share points of that so just over 200 basis points of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you've recovered about 2/3 of what you lost.
That's the right way to think about it.
And we recovered that gradually as we went through the third quarter.
Your last question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> One I just -- again I know there's a lot of questions on China just maybe 2 for me.
The first one is Steve over the years -- Kasper over the years I've never heard you guys talk this much about China and the promotional environment.
I'm very used to over the years understanding that the Chinese consumer was really focused on the product itself and they were very much willing to pay almost any price that you would ask.
And we've seen in the data I think very consistent numbers.
This year it feels like there's a change.
It feels like the promotional activity from some of the competitors really got a response from the consumer.
And I suppose very directly the question is are we hitting such high levels on the price point to the consumer such that we've gotten to some kind of maximum? Do you have any thoughts on that? David let me have a go at that.
There are a number of factors.
Firstly as I mentioned and Kasper detailed the timing of our double-digit price increase and the timing of promotional activity particularly from 2 of our largest international competitors resulted in an unprecedented pricing gap between our product and market and theirs.
Kasper was suitably humble I think about the execution of that price increase but as I mentioned it was intended to cover 2 years of cost inflation given that we haven't taken an increase in 2011.
I wouldn't name our competitors but one of them is involved in a strategic transaction that made it attractive to them to be price-promoting aggressively and driving revenues.
And another was planning their own product upgrade and price increase and we're looking to move inventories through the retail channel at the same time.
So I think there were a number of factors.
And then of course as you know better than me there is some slowdown in the Chinese economy and some resultant impact on confidence which -- there's no pure science here but there's greater elasticity in the children's category in particular.
The Europe environment is weak.
The North American environment is weak.
China has been the biggest prize for a long time.
That is never more true than it is now.
But I do think as Kasper said that normality will return in the near future.
And then ultimately it will be our science our quality and our brand equity that will win out.
And then I understand the disappointment in our short-term results but we're very pleased with the share momentum that we're seeing now and we will exit this year with industry-leading low levels of inventory right across the system.
The business will exit this year in terrific health.
Research Division</strong> I'll just sneak one last question in and I think it's reasonably critical is the distributor inventory.
So if in the third quarter you're ending below industry norms I don't think I understand why there needs to be further reductions into the fourth quarter.
Is there some nice piece of logic here as to why? Yes we weren't trying to be cute with our words.
Kasper was speaking very accurately.
But our business model and our view of how much inventory our distributors should carry particularly since they pay cash in advance is different from our competitors both local and international.
We pride ourselves in having a very high standard and we could allow that to lapse right now in order to report improved results and we will not let that happen.
So thank you all very much for attending today and I look forward to speaking to you again soon.
Thank you operator.
Thank you sir.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Karissa and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to  Mead Johnson's fourth quarter conference call.
With me today are Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Operating Officer and designated CEO-elect; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some time in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that you are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As you've likely read in our press release we delivered strong and improved performance in the fourth quarter in both operating segments and for the full year delivered at the top end of our projected sales range while exceeding our EPS guidance.
Fourth quarter sales grew by 7% on a constant dollar basis with 5% from organic growth and 2% from our Argentine acquisition.
The Asia/Latin America segment delivered growth of 9% while successfully completing the reduction of distributor inventory in China.
The North America/Europe segment returned to positive growth of 4% as we continue to gain profitable non-WIC market share.
Fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.72 per share were up $0.20 from 2011 and put us above the top end of our guidance as we recognize one additional penny from prior year's tax adjustments.
Our fourth quarter results brought full year non-GAAP earnings to $3.08 per share an increase of 10% from 2011.
Let me highlight some of our key achievements for the full year.
Firstly on an annual basis we delivered 7% constant dollar sales growth while overcoming significant challenges in our 2 largest markets.
Our Asia/Latin America segment which delivered 12% growth excluding foreign exchange now accounts for 70% of our global sales up from 67% in 2011.
While we fully acknowledge the first half challenge we faced in China we made excellent progress in recovering market share in the second half with further gains in the fourth quarter.
And importantly distributor inventories were restored to normal levels by year end.
In 2012 China/Hong Kong sales grew by 5% on a constant dollar basis and reached almost $1.2 billion double the level of sales from 2009 the year of our IPO.
The other markets of the Asia/Latin America segment contributed organic growth of 12% which was further enhanced by our acquisition in Argentina.
We grew market share across these businesses which now accounts for 40% of our total sales.
Latin America delivered the strongest growth among our regions and we are on track to achieve $1 billion in sales by 2015.
We completed our Argentine acquisition in March the transition has been smooth and we are very pleased with the progress including the fourth quarter launch of premium Bebe Plus with our clinically supported science.
Turning to the North America/Europe segment constant dollar sales were 3% lower than 2011 as a result of lower birth and consumption and the impact of the misleading media event late in 2011.
However the impact of that media event is now behind us.
And by the end of 2012 our non-WIC market share had completely recovered and indeed stand slightly above the level seen before the event.
Enfa the #1 global brand in the pediatric nutrition industry achieved a major milestone in 2012 exceeding $3 billion in sales and we introduced significant products and packaging innovations that reflect the breadth and strength of our science.
We increased DHA to expert-recommended levels in our children's products in key Asia and Latin America markets and we introduced several new liquid products including EnfaGrow Ready-to-Drink toddler milk in the U.S.
The Singapore spray dryer and technology center is on track to start up in the second half of 2014.
This 3-year $300 million investment will be the first company-owned spray dryer in Asia and will support our strong growth projections in the region.
We delivered a record 5% savings in cost of goods sold from productivity initiatives.
This effort was critical in helping to mitigate the impacts on margins from high single-digit commodity inflation and lower production volumes.
We increased investments in advertising and promotion by $50 million raising our demand-creation spending from 13.6% of sales in 2011 to 14.2% in 2012.
We made excellent progress in the first year with of our 5-year plan to reduce general and administrative costs by driving global operating efficiencies.
In addition we reduced our effective tax rate by 250 basis points in the past year with further improvements expected in 2013.
Finally despite cost pressures on gross margin and incremental demand-generation investments we delivered 10% EPS growth leveraging our 7% sales growth.
Now let me comment upon our outlook for 2013.
We look forward to another year of solid sales and earnings growth.
Core constant dollar sales are expected to grow in the range of 7% to 8% which will be reduced by 1% as we exit several low-margin noncore businesses.
We intend to further increase investments in demand generation in 2013 funded by higher gross margins therefore EBIT margins will be near those of 2012.
As a result of these factors we are initiating 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance in the range of $3.22 to $3.30 up 7% to 10% excluding the $0.07 in one-time tax benefit in 2012.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper who will provide more details on our operating performance.
After Pete reviews the financials I will return to close our prepared remarks and address your questions.
Thank you Steve and good morning to you all.
My comments this morning will provide a bit more color on 2012 as well as our guidance for 2013.
In order to better understand the underlying operating performance of the business I'm going to focus on constant dollar sales growth of our ongoing core businesses.
I will exclude any impact from businesses acquired exited or divested in 2012.
By this definition reference 2012 sales growth will exclude the impact of the Argentine acquisition that added nearly 2 points to our top line.
In addition when discussing growth for 2013 I will exclude $40 million in nonrecurring sales from businesses we exited towards the end of 2012.
Following my segment Pete will provide additional clarification of our financial performance.
Full year 2012 sales growth for the company on this basis was 5%.
Our overall growth figures matched double-digit organic growth from South Asia and Latin America.
Outside of China and the U.S.
on which I'll comment shortly we gained market share in 7 of our next 8 biggest markets.
This included markets in which we've seen challenges in both 2010 and 2011.
For the company in total we expect that core organic sales growth will accelerate from 5% in 2012 to 7% to 8% in 2013.
While 2012 growth nearly all came from pricing we expect an equal contribution from pricing and volume in 2013.
Lower anticipated pricing gains reflect lower expected commodity inflation which in turn will help drive gross margin improvement.
Turning now to our reporting segments in North America and Europe specifically.
As Steve mentioned we've now fully recovered from the December 2011 media event in the U.S.
Our very profitable non-WIC share is now slightly ahead of where it was prior to this incident.
For those of you who track Nielsen data let me point out that this improvement will not be visible as Nielsen does not differentiate between WIC and non-WIC market share.
During 2012 we renewed our largest WIC contract which is in California.
We do not expect 2012 contract changes to affect 2013 net sales materially.
And we have no contracts up for rebidding till the end of 2014.
We expect constant dollar core sales for the North America/Europe segment to -- in 2013 to be flat.
This compares to the 3% decline experienced in full year 2012.
We expect to be able to offset continued declines in consumption in the U.S.
market with gains in non-WIC market share.
Our longer-term outlook for the U.S.
market remains positive any strengthening of the U.S.
economy will eventually lead to a recovery in birth in per capita consumption.
That said in 2013 we expect U.S.
births to remain flat with lower consumption as economic growth remains low.
Discussing now our performance in the Asia/Latin America segment.
Organic constant dollar sales growth for this segment in 2012 was 9% with a 7% contribution from pricing and a 2% contribution from volume.
Our businesses in Southeast Asia and Latin America combined are larger than either China or the U.S.
And in aggregate these businesses now account for 40% of the company's revenue.
These markets in total grew 12% on an organic constant dollar basis with growth almost being equally divided between price and volume.
Our success was broad-based with a dozen markets growing at double digits.
In Latin America Mexico our third-biggest business globally saw substantial share improvement through the second half of 2012.
As did Brazil Peru Colombia and several other important South American markets.
In Southeast Asia Thailand the Philippines and Vietnam also growth accelerate based on improved share positions.
All 3 now rank amongst our 10 biggest businesses globally.
Let me now comment on our business in China.
As Steve mentioned our 2012 revenue in China including Hong Kong grew 12% -- grew 5% sorry on a constant -- in constant dollars.
We continue to recover market share in the fourth quarter of 2012 which saw average share up a point on the third quarter and we exited the year with distributor inventory levels reflective of our current improved market share and with no further reductions expected in 2013.
We continue to see a higher-than-normal level of discounting activity in the marketplace during the fourth quarter.
We do not anticipate that this will change in the current quarter as promotions are common around Chinese New Year.
We will continue to prioritize equity building advertising in China.
That said we will continue to ensure our pricing remains competitive and allows us to protect our market share position.
Despite the share gains we made in the third and fourth quarters of 2012 it is important as you develop your expectations to remember that we enter 2013 at market share levels well below those seen in the first quarter of 2012.
Now before I hand the call over to Pete I want to emphasize the expected impact of China's top year-over-year comparisons on 2013 total company results.
Our very high market share and sales in China in the first quarter of 2012 combined with the inventory build we saw in the second quarter of 2012 means that total company comparables in the first half of 2013 will be tough with year-over-year growth expected to be in the low single digits.
Comparisons in the second half of 2013 will be correspondingly easier and we feel confident in our full year guidance and in our ability to grow the Asia/Latin America segment in double digits on a full-year constant dollar basis.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial highlights.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I will first bridge from the core organic growth rates that Kasper discussed to total expected sales growth in 2013.
The rest of my comments will focus on profitability and liquidity.
Kasper indicated that we plan constant dollar sales growth in 2013 between 7% and 8% for our core business.
However this will be reduced by 1% as we exited several noncore businesses which generated $40 million in revenue in 2012.
As a result total sales measured on a constant dollar basis will increase from 6% to 7%.
Note that the noncore sales made only a small contribution to earnings in 2012.
The vast majority of the noncore sales were related to the contract manufacturer of U.S.
adult private label products and the changes in our European business.
Therefore while we anticipate flat core sales in North America/Europe total constant dollar sales for this segment will be down about 3% including the noncore impact.
Importantly sales from the emerging markets in Asia and Latin America are not affected and total sales growth for that segment will be at or slightly above 10% just as Kasper noted.
Turning to foreign exchange.
If current exchange rates continued through the remainder of the year we would expect currency impacts to reduce sales by about 0.5 percentage point with an unfavorable impact on earnings per share of a $0.01 or $0.02.
The greatest exposure form foreign exchange in 2013 will continue to come from Latin America particularly in Venezuela and Argentina where the risk of a significant devaluation of the bolivar and the peso respectively is possible.
We delivered gross margins of 61.9% for the full year in 2012 in line with our previous guidance.
That's down from 63% in 2011 with higher dairy and commodity costs along with unfavorable manufacturing variances and lower U.S.
production volumes more than offset higher prices and strong productivity efforts.
For 2013 we are expecting gross margins to average near 62.5% solid progress from 2012.
Cost of goods sold inflation is expected to moderate from the high single digits to the low to mid-single digits this year.
As a result pricing contributions will be smaller than 2012 but we will continue to push for a strong productivity.
Keep in mind that we face $0.04 to $0.05 per share in additional cost as we start to add manufacturing staff at the new Singapore dryer in advance of startup.
This temporary factor will also be seen in the first half of 2014 until the plant becomes fully operational.
In 2013 these start-up expenses reduce gross margins by about 30 basis points.
Operating expenses in 2012 stood at 38.7% of sales down from 39.3% in 2011.
As was already noted advertising and promotion increased by 60 basis points but was more than offset by a 100-basis-point decline in general and administrative or G&amp;A spending.
You will recall our target is to ultimately drop G&amp;A from 8.5% of sales in 2011 to 6.5% by 2016.
So we achieved half of that goal in the first year.
The elimination of duplicate share service cost following the SAP implementation was one factor at work.
In addition we had cost controls in place and also had lower bonus accruals than in 2011.
For 2013 we expect operating expenses to come in slightly above 39% obviously higher than 2012.
The increase is coming from higher demand generation investments.
G&amp;A spending will be relatively flat on a percent of sales basis as continued leverage of our global infrastructure is offset by normalized bonus accruals.
Finally EBIT margins for the company are expected to be near the 23.3% seen in 2012 as higher gross margins are used to fund A&amp;P investments.
For 2012 our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 24.3% including $0.07 per share of prior year's adjustments of $0.06 seen in the third quarter and the final $0.01 in the fourth.
Without these prior year items the ETR for the company was about 26%.
That's an impressive 250-basis-point reduction from the 28.5% seen in 2011 based on solid cash and tax funding efforts.
We expect to make further progress in reducing our global tax rate in 2013 as we start to see the initial benefits from relocating our Asian headquarters to Singapore.
Our ETR is expected to be about 25% this year.
Before I move onto cash and liquidity I want to highlight the significant reduction in specified items from $0.32 per share in 2011 to $0.13 in 2012.
Including these items our GAAP earnings per share increased by 19% in 2012.
Classified costs have been more significant over the past few years but the biggest contributor being investments in developing standalone infrastructure mostly IT systems costs.
With that installation behind us we expect to see another significant drop in specified cost to about $0.02 per share in 2013.
So GAAP earnings should be in the range of $3.20 to $3.28 per share an 8% to 11% increase from the $2.95 seen in 2012.
Before turning the call back to Steve I'd like to highlight a few items about our balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended 2012 with over $1 billion in cash up $202 million from December of 2011.
About $160 million of that increase is related to a drawdown against our revolving credit facility.
Net debt fell from $692 million to $642 million at year end.
Please note that interest expense is expected to be slightly below $60 million in 2013.
The location of our cash is well balanced at the end of 2012 with 52% held in the United States.
Free cash flow measured as cash from operations less capital expenditures reached a record $568 million last year.
In total we returned 2/3 of this free cash flow to shareholders up from 55% in 2011.
During 2012 we increased our dividend over 15% to $1.20 per share.
And we repurchased about 1.9 million shares of stock which used $140 million in cash.
In 2012 we also used $159 million or another 28% of our free cash flow for the acquisition of an 80% equity position in the new Argentine joint venture.
We expect to make the final $26 million in payments on the transaction in 2013.
Capital spending is estimated at $260 million for 2013 up from $170 million in 2012 as we move into the heaviest investment period for the new Singapore spray dryer and technology center.
Depreciation and amortization expense is estimated to grow from $77 million to $80 million.
With that I will now turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
In summary we addressed operating challenges in 2012 to deliver very solid growth in revenue and earnings and our outlook for 2013 reflects an expectation of strong core business performance and value creation to shareholders.
Now we'll be pleased to take your questions.
Operator please open the line.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first about North America and EU and profitability there.
Margins were unexpectedly strong I guess during the quarter.
The strongest that we've seen since early 2011.
How much of this is a function of a cadence of spending in the quarter as opposed to whether it's a function of cost savings realization or just simply the cornerback issue lapping as opposed to a sustainable normalization in margins in the region? And can you give us any sense of what range of operating margins you might expect for North America/EU in 2013? Sure.
We did see an increase in our EBIT margins of about 7 points in the fourth quarter of '12 versus the fourth quarter of '11.
More than half of that came from a reduction in operating expenses on the percentage of sales basis.
Part of that was driven by lower bonuses but also by the timing of just investment spending during the year.
There can be quite a bit of quarterly variability there.
I would point out too though that we also saw higher gross margin as the benefit of lower dairy prices was seen for the first time over the past year.
We're not going to give specific guidance for 2013 but if you look at history and we would strongly recommend you focus on 2011 as the first year where we had cost allocations that follow our new system but that was 25%.
It came down to 21% last year and we would expect to make progress off the 21% in New Year.
And your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Market.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to just on China get your two cents on kind of category growth expectations in the high premium segment for 2013.
And then how does that compared to what that segment of the market by your numbers grew in 2012? Thanks for the question.
As we've said in previous public presentations we do believe that the category in China is certainly growing but it is growing at a slower rate than it was in 2011.
And while none of our sources are perfect we do believe that Nielsen in general provides an accurate portrayal of this trend.
We have seen faster growth in the baby store channel than we have in the Nielsen-monitored retail channels.
But we don't have a really good aggregation for the total category at this point in time.
So I don't know whether we want to give you a specific number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay is it -- do you think that that the category will grow faster slower about the same this year versus last year? I don't think we see any particular reason that it should change dramatically in 2013 versus 2012.
And your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just turning back to the U.S.
it sounds as though you're holding some positive expectations for the non-WIC market share gains in 2013.
And so just in light of that what's driving your recovery there I mean outside the Lactum and the Cronobacter related weakness anything in particular on the pricing front or the products front that you can point here? Well regarding the non-WIC shares we mentioned in the script we gained market share in the fourth quarter and our share is now higher than it was before the late 2011 media event.
We certainly see some impact from WIC but I want to remind everybody that the impact from WIC as you look at Nielsen and our reported sales is primarily on market share and Nielsen and growth sales for Mead Johnson.
But remember that all of our WIC accounts account for less than 10% of our U.S.
net sales and has nearly no impact on our earnings.
So I think Steve also mentioned in his part of the script I just want to remind you John that we've launched new products in the U.S.
particularly we have improved our liquids offering in the infant formula market and we have launched a ready-to-drink toddler product.
Both are products launches that we are quite excited about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up turning to China can you quantify how much of that double-digit price increase you are actually able to hold onto as you exited 2012? Yes the -- I'll take that one.
As Kasper mentioned a few moments ago the promotional environment became more competitive in 2012 including in the fourth quarter.
This was expected we expect that trend to continue in the first quarter.
Chinese New Year occurs in February.
But in the fourth quarter net of those promotions we still achieve an effective price increase in the single digits.
And we expect that to continue.
And your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a little more color on that promotional environment in China.
Is it mainly you dealing back or are your competitors doing the same? I'm asking beyond just the timing of the Chinese New Year.
And when do you expect maybe a more normal promotional environment something along the lines of what you saw in the last couple of years versus what you saw in the last 6 months or so? Okay.
I don't know that we can speculate on when there will be a change in the promotional environment or indeed if there will be.
We are not seeing a significant worsening of that promotional environment between the last couple of quarters.
And we are certainly not driving it.
As I mentioned in the script we tend to prioritize equity building advertising and activities.
We believe that that's ultimately what's going to drive our growth in China however we are committed to defending our market share position and keeping price at a competitive level.
Not withstanding that even in that competitive environment as Steve just mentioned we have realized the single digit price increases through 2012.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say I guess as a quick follow-up that the environment still remains a little more competitive than what it perhaps was in the recent past? Yes I think that would be fair to say.
And your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just have a follow-up question on the U.S.
I think 2013 is first time in a long time that I think you called for flat birth.
Just wondered if you could add a little bit of color on what you may be seeing in terms of leading indicators just maybe hitting on some points versus the U.S.? Secondly is consumption subject to similar trend? I think the last couple of calls John we've talked about a slowing rate of decline in the negative trend we have seen on total birth in the U.S.
We believe that that coupled with some economic growth even if it's not strong should stabilize the absolute number of birth that occurs in 2013.
But I want to highlight that there's a fair amount of uncertainty around that prediction.
We've also seen a constant decline over the last 3 or 4 years in consumption on a per capita basis.
We do believe that that's probably going to continue in 2013 as I mentioned in the script.
But we believe we can offset the impact of that with anticipated market share gains particularly in the non-WIC segment.
And your question comes from the line of Tim Ramey of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to drill down a little bit on some of the timing differences you mentioned in China for the first half inventory levels and the comps being difficult.
Is that likely to produce a down quarter or just a moderated quarter? I know you don't like to give quarterly guidance but if you could give us some help on that.
I assume you're talking sales.
I mean as Kasper said I think we expect to see sales growth in the first half in the low single digits.
You're absolutely right that the comps are tough for China so that's going to show up in Asia/Latin America segment.
And given the importance of China to us it also affects the overall company.
But the first quarter will be tough because we're comparing against noticeably higher share that we had going into 2012 we're comparing against lower share going into 2013 than we had going into 2012.
And the second quarter is when the share decline was seen.
So we still have some impact from that but then we also saw the distributor inventories build and that's going to drive that.
But overall it's very low single-digits that we're expecting in the first half for the company's growth.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First one real quick use of cash.
Share repo used to be only for options offset.
But you obviously stepped it up this year.
Does this reflect a change in philosophy or were you just being opportunistic? We were being opportunistic in light of what had happened to the stock price during the year.
We took advantage of it and continued to believe in our long-term growth.
And we'll continue to be opportunistic depending on market situations.
If we get ahead of ourselves a little bit on future employee equity awards that's okay too.
But it really isn't a change dramatic change that we're going into here.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for that and then one more.
China's step-change program can you update us in terms of how many cities you're now fully resourced in and what your expansion plans are for 2013? I think Jason what we really want to say is that we've given a commitment that we will aim to achieve a full presence in about 400 cities by 2015.
And we are not straying away from that.
That's still our goal we are on track and we are confident that we will get there.
And just to remind you the numbers we've used before Jason which remains true we are currently in about 240 cities and remember that we define that as cities in which we have full sales and marketing presence and demand creation spend.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So it's comparable to your 2011 number of around 240 I think? I would point out though that that increase to the 240 occurred very late in the year.
So most of the year was spent really getting them up and running.
And your question comes from the line of Diane Geissler of CLSA.
I will take the next question from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my role here is to ask about non-China non-U.S.
business.
How much did you spend on the other markets? I think you had initially indicated 2012 maybe $0.08 to $0.10 where did that come in? And how much spending on those new markets or non-China emerging markets will occur in 2013? I think you're talking about what we call our seed markets which would be comprised of Russia India Brazil for the formula side of the business and Saudi Arabia our joint venture.
And we spent about -- had a loss of about $0.10 a share coming from those which was similar to what we had seen in the prior year.
We continue to view those as investment markets.
We would hope to be making some progress in the pipeline obviously but that could very well be turned around and reinvested back in the business in the New Year.
So we wouldn't necessarily expect to see a big change from the $0.10 level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still $0.10.
And then just a follow-up can you kind of just describe the -- if the promotional intensity in China is above where it was years ago but kind of I guess consistent the last couple of quarters I kind of -- I find it hard to believe that it would be the multinationals who've traditionally been very disciplined including yourself around category competitive dynamics.
So where is the additional promotion coming from in that market? I think it's broad-based and I think it includes the multinational competitors as we described on previous calls oftentimes to support relaunches or to support the clearance of products that will be replaced by those relaunches.
And I think we've talked about a slowdown in the category and I think in any market including in China when that occurs given the price that the China market represents you're going to see a tendency towards more promotion.
But as Kasper said we're not expecting it to intensify during 2013.
Research Division</strong> I guess if I could just sneak in a last one.
So to the extent that the pricing that you implemented earlier in China caused some surprising elasticity along with the economy there weakening on the reverse side as the industry promotes are you seeing a pickup in volume in some of the areas that had been initially hit back in I guess it was the second quarter of 2012? No I don't think we are seeing any particular impact on volume.
I think at the end of the day the -- particularly the infant formula business is relatively volume inelastic but obviously you can shift between manufacturers and brands.
I think just to add build on what Kasper said too if you're question is are we seeing volume improvement as our price promotion increase.
And I think the answer to that is yes the improvement in sales for the Asia/Lat Am segment that you see in the fourth quarter relative to the third is showing evidence of that.
Yes Eric just to be clear I was referencing total category in China.
I wasn't referencing Mead Johnson specifically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- I'm sorry so I'm a little bit confused.
So the pickup in the price promotion is helping your business gain -- recover some share category at least in infant formula isn't picking up.
But I thought that the elasticity hit in the second quarter of last year was more in the children's product.
And so that's I guess kind of more to the point.
Is that category seeing any pickup from the promotion that the industry is putting back in? Yes.
All right the children's category is a more discretionary product category and as a consequence will always be a little more price-elastic.
Although it is inelastic compared to most consumer products categories.
But remember the share loss we suffered in the first half of the year and described in full in previous calls was due to a very significant price difference between our brands and major multinational competitive brands for a short period of time.
And those types of differences in price are not expected to occur again in the future.
And your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma of the BMO Capital Markets.
Just want to focus on the Latin American segment.
So you mentioned that you liked it to be $1 billion in the sales by 2015.
So as that segment becomes a larger contributor to overall sales growth how should we think about its impact on margins? I mean given that most of the market in that segment are non-premium? And my view is that your operating structure there is not as bad as it is in Asian markets? We do a pretty good job at trying to maximize margins in the Latin America region.
They are a little bit lower than what we see in Asia.
But it's not significant and I don't think it's -- there's so many moving pieces when you look at margins moving forward.
I would not highlight that as one that would necessarily cause a big change for the company.
And as a quick follow-up.
Last call you mentioned you're entering into the Catalina couponing project is that a meaningful impact in the quarter? I mean obviously we do detailed analysis of all of our demand creation spend and we've been in the Catalina program for 6 months of every year for the last few years.
That period typically runs from September October through March.
And we obviously believe that it's a worthwhile activity for us.
And your next question will come from the line of David Driscoll of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> A couple of -- really just one question maybe a little bit long-winded.
Apologies for it but I want to establish at least some framework around what's happening in China and pricing.
So Steve by my calculations the Asian/Lat Am segment for the company has seen a cumulative price increase since 2006 of just over 40%.
In your North American and European segment that same number would be something like 17%.
So very dramatic differences in where the pricing has come over a long period of time.
When I just look at the Chinese market today and I get quotes and try to bring it wrapped to a U.S.
dollar price and making the adjustment for the smaller U.S.
can size a like-for-like price would be something like $30 for a U.S.
can size in China versus $24 on just about any website I go to today for Enfamil  in the United States about a 25% premium for that Chinese product.
So the simple point is that why shouldn't we be more concerned about this promotional activity in China as an ongoing issue? In the quarter I think you're segment -- that segment margins were down 150 basis points.
And I just want to hear your logic about your concern or not concerned about that absolute price point and why it wouldn't be logical for it to come under pressure given the U.S.
margin structure and pricing structure? Well David I appreciate the question.
It's a complicated question obviously to talk through.
But I think by and large there are not huge differences around the world on a price-per-kilo basis.
Now some of the differences are obviously impacted and exaggerated by differences in exchange rate.
So that it's very very difficult to do an accurate comparison on a U.S.
dollar basis per kilo.
And you must bear in mind that there are significant barriers to implication in many of these markets that reduces the possibility of train shipments if that's what you are alluding to.
Pete I don't know if you want to expand.
Sure.
Just a couple of points I would make.
Number one the 40% inflation over the period of time you quoted is equivalent to 6% per year and we all have to keep in mind that in emerging markets inflation has been running probably about that rate.
So we are not trying to get price increases faster than the overall rate of inflation in these markets.
And we all know too that wages are going up in China et cetera.
So -- and then with regard to the price that you mentioned in China you have to keep in mind that shelf price in China includes a 17% value added tax.
That accounts for most of the difference between the 2.
It's a difference in taxation systems between the United States and China.
I'm sorry we've got a lot of people in the queue and we're running out of time.
Operator who's next on the line? Your next question will come from the line of Diane Geissler of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about your -- the non-WIC business and your success in picking up business on that line.
And also just how the -- some of the media reports we've heard recently about hospitals limiting formula going home with new mothers et cetera how that impacts your customer generation model? Thanks Diane for that question.
Well I think our pickup in market share in the non-WIC segment really reflects 2 things.
It reflects the fact that the cohorts of babies that were affected by the late 2011 media event have aged out of the category.
So we've got some tailwinds because of that as we had explained to you I think right through the whole year of 2012 that this would turn.
And secondly we obviously continued to make operational improvements in the U.S.
business which we feel have a positive impact on our competitiveness.
Answering your question around hospital sampling let me just remind you that's not new.
We've been managing this trend through several years really.
And we don't believe that it will sort of have a material impact in the short term at least on the business.
There was a national survey recently which asked the consumers or parents what they thought about this and I just want to mention that just over 97% of parents agreed that hospital should provide a full educational information on both infant formula and breast-feeding in order to allow mothers themselves to make a more informed choice.
So I guess there'll be some balance to that discussion going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just clarify going back to the non-WIC is that just a snap back to prior market shares? And I guess why wouldn't 2013 sales and profits then at least on a core business excluding the contract manufacturing that you're getting out of why wouldn't 2013 look a lot like 2011? Well I think we did in the prepared script say that we expected market share -- non-WIC market share to strengthen through 2013.
What you should bear in mind is the fact that one of our competitors were very negatively affected and we positively benefited from their recall in the base year 2011.
So I guess that would be the major variance.
Thank you.
I want to turn this back to Steve because he has a few last minute prepared remarks before we close the call.
Not prepared remarks.
Simply to thank you for joining us for the call today and we look forward to seeing you in the near future.
Thank you operator.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Frances and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Frances and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's first quarter conference call.
With me today are Steve Golsby our Chief Executive Officer; Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Operating Officer and designated CEO-elect; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and current report on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that you are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and limit this call including Q&amp;A to 45 minutes.
I will now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As you likely read in our press release Mead Johnson delivered sales growth of 5% on a constant dollar basis in the first quarter.
Sales growth was 6% from our core operations which excludes the impact of several low-margin noncore businesses that we exited late last year.
We're very pleased with these results as we had expected a lower rate of sales growth due to the tough comparison to China's record results in the first quarter last year.
While China performed as expected with continued sequential share gains that Kasper will discuss in a minute the higher-than-anticipated sales are attributed to Hong Kong.
Sales in Hong Kong were particularly strong prior to the March introduction of new regulations that limited exports to China.
The Asia/Latin America segment delivered growth of 7% with 5% from organic growth and 2% from our 2012 Argentine acquisition.
The North America/Europe segment had another quarter of positive sales growth.
Excluding the impact of the noncore businesses that we exited in 2012 sales growth for the segment was 5%.
Overall sales for the first quarter set a new company record and reflect a very solid start to the year.
First quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.85 per share were up from $0.82 in 2012.
Higher sales and a lower effective tax rate helped to fund higher demand-generation investments and a pension settlement expense.
We are reaffirming our full year 2013 sales and earnings per share guidance.
Annual constant dollar sales from core operations are expected to grow in the range of 7% to 8% and non-GAAP EPS is still expected to be in the range of $3.22 to $3.30.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper who will provide more details on the business.
After Pete reviews the financials I will return to close our prepared remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
In order to better explain the underlying operating performance of the business I will focus on constant dollar sales growth from our ongoing core business.
As I discuss first quarter 2013 performance I'll remind you that for comparison purposes we are excluding from the base year quarter nonrecurring sales of approximately $10 million from businesses we exited at the end of last year.
This revenue relates to third-party manufacturing of the [ph] private label products in the U.S.
and a smaller nonviable routine infant formula business in Western Europe where we are now focusing on winning the allergy segment.
Following my comments Pete will bridge the core sales numbers to the sales growth rates reported in our earnings release this morning.
Our core sales growth of 6% can be attributed to higher pricing the majority of which was a carryover effect from prior year increases.
As we discussed in our last call for the full year we expect a more balanced contribution from price and volume.
In the coming quarters we therefore expect to report improved volume growth as our comparisons to 2012 become easier.
Turning now to our reporting segments.
In the quarter just completed the North America/Europe segment excluding the impact of discontinued noncore businesses from base year 2012 grew 5% due to share gains in higher-value segments and despite overall volumes being flat.
Gains in U.S.
non-WIC market share helped offset further declines in consumption.
Innovation in high-potential product segments helped drive growth.
And with solid growth across the portfolio the contributions from Enfagrow our product for toddlers and from the launch of new liquid offerings are particularly noteworthy.
Overall we expect continued share gains in high-value segments combined with pricing benefits to offset declines in infant formula consumption.
Continued momentum behind successful innovations introduced in the second half of 2012 has also allowed us to strengthen market share in Canada and that very significantly over the last 6 months.
EBIT margin in the North America/Europe segment as Pete will explain later improved significantly over the first quarter of 2012.
I will add that while Europe constitutes a smaller portion of the reporting segment we are happy to report that we're already seeing an improvement in profitability there as a result of last year's restructuring.
While core sales growth there stood at 5% for the first quarter on a full year basis we now expect that sales for the North America/Europe segment will be up by about 1% slightly better than our previous expectations.
As you assess the balance of the year please bear in mind that the second quarter of 2012 sales were up 11% versus the first quarter of 2012.
This means that the year-over-year comparisons will be a little tougher in the coming quarter.
Turning now to Asia and to the Latin America segments.
As Steve mentioned this segment delivered constant dollar sales growth of 7% 5% from organic growth and 2% from the Argentine acquisition we completed in March of 2012.
Pricing contributed 6% and volume 1% to segment growth.
The tough China comparables from the first quarter of 2012 had a significant impact on reported volume growth.
And I remind you that quarter 1 was our strongest quarter in China last year driven by higher market shares and some unintended increase in distributor inventory levels.
Within the just completed quarter China performed as expected and we posted our third consecutive quarter of share improvement since our low in the second quarter of 2012.
We're encouraged by this continued progress and we remain confident in the outlook for China for the balance of 2013.
You'll recall that we saw a drop in market share during the second quarter of 2012 that led to a significant increase in distributor inventories.
As a result comparables for China will remain soft in the coming quarter.
But since distributor inventories were brought back to normal levels in the second half of 2012 our comparisons in the second half of 2013 will be easier.
Turning now to Hong Kong.
In February we highlighted increased uncertainty created by a new Hong Kong export regulation.
We hold a leading share position in Hong Kong and hence we are paying close attention to the developments there.
The likelihood of government action to limit exports was widely discussed in local media ahead of the March 1 implementation date.
Consequently sales in Hong Kong were particularly strong in January and February ahead of the new regulations going into effect.
In the first 6 weeks since the new rules took hold we have seen a meaningful drop in sales in the territory.
As we are still in the early phase post implementation it's difficult to assess to what degree this reduced level of retail demand will persist through the balance of the year.
But we do expect Hong Kong sales in the coming quarters to be below those reported in the first quarter.
You can understand our desire to avoid discussing future plans in detail on these calls so I want to resist the temptation to do so.
I can however say that we are working on multiple fronts to ensure we can continue to meet the China consumers' desire for trusted products.
And as a result while we remain cautious on the Hong Kong outlook for the full year I do want to highlight the importance of putting this challenge in the context of strong performance in other parts of our global portfolio including Mainland China.
I'd now like to spend a few minutes on our businesses in South Asia and Latin America.
Collectively these businesses which account for approximately 40% of global revenue once again delivered double-digit sales growth this quarter.
Growth was broad-based with a majority of markets seeing increased market share in the quarter.
Revenue in Mexico our third largest global market grew by double digits its strongest performance for some time.
And in South Asia we improved market share in Thailand and Vietnam.
Therefore while we remain cautious on -- about the situation in Hong Kong we expect strength in other markets to support our expectations for full year double-digit revenue growth in the Asia/Latin America segment.
Within the quarter we increased investment in demand generation substantially over the first quarter of 2012.
This is the main driver of our reported drop in the Asia/Latin America segment EBIT margin.
To wrap up I am commenting now on our global business I'm pleased with the start we made to the year.
As mentioned by Steve we continue to expect core sales growth to be in the range of 7% to 8% for the year with higher growth rates to be reported in the second half of 2013 when comparisons become easier.
We continue to expect full year non-GAAP EPS in between $3.22 and $3.30.
Now before I turn the call over to Pete I'd like on behalf of all of the management of Mead Johnson to express my personal gratitude to Steve for his leadership and guidance over the years.
Steve you're leaving a growing business with a strong team and its best year is yet to come.
We are thankful for what you've helped us accomplish and we look forward to your continued involvement as a board member.
I will now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial highlights.
Pete? Thank you Kasper and good morning everyone.
I'll start with some brief comments on the impact of noncore businesses on sales growth and then move on to discuss foreign exchange profitability and liquidity.
In the first quarter we reported constant dollar sales growth of 6% for our core operations.
The impact from the noncore businesses exited late last year reduced our growth rate by 1%.
So total sales in the first quarter grew by 5%.
The full year noncore impact is also expected to reduce sales growth by 1%.
Therefore reported constant dollar sales are expected to grow by 6% to 7% in 2013.
Turning to foreign exchange.
In our last call I noted that our greatest currency exposure was in Venezuela and Argentina and that we expected foreign exchange would reduce sales growth by about 0.5 point in 2013.
The Venezuelan Government devalued the bolivar by about 30% in February and we also saw the Argentine peso weaken at a rate of about 5% in the first quarter a trend we expect to continue through the remainder of the year.
The impact of these 2 currencies was included in our prior earnings guidance.
Please note however that a more significant devaluation of the Argentine peso and a further devaluation in Venezuela remain a distinct possibility and present some downside risk to our numbers for the year.
At this point we expect foreign exchange to have no impact on our full year sales in 2013.
The change relative to our prior guidance is attributed to a weakening of the dollar against a few key Asian currencies most notably the Thai baht and the Chinese renminbi.
In the first quarter we delivered a gross margin of 62.3% 20 basis points better than the same quarter last year and in line with our expectation.
Equally important our first quarter gross margin was up 120 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Let me offer some comments on dairy which accounts for about 30% of our product costs.
Dairy prices included in our first quarter cost of goods sold as expected fell to the lowest level seen in the last 1.5 years.
In the next 2 quarters we will see modest dairy increases in our cost of goods sold.
Given the 7-month lag between what happens in the spot market and our COG all these movements really reflect spot price trends seen in the second half of last year or in the first months of 2013.
More recently the Oceania spot price trends have been unfavorable reflecting a drought in New Zealand and whole and skim milk spot prices were up by as much as 30% during the month of March.
In Europe prices have started to rise but at a much slower pace reflecting unseasonably cold weather.
U.S.
milk prices have not yet increased but that remains a possibility looking forward.
We expect the recent increase in dairy costs to be reflected in our cost of goods sold during the fourth quarter.
A greater impact is likely in 2014 although expected higher pricing should help mitigate the impact.
Annual cost inflation should now be in the mid single digits but thanks to a strong productivity pipeline we still anticipate our average full year gross margin to approach 62.5% solid progress from 61.9% in 2012.
Kasper mentioned the higher level of demand-generation investments in the first quarter of 2013.
An example of that was seen with the company's advertising and promotion spend at 13.9% of sales in the first quarter noticeably higher than the same quarter a year ago.
During the remaining of the year we expect the pace of our investment spending for advertising and promotion to pick up relative to the first quarter and A&amp;P on a full year basis should exceed the 14.2% of sales in 2012.
On a full year basis we currently expect total operating expenses to exceed 39% of sales up from 38.2% in the first quarter and from 38.7% in 2012.
In addition to more significant demand-generation investments we have an impact albeit much smaller from 2 other factors.
First the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar generated foreign exchange balance sheet remeasurement losses of about $0.01 per share.
This occurred in the first quarter and had been anticipated in our previous guidance.
Second pension settlement expense had a $0.02 unfavorable impact in the first quarter.
This expense was triggered under accounting rules for our frozen defined benefit pension plan when lump sum payments exceed annual pension expense thereby forcing the immediate amortization of any deferred expenses for those retirees.
Last year the expense was triggered in the second quarter.
We expect that full year pension settlement expense will be up versus earlier expectation by about $0.01.
On a full year basis we expect EBIT margins to be relatively flat to 2012 with higher gross margins being reinvested back into the business.
Turning to taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR for the first quarter was 25.6% nearly a 200-basis-point reduction from the 27.5% seen in the first quarter of 2012.
The decision to hold more of our international earnings outside the U.S.
is the main driver.
We should be able to make further progress in reducing our global tax rate and expect the full year ETR to be around 25% for 2013.
Before moving to our balance sheet and liquidity I wanted to note that our expectation for full year non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3.22 to $3.30 per share would imply on average that we would see quarterly EPS in the range of $0.79 to $0.82 per share for the next 3 quarters.
That's obviously down from the $0.85 seen in the first quarter.
This is largely due to a ramp-up in demand-generation investment during the remainder of the year.
Capital spending consumed $78 million in cash during the first quarter half of which was the result of high payables at year-end 2012.
Capital spending expectations remain unchanged at $260 million for the year with the Singapore spray dryer driving a considerable portion of our full year investment.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $80 million.
During the first quarter we reduced total debt by $67 million with repayments on our revolver as well as a small portion of the debt incurred for the acquisition in Argentina.
We now expect interest expense to run at about $55 million for the year or savings of about $0.01 per share versus our earlier expectation.
Cash balances dropped by $25 million from last December largely as a result of our debt repayment.
Net debt now stands at $626 million down from $658 million at year-end 2012.
During the first quarter our Board of Directors announced a 13% increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.30 to $0.34 per share.
We also purchased 300 000 shares of our stock returning an additional $23 million in cash to shareholders.
With that I will now turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
So in summary we delivered a very solid performance in the first quarter and remain positive about our outlook for the full year.
As you are aware I shall retire as CEO of Mead Johnson at our annual meeting of stockholders next week.
I look back on the 9 years during which I've been privileged to lead this great company with pride.
The business has been truly transformed.
And since our 2009 IPO we've been able to create significant value for our shareholders more than tripling our market cap.
While our performance in recent years has been strong I'm confident that under Kasper's leadership and with the support of an outstanding board leadership team and global workforce the future for Mead Johnson is even brighter.
The fundamental drivers of our business our strategic focus and our superior business model give me great confidence.
And I'm delighted to have been nominated to continue to serve as a director of the board and retain a connection to the company.
Finally I'd like to thank our shareholders and the analyst community for their personal support and more importantly their support of Mead Johnson over the last 4 years.
I wish you all continued success.
Now we'll be pleased to take your questions.
Operator please open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] That question will come from the line of Mr.
Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to make sure I understood the guidance for the second quarter.
My head is spinning a little bit with the earnings this morning.
Were you talking about maybe perhaps the second quarter street numbers are a little bit higher than what you would be looking for right now? I think what Kasper spoke on first of all was the fact that the comparisons are going to remain tough in the second quarter.
If you look at for North America/Europe segment through the last 3 quarters of the year sales were actually up 8% versus the level we saw in Q1.
So that makes that comparison a bit tougher.
And then for the Asia/LatAm segment remember we still have a tough comparison in China until it turns around in the second half.
Your next question will come from the line of Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just -- sorry question on China.
We've heard from some of your competitors that the rate of underlying consumption at least as far as they're observing it may have accelerated by a few hundred basis points over the course of the past quarter or 2.
Do you see any similar evidence of higher underlying demand in Mainland China? Or I guess alternatively do you think there's been any measurable pantry stocking by Chinese consumers that may have occurred as Hong Kong sales spiked in the early part of the year? We're not seeing any noticeable change in consumption in the China market and I think given the characteristics of the category you wouldn't really expect to see wide fluctuations in consumption on a quarterly or monthly basis.
At the end of the day it's a -- it's quite a stable category that is sort of driven by the number of babies born into certain segments of the population.
So we haven't seen any dramatic change.
We still think the market remains very attractive.
It's growing but we wouldn't prefer to view that that growth has accelerated in recent months or quarters.
Research Division</strong> And just with respect to the risk of inventory perhaps having built up at the consumer level over the course of the past 2 or 3 months? We don't see any evidence of that.
I -- we spoke a little bit to the dynamic obviously ahead of the announcement of the Hong Kong export restriction.
I think that was a sort of relatively unique situation that affected positively probably the first couple of months of this year.
But in the greater scheme of things and given the size of the market in China we don't believe that that should be something that shouldn't be easily absorbed.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Pete what was the actual share count for the quarter? And what would be kind of contained in your guidance? Should we assume share repurchases basically offsetting options issuance? We -- on a fully diluted basis we had 204.3 million shares in the first quarter.
And while we did buy back some shares during the quarter that's not going to have that big of an impact on the rate if you move forward.
So something around that level I think is a good assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other question on the pension discontinuity.
So just to restate what I think I heard you say -- said there was a $0.02 negative impact in the 1Q but then the 2Q will have a slightly favorable year-over-year impact.
But the full year will be negative by a $0.01.
Did I get all that right? Yes there was no pension settlement expense in the first quarter of last year.
We had $0.02 this quarter so it drove that first quarter performance.
And I think the $0.01 that we talked about for the full year really reflects that it's going to be higher versus our earlier expectation.
And these numbers can bounce around a little depending on when people take -- when people actually retire quarter-to-quarter but it's really last year's number plus an additional $0.01.
Your next question is from the line of David Driscoll from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Steve I'd just like to say thank you for all that you've done.
You've been a pleasure to work with.
Terrific performance at the company.
And really good luck on your next ventures or just retirement.
I'm not sure exactly where you're going but well you've earned it.
Thanks.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit about Hong Kong.
And maybe the first kind of big picture question is just given your comments that Hong Kong sales are being impacted and then Pete your comments that dairy costs are rising particularly in the fourth quarter it's not immediately clear to me why the guidance isn't moving or if you're not giving a signal to the lower end of the range or exactly what the offsets are.
So maybe you guys could just start there and give us some understanding as to what those variables mean to the guidance.
David I think maybe I'll comment first and then I'll let Pete try and reconcile for you if I don't get it quite right.
I think what we are -- we are certainly still operating in the very early phase post implementation as I mentioned in the prepared remarks.
And yes we are seeing an impact from sales but we must put this in the context of the fact that we have got a global business.
And we are seeing strengths in other part of our business that we believe unless there's a change in the outlook in Hong Kong will offset the weakness we are seeing -- we've seen over the last 4 to 6 weeks there.
So I guess that is implied in the fact that we are not changing guidance we are sticking to the guidance.
Within that there's always going to be swings and roundabouts but we feel pretty good about where the guidance is.
Pete do you want to add anything? I think that's an excellent summary of it.
And the high end of our range assumes that we are able to offset that impact completely the lower end of our range in terms of sales growth would assume a bigger impact from Hong Kong.
And would also point out as Kasper mentioned that the North America/Europe segment -- and granted we had been saying last time that core sales there should be flat year-over-year as higher non-WIC market share offset the impact of lower consumption.
We're now seeing it's up 1%.
That doesn't have a big impact on the overall growth rate of the company but it's still a good trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could ask one final question on North America.
Our Nielsen data is showing quite dramatic market share gains for Nestlé under their GERBER brand share declines for both Mead and Abbott.
You reported I think that numbers are -- in the quarter are up and I'm just trying to understand.
I know there was the very weak -- or the year-ago numbers were very weak because of the fourth quarter issue in '11.
But notwithstanding that type of issue can you just talk about the market share environment in the United States? And what's driving these substantial share gains for Nestlé? And how concerned are you? Yes I think it's very hard for you guys to read much into the Nielsen numbers because they don't distinguish between what constitutes a sale under WIC and what constitutes a non-WIC sale.
So in our prepared remarks we spoke to -- specifically to the non-WIC market share which is a better indication I guess of our share of the profit pool.
So we feel pretty good about that.
We feel good about the progress we have made both over a year ago where you're correct in pointing out that we had a relatively easy comparable but we also feel good about the sequential process -- progress that we are making in the U.S.
business and for that matter in Canada.
And just to add a point on the WIC contract.
Nestlé's gain is all we believe coming from WIC.
They picked up the A&amp;N [ph] contract from us last year late last year and that's what's driving their increase.
When we talk because the WIC contracts aren't profitable as we've mentioned we really focus on the non-WIC share for driving the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper is there a way to quantify the impact of the Hong Kong buy-in on the first quarter numbers? No I don't think we want to go into quantifying it.
There's just too much uncertainty about what the longer-term trend there would be.
It would mean that we would have to try and net off January February against either a relatively short period in March or we'd have to net it off against what we think is going to happen in the future.
So we -- I think we want to probably stick with the comment that there's an increased demand of uncertainty around it.
We'll continue to be very candid with you about it as we learn more and as we see things change and develop there.
Certainly our view is that at the moment it's manageable within our global guidance.
And as I said again we have pluses and minuses throughout our portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thinking about the other developing markets where you're...
John I'm really sorry.
We -- I'm very cognizant that we only have about 10 more minutes and there's many people in the queue.
I'll follow up with you later.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The way I had interpreted what Nestlé and Danone were saying was that consumers were -- in Mainland China were concerned that they weren't going to be able to get their hands on premium-priced product now that the border with Hong Kong closed and then you saw headlines of the shelves being empty in the U.K.
So you haven't seen any kind of unusual activity in other Asian markets of yours or even European markets in terms of that kind of growth accelerating with mainlanders trying to find your product in other markets since they can't get it from Hong Kong? The short answer is no.
We don't have a large business in the routine infant formula area in Europe as you know.
In fact we have no business in that area in Western Europe and we have smaller emerging businesses in Poland and Russia only.
It's our understanding that most of these Internet-based sales are coming from either Australia and New Zealand or Western Europe.
We feel very very good about our China performance in this quarter and we feel that that is very very sustainable.
We're making sort of sequential progress as we promised since our hiccup in the middle of last year.
We don't think there are any abnormal factors that have impacted performance in Mainland China over this quarter we just completed.
So we're not seeing those dynamics that I've heard other competitors describe.
Research Division</strong> It's just a tough comp in Mainland China? That's right.
Your next question will come from the line Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
Kasper I just wanted to look at Asia/LatAm margins short term or longer term.
I mean clearly very strong operating margins.
But if you look at last 3 4 years margins peaked in 2009 and they've been flat to lower since then.
And now as we look forward you're talking about greater contribution from the rest of your markets in Asia Southeast South Asia and Latin America where margins are -- true may not be as strong as it is in Hong Kong China.
Structurally should we expect margins to sort of level out at this level that we saw in 2012 or first Q? Or should we expect some sort of a modest improvement from here? Amit I think I'll ask -- even though you directed the question to me I think I'll ask Pete to answer that.
Sure.
I think that any margin trend we're seeing in Asia/Latin America this year let me just talk very near term is going to be driven by the level of investment spending that we have not by gross margins or anything else.
And I think we would say looking forward the pricing that we see in markets like China is relatively high measured in dollar terms.
A lot of that is driven by exchange rates.
But we wouldn't be extrapolating from that that you should expect margins -- that margin to go necessarily higher.
We intend to be making heavier investments over time in those emerging markets and that will probably keep a check on it.
And Pete mix will not have an impact on margins? That's my understanding from your answer.
For the company? For this division.
It can quarter-to-quarter.
But over the course of this year I think we're going to have some good comparisons coming in in the second half.
The China mix for this year is going to be pretty healthy.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on your demand-generating expenses and what is all entailed in that.
Is there -- are you seeing anything in terms of pricing promotional activity in that area around Hong Kong that's causing you concern? Or is most of the demand generation that you see right now really in the form of advertising or some other kind of promotional activity? And then just on that area that's contiguous to Hong Kong what are your market shares like in that area? It's obviously a well-developed area from the formula perspective.
I'm just trying to get a feeling for how you compete against the other big multinationals and some of the larger China -- Chinese producers there in that region.
Sure.
First with regard to demand-generation investments when we talk about that we're talking about advertising and promotion.
Promotion does not mean discounting.
It's really the investment side of it.
Anything along those lines of promotional programs to help move volume would be treated as a reduction in sales and the environment that we're seeing is quite stable at this point with no downside.
So when we talk about heavier demand-generation spending it's advertising probably for the most part in Asia/LatAm.
In terms of the south of China we haven't given a specific number for our market share there but it's noticeably higher than what we see for the country overall which is in the mid-teens.
Your next question is from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'll echo the sentiment of others and say congratulations Steve and same to you Kasper.
A couple of quick questions.
It sounds like a lot of the growth is coming from online.
What prevents you from getting European packaged product into that channel? I don't think technically there's anything preventing us from doing that should we decide to do so.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we did not want to get into discussing future plans.
I'm sure you can understand that.
So I just want to say that we recognize that there's a demand in China for trusted product.
We think that that will necessitate a multipronged approach and we are pursuing several initiatives to make sure that we can meet that consumer demand.
Research Division</strong> And one quick housekeeping question.
Last year there was some shipment dislocation in your broader China/Hong Kong business.
Do you have a sense or can you give us a sense of how much of a drag on growth that was in China/Hong Kong this quarter and what you expect it to be next quarter? In terms of inventory dislocations there was some bad weather at the end of '11 that led to a little bit higher goods and trends at the end of '11 that affected the first quarter but it was very very very minor.
So we wouldn't -- and we don't see any inventory -- any significant distributor inventory impact in the first quarter.
There was some but it's small.
Most of it is coming in the second quarter.
Your next question is from the line of Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
[Technical Difficulty] Bryan? Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
Just a question about the competitive landscape in China.
Just simply last year there was a little bit more I don't know what the right word is promotional activity or promotional intensity from some of your competitors in China.
Has that continued in the first quarter? Or as your market share has increased has that also come at a -- as you've been able to kind of pull back a little bit on the promotional intensity? No I don't think that the promotional intensity has changed at all.
I think Pete just alluded to it when we talked -- when Diana asked the questions about the A&amp;P spend.
The promotional environment in China has now been pretty stable I would say over the last 9 months or so really.
So we're not seeing an acceleration of price discounting for instance or other things like that.
It's a pretty stable environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just -- Steve I just want to say congratulations.
Wish you all the best.
It's been great working with you.
Likewise Bryan.
Thank you very much.
And operator with that we've taken up the allotted amount of time.
Thanks once again everybody and best wishes for the future.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Kathy MacDonald.
Again thank you for your participation in today's conference.
Operator this concludes the call.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tehitia and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Tehitia.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's second quarter conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that you are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and limit this call including Q&amp;A to 45 minutes.
Please note in the consolidated statement of cash flow table the date should have read in our press release this morning June 30 instead of March 30.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper who the Board of Directors officially appointed as our President and CEO subsequent to our last quarterly earnings call.
Over to you Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Let me start by highlighting our operating performance in the second quarter before I turn the call over to Pete who will provide additional financial analysis.
After Pete's comments I'll then wrap up with some brief more general comments before we take questions.
Addressing now our second quarter performance.
We are pleased with our results which were broadly in line with expectations outlined in last quarter's call.
As you likely read in this morning's press release we delivered sales growth of 4% on a constant-dollar basis.
Non-GAAP earnings per share came in at $0.84 per share up from $0.83 in the second quarter of 2012.
Higher sales and a modest increase in gross margin allowed us to significantly increase investment in demand creation.
Advertising and promotional spending approached 16% of sales a 200 basis points increase from the prior quarter.
We are now investing in future growth at levels that are higher than at any time since our IPO in 2009.
Sales growth was 5% from our core operations excluding the impact of non-core businesses discontinued late in 2012.
Price increases in the high inflation markets of Venezuela and Argentina contributed 1 percentage point to total company constant-dollar growth within the quarter.
Going forward we expect continued depreciation of both countries' currencies to offset any benefit of such growth in the second half of 2013.
My following comments will focus mainly on the performance of ongoing core operations.
In our last 2 calls we said we expected to see a better balance between volume and pricing growth in 2013.
This was evident in the second quarter with core volume growth at 3% and growth from price slightly lower at 2%.
In the first quarter of 2013 sales growth came entirely from pricing gains.
Turning now to the performance of our 2 operating -- or sorry reporting segments and firstly to the North America/Europe segment.
In the second quarter again excluding the impact of businesses we discontinued in 2012 sales for the North America/Europe segment were in line with prior year.
Pricing was up 2% while volumes declined by the same amount.
There were a number of factors at work during the quarter.
Firstly the category continued to shrink in North America.
We estimate by about 1% in volume terms due to declining consumption.
The rate of decline however slowed from what was an estimated 3% in 2012.
Secondly as we indicated in our last call segment comparisons this quarter were tougher than those seen in the first quarter.
Encouragingly sales in the second quarter were 5% above sales in the first quarter of the year.
Sequential growth was driven by increased non-WIC market share in the U.S.
and continued market share improvement in Canada.
These improvements are the result of us having strengthened our product portfolio in both countries over the last year.
We expect full year constant-dollar sales growth from core operations in North America/Europe in the low-single -- to grow in the low-single digits.
Our outlook for this segment represents a slight improvement over the view offered 3 months ago.
Before turning to our emerging markets let me highlight the improvement we've seen year-to-date with EBIT margins in North America and Europe improving nearly 400 basis points from the first half of 2012 to 21.5% in the last quarter.
Higher gross margins were the main driver of our EBIT improvement.
Gross margin benefited from recent price increase in the U.S.
as well as from lower commodity costs.
Reduced infrastructure costs in Europe also impacted our EBIT margins positively.
Strong margins allowed us to maintain advertising and promotion spend at rates within the segment above the company average and slightly above first half 2012 levels.
This reflects our continued confidence in the long-term prospects of the North American market as we await the recovery in births.
Turning now to the Asia/Latin America segment.
This segment delivered constant-dollar sales growth of 8% with 6% coming from volume.
This was an improvement over 1% volume growth in the first quarter.
This improvement came as our operations in China returned to volume growth after 3 consecutive quarters of decline.
As we've mentioned in the past following an unanticipated buildup of inventory in China in the first half of 2012 we reduced shipments to our distributors in the second half last year to bring inventories back to normal levels by year end.
As a result we'll face an easier comparable in the coming 2 quarters and sales growth for the Asia/Latin America segment should be well into double digits in the second half of this year.
Our market share in China has now been stable for more than 4 months and we believe we've now put our 2012 challenge firmly behind us.
As you would have noticed there's been significant industry news out of both China and Hong Kong this year.
Let me start with a very brief update on the Hong Kong situation.
On a sequential basis sales in the second quarter were lower than those of the first quarter of 2013 as a result of the Hong Kong export restrictions becoming effective only on March 1.
Sales in Hong Kong were particularly strong in the first quarter ahead of implementation of these restrictions.
So this impact was fully anticipated.
We're pleased I note that sales have stabilized in the second quarter and on a full year basis we still expect to show sales growth relative to prior year.
We understand the Hong Kong government will review the regulations again in October.
Our outlook is however not assuming any change to the current restrictions.
Turning now to Mainland China.
As mentioned in our recent press release and 8-K filing we continue to cooperate fully with China's National Development and Reform Commission the NDRC in its antitrust review of resale prices.
In agreement with the NDRC we recently agreed to reduce the price of certain products by 7% to 15% and these reductions will become effective mid-July.
As we adjust these prices in China we'll continue to optimize our sales marketing and promotional plans.
We'll continue to maintain our competitiveness and ensure that we offer good value to Chinese consumers.
We pride ourselves on 20 years of manufacturing in China and we look forward to the next 20 years.
We remain committed to playing a positive and responsible role in China's continued development.
I'd now like to spend a moment on other markets in Asia and our markets in Latin America.
Both subregions continue to grow.
In South Asia we continued to deliver market share gains in Thailand Malaysia and Vietnam.
We believe we are positioned for strengthening sales growth in the second half of 2013.
Excellent and broad-based progress was once again seen across Latin America.
In a growing category we continue to gain market share in many markets including in Mexico our largest market.
We continue to build infant formula market share in Brazil and across the Andean region we continued to see similar strong growth.
You'll notice that Asia and Latin America EBIT margins are down 260 basis points versus the second quarter of prior year.
The vast majority of this reduction in segment margin was the result of increased investment in demand generation.
As in the case of North America this is reflective of our overall strategy to invest behind identified growth opportunities.
We currently expect Asia/Latin America constant-dollar sales to grow in double digits on a full year basis.
In summary I'm pleased with our global performance in the first half of 2013.
We've successfully defended our leading position in China/Hong Kong.
We've seen the Hong Kong situation stabilize as we move through the second quarter.
Growth in South Asia and Latin America in aggregate remains in double digits and we've seen share improvements in North America.
We recognize it's difficult to estimate the final impact of the list price reduction in China and what it will mean for full year sales growth for the Asia/Latin America segment.
However lower prices in China may well reduce the need for short-term promotional activity there.
And we are seeing stronger-than-expected performance in many of our other emerging markets as well as in North America and Europe.
On a full year basis we therefore expect constant-dollar sales from our core operations to grow around 8%.
Our exit in late 2012 from certain non-core businesses will reduce 2013 reported constant-dollar sales growth by about 1 percentage point.
We reiterate our expectation that non-GAAP EPS will be between $3.22 and $3.30 per share.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial analysis.
I will then return to provide some closing remarks before we begin the Q&amp;A.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
I'll start with brief comments on the impact of non-core businesses on sales growth then move on to discuss foreign exchange profitability and liquidity before wrapping up with a summary and our updated guidance.
In the second quarter we reported constant-dollar sales growth of 5% for our core operations.
The impact from the non-core businesses exited late last year reduced our growth rate by 1% so total sales in the second quarter grew by 4%.
I'm going to keep my comments largely to our non-GAAP results but I would point out that GAAP earnings were $0.80 per share in the quarter down $0.01 from $0.81 in the prior year.
As you can see in our press release legal settlements and related costs make up the majority of our second quarter specified costs which are excluded from non-GAAP financials and include a small charge related to the China antitrust review.
Turning to foreign exchange.
During the quarter our sales benefited from a weaker dollar compared to the prior year in our 4 largest markets outside the U.S.: China Mexico the Philippines and Thailand.
This mitigated the impact to the first quarter devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar along with continued weakening of the Argentine peso.
As a result foreign exchange had a negligible impact on sales growth in total during the second quarter.
There are also foreign exchange impacts from balance sheet remeasurement that can influence our financial results.
There were no significant balance sheet remeasurement gains or losses this past quarter while in the second quarter of 2012 there was a net gain of $12 million.
This favorably impacted last year's earnings by $0.04 per share.
The dollar has strengthened against most currencies this past month and as Kasper mentioned we expect further erosion in the value of the Venezuelan bolivar later this year.
We therefore anticipate foreign exchange will reduce second half sales by 2% a headwind compared to our first half performance.
On a full year basis foreign exchange is now anticipated to result in sales decline of 1%.
During our last conference call I highlighted that we expected no foreign exchange impact on sales this year.
Full year EPS is reduced by about $0.02 a share versus earlier expectations.
In the second quarter we delivered a gross margin of 63.6% 40 basis points better than in 2012 and up 130 basis points sequentially versus the first quarter.
The improvement is completely attributed to our North American/Europe segment where we saw the benefit of higher pricing lower average dairy and other commodity prices and strong productivity gains.
On a year-to-date basis our gross margin stood at 63%.
Last quarter we noted that dairy prices had jumped significantly due to a drought in New Zealand earlier this year.
We've seen the Oceania spot prices retreat somewhat from the peak in April but global spot prices across the U.S.
Europe and Asia Pacific have stabilized at a level significantly higher than the beginning of the year.
Given the 7 months lag between what happens in the spot market and our cost of goods sold we expect to see lower gross margins in the fourth quarter.
A greater impact is likely in 2014 although we expect higher pricing and productivity should help mitigate some of the impact.
On a full year basis we expect 2013 gross margins of about 62.5%.
Operating expenses for the quarter came in at just under 41% of net sales for the quarter compared to 38% in 2002 (sic) [2012].
There were 2 key factors at work.
The increased advertising and promotion spend that Kasper mentioned was the most significant factor.
In addition the balance sheet remeasurement gain in the second quarter of 2012 reduced the spending level seen last year.
On a full year basis we expect that total operating expenses will be near 39.5% of sales the same level as seen in the first half of 2013.
That is up from 38.7% in 2012.
Higher demand-generation investments coupled with the higher pension and -- pension settlement and bonus accruals are the key drivers.
Please note that full year advertising and promotion spending is also expected to run near the 14.9% level seen in the first half of the year.
Note that with gross margins of about 62.5% and operating expenses of 39.5% of sales EBIT margins would be around 23% for the full year close to the levels seen in 2012.
Turning to taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR for the first half of 2013 is 24.9% a 180-basis-point improvement from the 26.7% seen in the second quarter of 2012.
The decision to hold more of our international earnings outside the U.S.
is the main driver.
We anticipate making further progress in reducing our global tax rate and now expect the full year ETR to be in the range of 24.5% to 25% for 2013.
Net income for the quarter of $171 million was basically in line with the prior year.
Non-GAAP EPS grew $0.01 to $0.84 per share on a slightly lower share base.
The benefit of top line growth a higher gross margin and a lower effective tax rate were reinvested back into the business with $0.10 per share in increased demand generation and Research and Development spending.
Moving to our balance sheet and liquidity.
Liquidity was quite strong with $283 million in free cash flow in the first half of the year.
That's excellent performance given we consumed $117 million in cash for capital spending.
Strong working capital performance was a key factor particularly accounts payable management.
For the full year we continue to project CapEx at $260 million.
Spending for the Singapore spray dryer is expected to consume more than half of our capital budget for the year.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $88 million in 2013.
During the second quarter total debt dropped by $69 million largely as we reduced borrowings under our short-term revolver bringing the year-to-date short-term debt reduction to $134 million.
Also we paid off the final tranche of our borrowing for the Argentine acquisition during the month of July a bit earlier than expected following the receipt of antitrust approval from local regulators.
We now expect interest expense to run in the low $50 million range for the year.
We repurchased 250 000 shares of stock in the second quarter which brings our year-to-date buyback to 550 000 shares.
The share buyback coupled with dividends returned $173 million in cash to shareholders in the first half or over 60% of our free cash flow.
Before I turn the call back to Kasper let me summarize our current outlook for the year.
We expect constant-dollar sales growth will be about 8% for the core business in 2013.
Reported sales will grow at 6% after taking the impact of both foreign exchange and non-core operations into account.
The 7% to 15% price reduction that Kasper highlighted in China will reduce annual sales by about $55 million to $65 million.
In 2013 we will see a half year impact with a sales risk in the low $30 million range before any offsets.
Please note that this pricing impact is included in our non-GAAP guidance.
We anticipate 3 positive factors that will mitigate the impact in the second half.
First we're seeing higher growth relative to earlier expectations in the developed markets of the U.S.
and Canada from share gains and the emerging markets outside of China and Hong Kong account for over 40% of total sales.
Growth in these markets has also exceeded our prior estimates.
Second we believe that our lower prices in China may result in a somewhat reduced level of promotional activity.
And finally Hong Kong has stabilized at a level higher than we anticipated last quarter.
Our non-GAAP EPS guidance remains unchanged at $3.22 to $3.30 per share.
As detailed in our press release we would expect that GAAP EPS will range from $3.16 to $3.24 per share excluding any incremental impact from the China antitrust review.
Note that incremental legal settlements and related costs if any would be treated as a specified cost excluded from our non-GAAP earnings.
At this point we cannot predict what the final resolution from the investigation will be but we would note it could be material to the operating results of the company in the quarter in which it occurs.
Most important we do not believe it is material to the business or financial condition of the company.
With regard to the timing of any charge discussions with the NDRC continue on a regular basis with the next meeting scheduled in the near future.
Although it's difficult to predict when this matter will be resolved we obviously hope for a prompt resolution.
With that I now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'd like to just make a few more general comments.
We remain committed to our articulated strategy which has us focusing on pediatric nutrition.
We retain this focus because we see great long-term potential for growth within the space.
At a recent meeting of our global business leaders I shared the following thoughts.
I shared a commitment to leveraging our smaller size and singular focus for competitive advantage.
Our singular focus should allow us to understand our consumers and their needs better than any other company.
And our smaller size should allow us to connect better across organizational layers and communicate better across functional and geographic borders.
This will permit us to speed up decision-making and will ultimately allow us to act with greater agility in the marketplace.
From time to time we'll see challenges in the marketplace but we've proven over time that we can overcome these.
This is the nature of our dynamic business in a dynamic environment and of our exposure to emerging markets.
It's also what creates an attractive growth profile and I'm excited about the large number of opportunities we have in front of us.
Our growth and our margins give us the opportunity to invest in these growth opportunities.
And with that I'll now turn the call back to Kathy.
Thank you Kasper.
As stated in both this morning's earnings release and our prepared remarks Mead Johnson Nutrition is involved in an ongoing antitrust review by China's NDRC.
Since this is an active investigation we may not be able to answer all questions you raise.
We ask for your understanding.
Also we want to allow time to address questions about other regions of our diverse global business.
Thank you and operator please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] That question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First a comment and then a question.
I think it's completely bogus that you're limiting your call to 45 minutes when there are so many questions around China you should just be taking questions until the last dog dies.
Especially when you spend 30 minutes with your prepared comments.
That's my comment there.
The question I have is really Pete I wanted to just understand the $30 million that you indicated from the pricing action is included in your non-GAAP numbers but you haven't assessed the potential bottom-line impact? Is that...
No.
Research Division</strong> Is that an accurate read of your commentary? The impact of the price rollback is definitely included in our non-GAAP guidance.
It's included in the fact that we anticipate core constant-dollar sales growth of 8% and it's included in our $3.22 to $3.30 non-GAAP EPS.
We were just making the distinction Diane that there may be legal settlement and related costs that are not included in that.
We would specify just that piece of it and only that piece then would then also roll through into the GAAP.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when do you think you'll have a better idea about consumer behavior in that category? I appreciate your pricing -- your price action went into place about 10 days ago.
When do you feel that you'll have a better read about what's going on at the shelf and then just in terms of volume drivers? Diane thanks for the follow-up question.
I don't think that we anticipate that there would be a major shift in consumer behavior.
It's obviously an evolving situation but as we understand it right now it would appear that pricing relativities within the segment in which we compete are being broadly maintained and we obviously feel that we have provided for that in our financial outlook.
So it's not our expectation that there will be a major shift in the -- in consumer behavior as a result of these actions.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> And I second Diane's comments about the 45-minute call.
I appreciate the top line offset you're getting against the China situation but I'm still a bit curious about your gross margin guidance right which you seem to be maintaining today.
I might have expected the shift from higher margin markets like China to lower margin ones like everywhere else that that will hurt your margin a bit.
And I also might have expected what seems to be a shift from pricing to volume to hurt your margins a bit too.
So can you talk about what you're seeing that would allow you to maintain your gross margin guidance? Sure it's an excellent question Ken.
$30 million in lower sales and margins as a result of the price rollback in China would reduce our gross margin by 1/4 of 1%.
Remember we have a base of $4 billion in sales.
And keep in mind that the impact is mitigated somewhat if we see lower promotional spend in light of our list price reduction.
And I'd also point out that we're seeing higher growth in the U.S.
Canada and Hong Kong all of which carry gross margins which are well above the company average.
So net-net they tend to balance themselves out.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Kasper I'd like -- if you could comment on the longer-term plans for the China rollout of new cities and kind of whether you are still committed to that given the changes in the marketplace there as well as the reason for the lower prices demanded by the government.
I remember your predecessor Steve had talked about other products in the market that seemed to be charging significant amounts for what you viewed as not that much efficacy.
So is that one of the major reasons you see as to why the government is moving forward? So I guess there's 2 questions in there.
Let me deal with the second part of your question first.
I can only reiterate what we've said on previous calls that we have -- believe that it was unwise for anybody to launch products without significant scientific differentiation at prices that were significantly higher than any other part of the world into the Chinese market.
And we have said that we did not intend to do so unless we felt that we could provide a true scientific substantiation for those prices.
I don't want to speculate as to what has prompted the Chinese government to conduct this probe that would clearly be speculation.
And as it's an ongoing investigation it wouldn't be wise for me to enter into that space.
I do want to make the point that we've been in China for a very long time and we look forward to being there for many many many more years and we're very committed to being responsible corporate citizens in China.
We employ a lot of people there.
We've manufactured there for 20 years and it's an important part of our overall success as a company.
As a -- with that backdrop we don't see ourselves making any changes to our strategy in China that involves city expansion over time.
And indeed we are returning to growing the number of cities in which we have a full marketing presence later this year.
So all of that maybe just to wrap that all up by saying that we understand that this is sort of a period of uncertainty and there are some adjustments happening in the Chinese market but we still continue to see this as being a tremendous growth opportunity for the company and we'll continue to make investments in China.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to keep this brief given the unfortunately short conference call today.
The broad -- stepping -- staying on China stepping away from the NDRC there's a broader regulatory overhaul of the dairy industry and infant formula market underway there.
Can you elaborate on exactly how that's unfolding and what you expect the outcome to be and maybe the timeline of that? We don't have specific insights beyond what you probably have access through the media Jason.
We understand that the new administration in China has mapped out a new vision for particularly the local industry.
We understand that it involves a vision of consolidation the creation of fewer but stronger local operating companies.
And that's about as far as I think we can comment.
And there's nothing different from what you probably have read in the media.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I have to ask one more question about China.
The -- just with respect Kasper to your comments on relative price gaps among the premium brands in the market I believe some of your premium foreign competitors have announced a combination of list price reductions and a commitment to maintain their existing promotional discounts.
I mean if you are seeing some degree of flexibility in moderating promotional spend does that lead to any concern within the company about potential widening of price gaps between your brands and some of your stronger competitors? We'll continue to monitor the competitive environment very closely in China but we believe that included in the financial projections that we reflected in this earnings call we have enough flexibility to make sure that we maintain the sort of competitive pricing relativities at a level we feel comfortable with.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a follow-up to Matt's question.
So just to understand first on promotions when you're talking about promotions is it just simply a discounted price in the store? Or is it other sort of incentives that you would offer at point-of-sale? So I'm just trying to understand the nature of what the type of promotions are.
And then second just for some clarity the guidance you've provided and the estimate you provided in terms of the effect that the price cut has on your sales on an annual basis that is net of a reduction of promotions? Or that assumes that the level of promotional activity is exactly the same? And then maybe if I could just again for clarity I guess I was -- I'm a little confused in thinking that there was an expectation or the design of the negotiation between yourselves and the regulators was to sort of get a shelf price that was "acceptable".
But if there's some variation in the promotion it just seems to me then whatever the shelf price could actually move around a little bit.
So if you could help with some clarity on those topics that will be helpful.
Let me address the second question in there with regard to what's in our guidance.
We said there is that $30 million or so impact on reduced sales this year from the price rollback and it's offset by 3 factors: Stronger growth in our other markets outside of China; the fact that in light of the price rollback we anticipate there could be fewer promotions that we might offer in the marketplace; and then the third is that Hong Kong came in better than we expected.
And all of those are included in our guidance and we're not going to get more specific on what we're going to do there.
We're still in an active investigation with the government.
I think just in general maybe I can just add that promotional activity sort of by definition is short term in nature and uneven in the sense that it occurs at different times in different accounts and in different regions.
And hence you can't look at it as a simple sort of impact on an average base price.
That's not the way that the Chinese regulatory body looks at it.
It's not the way that we look at it either.
So I -- I don't think you need to be overly concerned with either eroding competitiveness or for that matter the fact that there would be no benefit seen on pricing in China.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask Hong Kong the fundamental question is who's buying the product? And then maybe a little bit more detail is it was my understanding that you had about $350 million of annual sales in Hong Kong and that the -- more than half of it maybe well more than half of it was in fact privately exported to the Mainland.
The private -- the restrictions that the Hong Kong government then put into place kind of at face value say that this can't happen.
So then I think there's a nice logical impression on my part that that would reduce sales.
I think it's pretty tremendous that you're able to say that sales actually grew year-over-year in the quarter.
And so I can I just say simply who's buying the product? [Technical Difficulty] [Operator Instructions] All right.
So Ms.
MacDonald are we going to go ahead and continue taking the questions? Yes so we're going to -- for all of those on the phone we will definitely extend this to make sure that we make up for the time.
I think is the next one -- who is next on the line? We actually had David Driscoll that was on the line.
So I guess that he needs to finish his question.
His line is now open.
Research Division</strong> So my question was on Hong Kong.
Just to -- I think you heard it but just a quick recap the question is kind of who's buying the product.
It was my understanding that the bulk of this got exported privately speaking from Hong Kong to the Mainland and I wondered if you could just give me some understanding as to how the situation is working because it's a very impressive result that sales are actually increasing year-on-year.
Yes David we believe that the bulk of our products sold in Hong Kong is still being exported or being brought across the border into Mainland China.
You will remember that this is not a ban on doing so it's simply a restriction on how much any individual person can carry at any one time.
We have said that the sales in Hong Kong were down from the very high levels we saw pre-restriction in January and February.
However what we have seen in the subsequent 3 4 months is that sales have now stabilized and appear to be relatively stable at a level that would on average through the year allow us to report growth for the full year.
Your next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst from Wellington Shields.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give us some color on the strength in Latin America beyond Mexico maybe in the Southern Cone and some other areas? Sorry Leigh I didn't catch the question on Latin America what was your specific question? LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give us some more color on the strength in Latin America beyond Mexico? Yes I mean we've talked about it in previous calls also and we remain very encouraged by the progress we are making in building an infant formula business in Brazil.
So I guess I would call that out as a highlight.
You know that we have previously referred to the establishment of the infant formula business in Brazil as a seed market.
Another highlight is tremendous strength in our Andean region and that really goes right across the countries that make up that portion of the world.
We are seeing strength in Colombia Peru Ecuador and in Venezuela at this time.
We've been in these markets for a very long time and we hold very strong market share positions in all of these markets.
And that's really benefiting us now.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are you able to grow share in those markets? In the -- I mean it varies from country to country but what we have done and what we have seen is a very strong share growth in Colombia in Ecuador and in Venezuela as of late.
I think Peru is perhaps a bit more stable but we have a very high share there already.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper if we could speak to South Asia a bit and what your expectations are there for driving the sales acceleration in the back half? And maybe what you perceive as the largest risk to your outlook there? I think we feel good about the share momentum that I referenced in the prepared remarks with share growth in Thailand Malaysia and Vietnam.
We also I guess seeing encouraging prospects in the Philippines for a stronger second half performance than we had in the first half performance of the year.
So that's sort of what underpins the assumption of associated growth in that region.
If I was to highlight any risks I guess the strengthening dollar poses an FX risk for us across many of these emerging markets.
Pete referenced the headwind that we assume from foreign exchange in the second half of the year.
But beyond that I think that region is diversified enough that we feel pretty good about the outlook.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just shifting gears to the U.S.
Are you seeing higher births in the U.S.
now? And is that a reason for your expectation for higher growth in developed markets this year? No we're not seeing higher births in the U.S.
but what we are seeing is that births appear to be in line with prior year which is a marked improvement over the last several years where we have continued to report declines in births.
We are still seeing some shrinkage in consumption on a per capita basis but we are hopeful that that will eventually turn around as well.
So I would characterize the birth trend more as a stabilization as opposed to a reversal.
Your last question comes from the line of Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Operating margins in North America/Europe used to be in the low 30s and they're now kind of in the low 20s.
And I wanted to know to what extent have volume declines in the U.S.
contributed to lower operating margin? I know there's been a lot of other factors at play.
And I found it actually a little curious Kasper that you said that you're actually increasing the advertising or marketing investment in the U.S.
right now.
What is your strategy there for the U.S.
given that you probably have a 3% headwind from increased incidence of breast-feeding on an ongoing basis? Rob this is Pete.
First with regard to your margin question from the time when we saw those 30% EBIT margins immediately prior to our IPO today we've seen a decline in volumes in this industry that's quite significant and deleverage in our manufacturing plant definitely has had an impact on our gross margin.
You've seen us talk about price increases the last couple of years but the whole industry I think has been more hesitant to take pricing over the maybe a 5-year period here in general because of the births situation.
And the other thing I would point out is that we have made a decision consciously to continue to invest in this business for when the recovery comes.
And I'll turn it over to Kasper to talk about that.
Pete I think you've captured it well.
I think Rob just really to repeat what I said in the prepared remarks we think that the North American market is still enormously important to us and on a longer time horizon offers a growth opportunity as well.
Therefore we have made a very serious commitment to maintaining our strong competitive position in that market.
And we are proving that we are willing to invest in order to do so.
Operator we're now ready to end the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude Mead Johnson Nutrition's Second Quarter Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition third quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Grant and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Grant and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's third quarter conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind at our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Thank you for joining us on this morning's call.
Before I turn the call over to Pete who will provide some additional perspectives on our financial results and expectations for the remainder of the year let me outline our operating performance in the third quarter.
And after Pete's comments I'll then wrap up with some brief summary comments before we take questions.
In totality we are very pleased with our third quarter results.
As you likely read in this morning's press release sales growth was 16% on a constant-dollar basis and non-GAAP earnings grew at an even faster rate of 28% to $0.91 per share up from $0.71 in the third quarter of 2012.
A couple of noteworthy unusual items however need to be kept in mind when assessing our performance this quarter.
Firstly as we reduced our distributor inventory in China in the third quarter of 2012 this positively impacted our revenue growth this quarter by 4 points.
Secondly pricing gains realized in Venezuela and Argentina merely offset currency depreciation and high inflation and contributed a further 1.5 to 2 points to our reported constant-dollar sales growth.
Strong sales growth in every region along with higher gross margins allowed us to continue to invest at near record levels in demand generation.
Pete will cover gross margin in more detail shortly.
He will describe how higher manufacturing volumes and associated efficiencies combined with improved pricing and productivity to strengthen our margin.
The significant rise we've seen in dairy prices earlier this year will begin to impact our gross margin in the next quarter.
Hence the 65% gross margin seen in the third quarter will not be sustained and we expect margins to return to historical levels over the coming months.
Advertising and promotional spending stood at levels near 16% of sales again this quarter which brings the year-to-date investments to over 15% of revenue a full percentage point above last year's average and we are making significant investments in both our operating segments.
With that let me now turn to the performance of our 2 segments and firstly to the Asia/Latin America segment.
This segment delivered constant-dollar sales growth of 21% in the quarter.
Higher pricing accounted for 4% of sales growth volumes were up 17% with our business in China/Hong Kong as the most significant contributor.
We are very satisfied with our third quarter results and they were supported by continued market share gains across most of our emerging markets.
As referenced earlier there were 2 other unusual factors positively impacting growth this quarter.
Let me repeat and expand a little on these.
Firstly in the second half 2012 we corrected inventory levels in China to match a fall in market share that time.
This base year effect boosted our segment growth in this quarter by 5 percentage points and the quarter was further helped by competitor recalls in China which positively impacted our market share in the latter part of the quarter.
Secondly price increases reflective of the high inflation environment in Venezuela and Argentina contributed 2 points to the segment in the quarter.
As mentioned these price increases merely offset the effect of rapidly depreciating currencies.
Please note we don't see this impact on our sales growth when reporting in U.S.
dollars as these prices -- as these price increases are offset by the depreciation of the bolívar and the peso respectively.
There's been a lot of news out of China/Hong Kong in recent months and I'd like to offer a few additional perspectives.
Starting with Hong Kong.
Despite the solid -- the export restrictions put in place in March we continued to see solid volume growth versus prior year.
We expect export restrictions to remain in place for now with a review possible sometime after Chinese New Year 2014.
In the Mainland China market the new government is actively focusing on improving food safety.
A number of changes in regulatory requirements are being contemplated.
Our products meet all standards issued to-date and we'll continue to assess any changes necessitated by new regulations.
Though changes to regulations may bring short-term challenges we believe this is a net positive for the industry and will ultimately benefit the stronger science and qualitative -- quality-oriented participants.
I'm sure you in recent months have seen a number of new stories regarding medical marketing practices in China.
I do not want to comment on specific competitor's approaches to this area though I will be happy to take questions on the broader industry environment.
In our 10-Q filed earlier today we note we have ourselves initiated an internal investigation to determine in particular expenditures that were made in connection with the promotion of the company's products by ours Chinese subsidiary or other payments that may have been made may not fully have complied with our policies or applicable U.S.
and local laws.
We're undertaking this exercise voluntarily and in support of an SEC request for certain documents in line with best practice.
And to ensure impartiality we've asked external counsel to lead this investigation and we've established a subcommittee of our Board to oversee the exercise.
There are no findings or conclusions at this time.
And as the review is ongoing you'll understand that we are unable to provide further details.
We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards within the company and to this end are continuously seeking to improve operating standards across the world.
This includes China where we are supportive of government efforts to ensure ethical conduct across all industries.
To wrap up my comments on China I'd like to say we remained bullish about our long-term growth prospects in this important market.
GDP growth remains strong exceeding 7.5% according to the latest reports.
The middle class continues to grow rapidly with women entering the workforce in record numbers.
These factors remain the key growth drivers for our industry as well as for Mead Johnson.
To highlight the strengths and diversity of our business let me now spend a moment on other markets in the Asia/Latin America segment.
These other markets account for 40% of our total sales approximately.
South Asia delivered low double-digit sales growth in the third quarter on strong volume gains.
We have particularly strong performance in Thailand and Malaysia Singapore where we posted market share gains.
In Latin America we again delivered strong double-digit growth that was broad-based.
Growth in South America was particularly strong led by continued progress in Brazil where we are rapidly building our infant formula share.
Further our new business in Argentina also continues to achieve the plan that underpinned our decision to acquire it.
And market shares across the Indian region remain strong and in most cases growing as these markets are all experiencing category expansion.
And we will continue to post significant growth in revenue here.
Our strong performance in the third quarter has led us to raise our revenue expectation for the segment.
Constant-dollar sales through the end of September are up by 12%.
And we expect to end 2013 with growth at or slightly above that level.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe operating segments.
Constant-dollar sales grew by 2% in the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of businesses we discontinued in 2012 the North America/Europe segment grew by 6% compared to prior year.
Pricing was up 2% and volume increased 4%.
Volume growth was largely driven by continued share gains.
Category consumption continued to decline as breastfeeding rates again grew in an environment of stubbornly high unemployments.
Strong gross margins have allowed us to reinvest in advertising and promotion.
We plan to showcase some of these investment areas at our upcoming Investor Day in early November.
In the latest quarter we made further progress in the U.S.
with both our ready-to-drink liquids offerings and our Enfagro product for toddlers.
Year-to-date segment EBIT margin was up by 360 basis points to 21.8% driven by higher gross margins from pricing productivity and manufacturing efficiencies.
The improvement in European profitability was particularly noteworthy.
This follows significant restructuring done over the past 12 months.
We still expect constant-dollar sales for North America and Europe to be down slightly for the full year.
However excluding discontinued businesses we expect our continuing core business to grow in the low-single digits.
This is consistent with our prior outlook.
In summary and commenting now on our global performance I'm very pleased with the results we announced this morning even with growth boosted 4 points by the previously referenced 2012 China inventory correction our underlying sales performance was still strong.
We currently expect reported revenue growth in the 7% to 8% range for the full year 2013.
Excluding the businesses that we exited last year core growth will be in the 9% to 10% range on a constant-dollar basis.
This is 100 to 200 basis points higher than our previous guidance and slightly ahead of our year-to-date growth rate.
As a result of stronger than expected revenue growth we are raising non-GAAP EPS guidance for the full year to between $3.30 to $3.37.
This is up from our previously indicated range of $3.22 to $3.30.
Excluding the $0.07 in one-time tax benefits we had in 2012 this would represent EPS growth of 10% to 12% over prior year.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial analysis.
And I'll then return with some closing remarks before we field your questions.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
I'll provide a bit more color on our third quarter results as well as our expectations as we close out the remainder of the year.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials unless I note otherwise.
I'll wrap up with a few observations on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Reported sales grew by 14% with 16% growth on a constant-dollar basis as Kasper detailed reduced by a 2% decline from foreign exchange.
The U.S.
dollar strengthened against many of the currencies in South Asia and in Latin America most notably the Venezuelan bolivar the Argentine peso the Brazilian real and the Philippine peso.
We expect a similar trend in the fourth quarter leading to a full year sales reduction of 1% from currency versus 2012.
There are 2 additional points on foreign exchange that I'd like to note.
First the dollar weakened against the euro in the third quarter a trend opposite of that seen with most other currencies.
You will recall that we have a greater cost exposure to the euro given our plant in The Netherlands that supplies Hong Kong and China and our low revenue base in Europe.
A weaker dollar relative to the euro therefore leads to higher product cost.
The impact is first seen in the carrying value of inventories on our balance sheet and will only start to be reflected in earnings during the fourth quarter.
Relative to our expectations 3 months ago currency trends reduced our full year earnings guidance by a couple of pennies.
The second point is the potential for a further significant devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
We have seen very strong volume gains in this market along with the higher price increases that Kasper mentioned in his earlier remarks in response to high inflation.
As a result our exposure to a further devaluation has grown as we have moved through 2013.
Given the timing of local elections we don't expect this during the fourth quarter and the future bolivar devaluation is not included in our 2013 guidance.
However we believe that the devaluation risk remains and that an EPS impact in the mid-single cent range is likely to occur in the next 6 months.
I'll provide some additional color on foreign exchange impacts at our November 7 Investor Day Conference.
The gross margin strengthened 150 basis points to 65.1% in the third quarter from 63.6% in the second quarter.
Stronger volume leverage was a key driver along with higher pricing and manufacturing efficiencies.
We now anticipate that the gross margin for the full year will be slightly above 63%.
Since our year-to-date gross margin stands at 63.7% that means that margins will be noticeably lower in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
The drop is the result of increased spot dairy prices from earlier in the year that will start to be reflected in our cost of goods sold in the fourth quarter.
In addition lower manufacturing volumes will also contribute to the sequential quarter decline.
This is due to the normal quarter-to-quarter variability in production rates as we move through any given year.
We also expect to see a higher level of startup cost in the fourth quarter from our new plant in Singapore as we bring more employees on board and start equipment testing.
The project is on schedule with production expected to begin in the second half of next year.
Let me note that our full year guidance for gross margins slightly above 63% is up about 50 basis points from our previous estimate of about 62.5%.
Total operating expenses came in at 39.7% of sales in the third quarter down 80 basis points versus the prior-year quarter.
This largely reflected leverage of our sales growth and lower balance sheet remeasurement losses from foreign exchange.
Advertising and promotion expenses stood at 15.6% of sales in the third quarter up 50 basis points from 2012 and similar to our record spending in the second quarter.
Total operating expenses for the full year should approach 40% of sales up from 38.7% in 2002.
A&amp;P should run near the year-to-date rate of 15.2% up a full percentage point from 2012 and a slight increase from the guidance in our last call.
Higher pension settlement costs and bonus accruals are also increasing full year operating expenses as measured on a percent of sales basis.
Please note that we expect pension settlement expenses to increase in the fourth quarter by about $0.03 a share versus the third quarter resulting from lump sum payouts for known retirements.
Finally EBIT margins for the full year are expected to be about 23% similar to the prior year percentage as we have increased demand-generation investments in light of higher gross margins.
Turning to taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR for the third quarter of 2013 is 26.3% up from 17.4% in the prior-year quarter.
You may recall we had a $0.06 per share benefit in the third quarter of 2012 associated with prior year's tax adjustments.
In the third quarter of 2013 we had an unfavorable impact from prior year's tax adjustments of $0.01 per share.
These are the most significant factors at work.
On a full year basis we now expect our ETR to come in around 25% similar to the 25.4% year-to-date rates and the high end of our previous range.
That continued progress from the 26% seen in 2012 absent the favorable prior year adjustments last year.
Before I turn to our balance sheet and cash flow let me make a couple of points on our latest guidance.
I'd like to address 2 points: First the key factors affecting our full year EPS estimates compared to expectations 3 months ago; and second the most significant reason fourth quarter earnings should be lower than the third quarter.
As Kasper mentioned we now expect that full year sales growth should range from 7% to 8% on a reported basis.
Constant-dollar sales for the full year are estimated to grow between 9% to 10% for our core operations excluding non-core businesses exited last year up from 8% as estimated last quarter.
The increase is coming from our Asia/Latin America segment which accounts for almost 3/4 of our consolidated sales.
We also expect a higher annual gross margin than our earlier guidance which contributes even further to EPS gains.
Partially offsetting these increases are higher demand-generation investments unfavorable currency impacts and a slightly higher effective tax rate.
The net result is that we've increased our non-GAAP guidance for the full year to $3.30 to $3.37 per share from $3.22 to $3.30 per share in our last earnings call.
And please remember that our numbers do not anticipate any meaningful devaluation of the Venezuela bolivar during the remainder of the year.
Our guidance anticipates fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS to range from $0.70 to $0.77 per share down from $0.91 this past quarter.
The sequential quarterly decline in EPS is largely attributed to the reduction in gross margins along with higher pension settlement expenses as I mentioned earlier.
With regard to full year GAAP earnings we expect EPS to be in the range of $3.12 to $3.19 per share.
Specified costs of about $0.18 per share for the full year include $0.15 for the NDRC administrative penalty in China of which $0.04 was recognized in the second quarter and $0.11 in the third quarter.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and liquidity year-to-date free cash flow measured after capital spending was $450 million in 2013 up 17% from the prior year.
That's exceptional performance given the $33 million administrative penalty in China and $92 million in higher cash spending for capital projects most notably our Singapore spray dryer.
Controllable working capital which we defined as receivables and inventories net of accounts payable has averaged a little less than 7.5% in the first 3 quarters of 2013 down from 10.2% in 2012.
We remain on track to deliver the best working capital performance in MJN's history.
For the full year we continue to project CapEx at $260 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $85 million in 2013.
During the third quarter total debt dropped by $55 million as we paid off all remaining borrowings under our short-term revolver and also retired the final portion of the seller financing for the 2012 acquisition in Argentina.
We repurchased 450 000 shares of stock during the quarter and exhausted almost all of the remaining $300 million authorization initially approved by our Board in early 2010.
In response the Board approved an additional 500 million share repurchase program in September.
We intend to use this authorization to offset dilution from equity awards to employees in the coming years.
In addition we will use this for broader opportunistic buybacks to return cash to shareholders.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
Let me close our prepared remarks by expressing my gratitude to all our employees who've helped deliver strong third quarter results.
As some if not all of you will remember a number of -- you will have an opportunity to meet a number of our key executives during our November 7 Investor Day.
For that reason I thought I'd let you know that following several years of strong growth in Latin America we have promoted Chris Stratton who led that region since early 2010 to the new position of President for Asia-Pacific.
In this capacity Chris will be responsible for North and South Asia with the respective sub-regional leaders reporting into him.
Chris has extensive prior experience in both Asia and emerging markets in general and he's been a great addition to our team since joining us in 2010.
Chris will be presenting at our Investor Day.
Let me also acknowledge that we're operating in rapidly changing environments around the world.
Nowhere is it is more true than in China but over time we've repeatedly proven we can adapt learn improve and continue to grow.
I'm confident this will remain true.
The third quarter saw us deliver on our growth ambitions while simultaneously reporting strong profitability.
But I'm perhaps most satisfied with our continued commitment to invest at higher levels in demand creation and future growth.
With that we'll be pleased to take your questions.
And Grant who is our operator can I please ask you to open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ken Goldman.
Research Division</strong> So typically in an inflationary period you would take pricing in China as I imagine you will elsewhere around the world but that might be a bit trickier this time around.
So given the situation over there I guess I'm curious to what extent do you expect you will raise prices in China? And I'm talking total pricing list plus promotions to offset your higher costs.
And really can you even do it at all? And if you can what level do you think you'll get there? This is Kasper thanks for the question.
I don't think we want to make specific comments on absolute intentions regarding pricing in China or anywhere else for that matter but let me talk a little bit generally about it.
Our pricing strategy always is a result of us evaluating both our competitiveness and the cost pressures that the business is under.
And I think we'll continue to assess both of these things in the China environment.
Now you're familiar with some of the announcements that had been made by some of our competitors regarding the intentions on pricing going forward at least over the next 6 to 9 months or so.
I think it's important to bear that in mind but at the same time remember that there are several products and brands that currently are selling in China at higher prices than we are realizing.
Research Division</strong> Let me be -- that's helpful.
Let me be a little direct and just one follow-up then.
Is there anything structural that the government is doing to prevent you? Or do you -- that you think the government will do to prevent you from raising prices if you normally would need to? No it's not our impression that the government is contemplating price controls as such.
I think the government is obviously concerned about people behaving reasonably with regards to pricing and they're putting this in a global context.
We have spoken previously on these calls about the fact that our prices in China are not dissimilar from what they are in comparable other countries.
So we don't think as such that there's anything on a longer-term basis that is structurally changed in China.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger.
Research Division</strong> I know there's not a great deal to be said right now about the SEC request for documents but can you just confirm whether you've received Well's [ph] notice or not? And then Pete more broadly you talked about the buyback and the fact that there's at least some view toward opportunistic share repurchases.
Should we view that as a shift toward more active use of the balance sheet for buybacks? And does the internal investigation limit your ability to buy back stock near term? Pete maybe I'll let you talk about the buybacks question.
And then I'll take the China question.
Matthew I think with regard to being able to do opportunistic buybacks I think we do intend to try to take advantage of the volatility that occurs in our stock just as our shareholders would.
And so it is probably a slight change.
I mean if you actually look at our share base from when we put the first authorization in place to when we ended it we actually did see a decline in outstanding shares so we were buying back more than what was needed just for dilution coming from employee stock award.
So it's not a total change I'd say but it gives us more flexibility to do that moving forward.
Matthew let me just complete the answer by commenting on the interaction with the SEC and just to say that this is an entirely voluntary interaction and the exchange of information that is happening with the SEC or will happen with the SEC is completely voluntary as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow up to Ken Goldman's question just regarding pricing and not even specifically to China but just -- as we start to think -- as we look at gross margins going out beyond this year -- I think in the past you've tried to manage input cost inflation through a combination of productivity and price increases.
And so I guess as we're looking at just for the total company next year is there anything that would preclude you from being able to -- or for us to expect that you would be able to manage that inflation through the combination of productivity and pricing? And maybe just as a follow-up -- as a second to that just in terms of just generally thinking about pricing going forward how much would also be dependent upon a -- like a meaningful change in product formulations or new products to really sort of tie in a higher price? Sure.
First with regard to pricing I would still say just like productivity we consider that an important tool for trying to manage our gross margins over time.
I think we have known for a while here that dairy costs were going up and we've tried in some markets to get ahead of that with some success.
That's actually one of the reasons gross margins were a little bit higher in the third quarter this year.
So there are going to be markets like China as Kasper addressed where you also have to consider market conditions.
But in general I'd say it's still part of our -- it's still an arrow in our quiver for going after it maintaining high gross margins.
Was there another part to your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just second -- there's been a lot of focus about pricing in your ability to raise prices going forward and just -- like one thing that's maybe even absent in the analysis or the debate about it is just the impact that new products play and I guess you'll talk more about new products at the Investor Day but just -- can you -- is that still I guess another arrow in your quiver in terms of -- to the extent you can tie pricing to especially -- meaningful changes and product claims? Is that still something that you see as a variable or a factor going forward? This is Kasper.
Let me talk a little bit about pricing in a more general sense.
I think Pete did a good job of sort of addressing this specifics.
You're absolutely right to point out that pricing is a consequence of the value equation you can deliver to consumers and that is heavily influenced by your innovation program.
And we will discuss that more at our Investor Day next month.
In general I'll also say on pricing that we have been able to raise prices in years past but we've been able to do so because in general we have raised prices at a lower level than wages have gone up in the markets we compete in.
So if you look at affordability of our products you could make a very strong argument that that has actually improved.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question has to do with the promotional adjustment that you had talked about in China as a possible offset to the price cuts.
And how -- you kind of indicated you weren't exactly sure how that would go.
Can you give any commentary on that situation? I think in the third quarter Eric we recognized a net price decline in China which was consistent with the announcement made in mid-July and therefore in line with our expectations.
We also expect lower prices in the coming quarter and expectations have clearly not changed since our earnings call.
That said as we realize lower list prices as you correctly highlight this gives us opportunities selectively to address our promotional spend which is always a function of competitiveness anyway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry -- and then I guess with the regulatory changes do you see any need to adjust your previous plans to expand into the number of cities that you had mentioned before in China? In short no.
I don't think the regulatory changes per se impacts our plan.
We're going to talk a little bit more about our plan for growth in China specifically during our Investor Day.
So I hope we'll see you at that but no I don't think the regulatory changes will impact that.
The regulatory changes first of all it's important to recognize they are not final yet but there's a lot of conversation going on about changes the government is contemplating.
And we are in many cases participating in those discussions.
It's quite likely that that might lead to some -- needs to adjust but we've proven that we can adjust before.
And as I said in the prepared remarks I think ultimately this will be to the net benefit of the stronger players in the industry that have global experience and best practices that they can transfer into China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last thing.
On a follow-up on the SEC in your investigation can you just kind of walk through the timeline a little bit more on this? So obviously one of your competitors has been flagged you decided to do a voluntary review give the Board non-insiders the lead on this and then you contacted the SEC and said hey we're doing this and we'll keep you apprised of it is that how this whole kind of laid out? Well let me firstly say that the investigation is in an early stage and therefore it's not appropriate to talk much about it.
And we can't really speak for the SEC and what -- as to what is prompting their interest.
But I want to reiterate the fact that the investigation that we have initiated is entirely voluntary and as is the exchange of information that we've had with the SEC.
We can't really sort of talk much about it except to say that we have ongoing discussions with the SEC about the whole range of issues.
That's part of normal business and this is one of the topics that have come up in our interaction with the SEC and we are committed to doing a solid job of supplying them with whatever information they want.
I would just add to -- you made a statement that we talked to the SEC after our investigation.
Well if you're read our disclosure the SEC requested documents from us.
So just to make sure you understand that point.
Research Division</strong> So is it -- again I'm sorry to take up time here but it's -- so it's a separate kind of track? You decided to look into in more detail some of the practices in your business in China and then kind of aside from that the SEC has requested from you some documents to review and they may or may not be related? Well they are separate but obviously related tracks.
We can't quite speculate as I said earlier about what's prompting the SEC interest.
We don't -- obviously we don't have full and complete knowledge about that.
But we -- it's obvious with the many changes in the publicity that has taken -- that has sort of surfaced in China over the last few months that it would be appropriate for any company that operates in China to look at this matter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the share improvement in China that you achieved based on the competitor re-top [ph] calls in the quarter and the sustainability of that? How long do you think you will benefit from that going forward? Well it's a little bit hard to separate out exactly the order of magnitude from what is caused by specifically by the competitive recall actions vis-à-vis what progress we are making in China due to sort of the momentum that we had previously established as we recovered from the significant share loss we saw in the middle of 2012.
So you will forgive me for not trying to split it up but what we can see is that it looks very much to us as if we are picking up our fair share of the losses suffered by some of our competitors as a result of this unfortunate event.
Research Division</strong> And do that work in a similar fashion to what we've seen with health concerns or recalls in the U.S.
where there would be of certain amount of sustainability to that given the nature of the category in infants entering and aging out of the category? Yes you'd expect that to be the same.
So you'd expect that there would be some benefit that would endure.
And then over time that would diminish and things would normalize around the trends that were in existence prior to this.
Your next question comes from Amit Sharma.
Apart from the pricing discussion that you had in China there are other changes in how you approach the market or the consumer.
Can you talk about -- if your demand generation activities or the model that you followed in China is there going to be any change or what changes will there be in that model as you go forward given the evolving environment in China? Amit that's an excellent question.
And as you can imagine we are very focused on it.
I think it's way too early to speculate on that.
I think the environment is going through a lot of change at the moment and I don't think that we can sort of ascertain what the end state will be.
What we are very mindful of is that in the recent months or 2 the Ministry of Health in China has issued some guidelines for the interaction that they see as being justifiable with healthcare professionals.
Obviously we are very mindful of that.
And we are ensuring that we are acting entirely consistent with that.
That said we are hoping that these guidelines will become even clearer in the coming months and then we'll assess what that means for our business we'll adjust to it.
And I feel very confident that we have the capabilities to make any changes or adjustments to our model while remaining competitive in China.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a quick follow-up on your online channel in China if you can provide us any detail in terms of how that's ramping up either in terms of percent of sales in China or in any other metric that will help us understand.
It's still relatively early days.
We look -- we really sort of launched it I guess in August and began selling our fully imported solutions brand via the channel in that months.
It's early but we are growing strongly and I don't think beyond that that we will say other than it's currently small.
And we don't intend going forward to sort of discuss individual channel sales in China.
Your next question comes from David Driscoll.
Research Division</strong> So 3 detailed questions just quick ones though.
And then just one bigger picture.
Pete can you talk about the fourth quarter revenue growth expectation.
And then 2 other quick ones.
The Hong Kong -- just given all these -- the Hong Kong restrictions can you just talk about your sales growth in Hong Kong in the third quarter.
And then finally and forgive me if you said it but what was your estimated market share gain in China in the third quarter? So those 3 points and then I have a bigger picture question.
Sure we're not going to give you specific guidance.
But in terms of the revenue in the fourth quarter I would say talking off of constant-dollar core sales we gave guidance of 9% to 10%.
On the year-to-date basis we're at about 9% so that would assume higher growth than what you've seen on average year-to-date.
I don't want us to comment on the specific level.
With regard to Hong Kong sales growth in the third quarter it was meaningful versus last year's sales.
And sales continue to grow last year quarter-by-quarter.
So the standard gets tougher but we're quite pleased with what we're seeing there.
David maybe I can comment.
As you know we don't give specific numbers on our progress in China market share but what I can say is that we did make material progress I guess over the second quarter.
And we are now really back to the levels that we saw prior to -- fully back to the levels we saw prior to the significant loss of share in the middle of 2012.
So we feel very good about that.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate those comments.
My final question is just kind of bigger picture here.
And Kasper I think in something like 2006 you were the GM overall Asia.
And I believe you had direct responsibilities for the China operation.
So in my mind you're as an expert as anyone alive on Mead Johnson's practices within China.
On my view your stock is down right now because this thing just feels so ominous when it's written in the press release about hiring outside counsel and so on and so forth.
From all years that you directly ran it and then as Chief Operating Officer and now CEO I mean do you feel that that business is being run in the correct fashion? Can you give us any sense here as to how severe an issue this is? Or is it -- you're covering your bases by performing an outside investigation just to make sure that there's no doubts about it? But -- just any kind of commentary on this right now given your very long perspective and history on it would be valued.
It's obviously an important question and one we take very seriously.
I've -- I want to be very clear that we have a very complete set of company policies that fully comply with both international regulations that we are following and local laws and we feel very good about that.
And now it is a big company in a diverse geography and what we want to make sure is that we have -- we've not had any single occur in the business that will be inconsistent with those company policies.
Now why we initiated this investigation? Well we've initiated it because we want to be completely thorough about that.
And we take it seriously.
We take the interaction we are having with the SEC seriously.
But more importantly perhaps we take our own guidelines and policies seriously.
So that's probably as much as I can say about it.
Research Division</strong> Just final question.
Is there any time that you can share? Sorry David.
To be respectful to others in the queue Grant I'd like to move on to the next call.
The next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper wondering if you can comment on what you're seeing in terms of formula volume growth at the category level in China.
And then within that I guess we're seeing some pretty strong superpremium price to your growth can you just walk through how Mead may be thinking about participating in the single premium category made for the future innovation? Is that within your plan at all? Yes just -- let me just return to the question that -- because I don't want to appear to be dodging David's question on timeline.
So David I'll answer it anyway.
The -- we don't have a timeline here.
What we are committed to is doing a thorough job of it and when we feel there's something that merit disclosure we'll let you guys know in a timely manner.
On the question of formula growth in China well obviously it's likely that pricing growth will be constrained at least for a number of months.
Having said that as pricing growth is constrained one would expect that there might be positive impact on volumes and the rate at which people are trading up to the premium category so we expect that there'll be an offset on that.
Finally the question you raised about superpremium.
There are several products on the market in China that appears to be successful and growing at higher price points that we are currently attracting.
We've spoken to this point before and our view has not really changed on it.
We will only decide to participate in that segment if we feel we can bring real science to the segment through better product than our current products.
And it's likely that if we were able to decide to do so we -- I'm sure you would understand that we wouldn't pre-announce it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English.
Research Division</strong> You talked a few times about the regulatory overhaul within China and your conversations with the government in clearly what is still a lot of uncertainty.
Despite the uncertainty can you comment right now on whether or not you believe you'll be able to continue with your practice of importing base powder to be mixed and blended and repacked in China? Or whether or not you're anticipating a need to modify that? Yes Jason let me comment a little bit on it.
I think it's way too early to begin discussing hypotheticals because the regulations are still being finalized.
So we feel that we have the ability and the expertise to adapt to whatever guidelines are put in place.
We have experienced enough that we could operate in several different manners.
That said we have a view that it makes sense for regulations to be focused on quality of the end product as opposed to individual components or subparts of the process or manufacturing.
And we're engaged in that discussion with the Chinese government and we hope that they'll see it the same way.
Research Division</strong> Let's shift gears and talk about north of..
Go ahead Jason.
I just want to be respectful there's still quite a few people in the queue and we're running out of time.
Research Division</strong> I hear you.
I'll make this quick and move on.
North America underlying volume growth really solid can you just parse it out give us some details where it's coming from and particularly are you improvement in underlying infant formula demand on the back of improved birthrates? You're right to highlight that birth in North America for the first time are - is either flat or slightly growing.
And we are expecting new results fairly quickly.
So you would expect that that had a have positive impact.
However it's equally important to note that we are still seeing a rise in breast-feeding rates.
So there's somewhat of an offset there.
How that will play out through the next 12 18 months? I think depends very substantially on the trend in unemployment.
So we'll continue to monitor but certainly the environment in North America as we see it today is better than it was 12 18 24 months ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow.
Research Division</strong> I think this question has been asked in different ways but now that you've raised your gross margin guidance for this year and it seems like you've gotten a little more pricing than you expected as you look to next year do you think that you have the tools at your disposal to be in your 62% to 63% range? I think that's kind of the normal range that's been held out there before.
This an issue I think that people are worried about for your stock.
Sure.
I would say we'll talk a little bit more about it in our Investor Day in 2 weeks but we do have the headwind of higher dairy costs affecting us in the fourth quarter.
We think that's going to continue to be a headwind as we move to the first half of the year.
Beyond that it's -- the visibility is a bit hard.
To be quite honest it will depend on where dairy goes as well as we finalize any pricing plans and productivity plans we have for next week.
But stay tuned we'll give you some more information as we get it.
Operator I think we have time for 2 more calls.
Your next question is coming from the line of Diane and Geissler.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you -- Pete I think you made some comments about Asia/LatAm sort of ex China/Hong Kong that South Asia was low double-digits and I got the feeling that the Latin American piece was growing at a more rapid rate than that area of South Asia.
One could you confirm that that was a correct interpretation? And then just -- to your goals that you set out at your Analyst Day 2 years ago I think you've talked about Latin America being a billion dollar business.
I think your target date was 2015.
Can you talk about where you are in terms of that goal please? Sure.
I think your understanding of the growth rate in the quarter for both South Asia and for Latin America your understanding is correct.
And we remain on track for the $1 billion in sales in 2015 for Latin America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a way that you think you might be able to reach that a little bit earlier with the growth rates that you're seeing in Brazil and Argentina? Or no? We're not going to comment on that.
Just to understand to there's a lot of moving pieces here including foreign exchange.
And that's also going to affect reported sales but you can listen to the Latin American presentation coming up in 2 weeks.
Your next question comes from Leigh Ferst.
LLC Research Division</strong> I also had a question about Latin America.
If you could give us a little more understanding of what's going on in Brazil what's driving the growth there in terms of products geography consumer sentiment et cetera because obviously there's issues with other consumer segments in Brazil.
Yes Leigh I mean -- I think you're asking the question against the backdrop of sort of an overall softening of the Brazilian economy I suspect and perhaps some of the things that have been said by other consumer product companies.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes and just a better understanding of where your growth is coming.
Yes.
We've not expanded geographically beyond the 3 areas that we've been focused on so far: Rio de Janeiro São Paulo and Belo Horizonte.
That covers about my estimation something like 2/3 of the Brazilian market and it's an area that we believe that we can reach in an efficient manner.
What's really driving our growth is market share gains.
So you'll recall that we are -- we've done a lot of work over the last 3 4 years to establish an infant formula business there.
And we are still growing off a relatively small base but we are making great progress.
And so I think because of our size relatively we are perhaps less exposed to the sort of the overall changes in the economic environment in Brazil than others are.
LLC Research Division</strong> It sounds like you still have some run way.
We feel we do.
Great.
Operator that concludes our question-and-answer section.
Thank you then ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter 2013 and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Derek and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in the morning's earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Thank you for joining us on this morning's call.
Before I turn to our full year results allow me to make a few brief comments on our fourth quarter.
On a global basis we delivered constant dollar revenue growth of 11% in the fourth quarter of 2013 driven by continued strong performance across our emerging markets segments.
Revenue grew particularly strongly across South America.
China Hong Kong Thailand and Vietnam were the main contributors to strong Asian performance in the quarter.
And as anticipated in our last call due to rising dairy costs gross margin declined by 210 basis points from the previous quarter to 63%.
We'll return to the topic of gross margin headwinds when we discuss the outlook for 2014.
Despite the fall in gross margin we continued to invest in new product launches and other growth initiatives as evidenced by our advertising and promotion expenditure for the quarter running at an all-time high of 16% of sales.
Earnings per share for the quarter grew 8% versus the same period of 2012 to $0.78.
Turning now to our full year results.
I'm very pleased to report that constant dollar sales growth was 9% for the year and at the top end of our guidance range.
Non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.38 for the full year exceeded expectations.
Revenue for the full year was $4.2 billion.
I note that the last 3 years have seen us add more than $1 billion to our revenue base.
More than 70% of our sales are now being generated in Asia and Latin America.
And in aggregate revenue in these emerging markets continue to grow double digits.
Rapid growth within the high-inflation environments of Argentina and Venezuela contributed 150 basis points to the company's constant dollar growth for the full year.
Gross margin improved by 160 basis points to 63.5% of sales as we realized stronger pricing and benefited from productivity gains within our supply chain.
Strong margins allowed us to increase our investment in advertising and promotion by 120 basis points within the year and still delivered a 10% increase in earnings per share.
Before I comment on the outlook for 2014 let me briefly comment on the performance within each of our reporting segments.
I should mention that beginning with the last quarter of 2013 we've decided to report Asia and Latin America separately to provide you with even greater visibility to our performance.
Now firstly Asia.
In the fourth quarter our business in Asia grew 20% on a constant dollar basis.
Our quarterly comparison was enhanced by 8 points from a reduction of China distributor inventories in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year the Asia segment delivered annual constant dollar sales growth of 10%.
Revenue in China/Hong Kong grew by 11% and reached $1.3 billion for the full year.
We're particularly pleased with this performance as it was mostly the result of volume gains from increases in market share.
These came as we manage through multiple challenges in a rapidly changing environment.
I believe this is testimony to the resilience of our China business and the strength of our capabilities there.
Sales growth in Hong Kong was particularly healthy despite the export restrictions put in place in the first quarter of 2013.
We believe traffic across the China/Hong Kong border has increased and a significant amount of product continues to flow through the Mainland.
Our growth in Thailand and Vietnam was also noteworthy.
Despite political turmoil and unrest in parts of Thailand our team continued to execute well and grew market share through the year.
We overcame a supply disruption to our ready-to-drink products and are rapidly rebuilding our market share in that segment.
Likewise strong execution underpinned our progress in Vietnam.
The year however wasn't without challenges and we remain focused on strengthening our performance in both the Philippines and Indonesia where our performance did not meet our expectations.
We're working hard to improve our execution in both markets.
Turning now to Latin America.
Fourth quarter growth in Latin America was 16% on a constant dollar basis.
Constant dollar sales for the full year 2013 grew by 22%.
As mentioned pricing gains realized in the high-inflation environments of Venezuela and Argentina contribute to the full 8 percentage points to the segment's constant dollar growth rate.
Notwithstanding this unique Latin -- dynamic Latin America was our fastest-growing region in 2013.
We've reported sales growth in U.S.
dollars at 14%.
Growth was driven by strong share gains across nearly all markets in the region.
Regional performance highlights include our doubling of sales of Enfamil in Brazil in 2013.
We continued to gain share in infant formula and introduced Enfagrow into the market late in the year.
We also launched a ready-to-drink version of our Sustagen brand in Brazil.
Our acquired business in Argentina continues to meet its targets despite the economic challenges there and we are making solid progress towards building a premium segment presence.
In Mexico we faced a challenging environment.
Overall consumer demand was weak through much of the year and particularly in the fourth quarter.
The relatively weaker market conditions offset our share gains in infant formula.
Finally we continued to see very strong performance in Peru where we maintained a market-leading position.
Lastly let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
Constant dollar sales were down by 5% in the fourth quarter.
Excluding businesses exited after the fourth quarter of 2012 revenue declined by 3% over the prior year period.
Retail inventory shifts and the timing of promotional programs in both the most recent quarter and the fourth quarter of 2012 make this comparison somewhat misleading.
On a sequential basis revenue in the segment grew by $22 million in the -- from the third quarter or by 8%.
We remain optimistic based on the progress we are making both North America and Europe.
Though we report full year constant dollar revenue for the segment lower by 2% I'd like to note that excluding the impact of businesses we discontinued in 2012 the segment grew over prior year.
Pricing for the year was up and offset volume declines driven by shrinking category consumption caused by increasing breast-feeding rates in the U.S.
Also in the U.S.
we're encouraged by the initial response to the advertising campaign for Enfagrow.
The longer-term development of a children's category in the U.S.
remains one of the company's biggest growth opportunities.
We also saw solid share gains in Canada where we're now the market leader.
And lastly our restructuring of our European business is paying off.
Europe posted solid revenue growth for the year and improved profitability despite the challenging macro environment there.
Let me now return to our global business and our outlook for 2014.
Wrapping up my comments on 2013 on a global basis we're pleased with constant dollar sales growth of 9%.
Even discounting for rapid growth in high-inflation environments our business grew strongly in 2013.
Now let me comment on our outlook for 2014.
I wish to highlight we provide this outlook at a time of particularly high volatility in the foreign exchange markets with many emerging market currencies under some pressure.
Despite the somewhat uncertain environment we look forward to another strong year of growth.
We expect constant dollar sales growth of about 7% for the full year 2014.
We expect Asia constant dollar sales to grow at a rate similar to 2013 despite intensifying competition in China.
In Latin America we again expect double-digit sales growth in constant dollars.
We've scaled back our expectations for growth in Venezuela reflecting the unique challenges associated with that market.
We expect the North America/Europe segment to deliver sales growth in the low single digits on a go-forward basis.
Growth will likely be driven by continued progress in our children's category and the success of our Nutramigen allergy franchise.
We expect gross margins to be negatively affected by rising dairy costs and weakening emerging market currencies.
As we've said previously we expect gross margin to return to its historical level.
Pete will provide more detail on that in a moment.
Despite lower expected margins we continue to invest in demand-generation activities at a level consistent with our growth ambition yet not at the exceptional levels of 2013 which supported a China market share recovery and launches of U.S.
Enfagrow advertising and Brazil toddler product lines.
In view of the increased volatility in foreign exchange markets and higher dairy costs we are providing a widened guidance range for earnings per share.
We expect non-GAAP earnings per share for 2014 between $3.50 and $3.62.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial insights.
I'll then return to provide some closing comments before we field your questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Kasper addressed sales growth so I'll start out with some brief comments on foreign exchange.
I'll then walk down the income statement providing highlights on both our 2013 results and our 2014 guidance.
I'll then share a few noteworthy items on our balance sheet and cash flow.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 9% in 2013.
Foreign exchange reduced full year sales growth by 1% resulting in reported sales growth of 8%.
The strengthening dollar was most noticeable in the second half of the year with the greatest impact coming from Latin America.
During the fourth quarter foreign exchange reduced total company sales by 3%.
Including balance sheet remeasurement losses the stronger dollar reduced EPS by about $0.12 during the full year of 2013 although higher pricing offset the impact in most markets.
Turning to 2014.
We have seen a further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar during January again with the greatest impact in Latin America.
For example last week the government in Argentina reduced its support for the peso leading to a mid-teen devaluation.
If exchange rates remain at their current level throughout 2014 we would expect translation impacts to reduce sales by about 2.5% with an unfavorable impact on earnings per share of $0.08 compared to 2013.
Venezuela recently announced a 2-tier exchange rate system but we currently believe that they will hold exchange rates flat for food and nutrition companies.
As a result the unfavorable $0.08 impact from foreign exchange in 2014 that I just mentioned does not include any currency effects resulting from our business in Venezuela.
We remain quite concerned however with this market and our guidance assumes that volumes will fall in 2014 following a very rapid expansion last year.
In the last several months we have seen a significant slowdown in government approvals to exchange bolivars into dollars to pay for product that we bring into the country.
Our exposed bolivar cash balance is increasing as a result.
We will consider limiting exports into Venezuela in order to manage our overall exposure.
Turning to profits.
We delivered full year gross margins of 63.5% in 2013 above our longer-term average in the range of 62% to 63%.
This was driven by pricing gains and our strong productivity program.
Cost savings from productivity lowered our cost of goods sold by 4%.
As we discussed in recent calls stock dairy prices started to increase in April of last year and as Kasper mentioned became more visible on our cost of goods sold in the fourth quarter.
The increase in dairy cost is a global phenomenon but the biggest impact in 2014 will be seen in Asia.
In addition gross margins this year will be affected by the temporary costs associated with the Singapore startup.
These are expected to total about $0.10 per share in 2014.
We'll see these diminish in 2015 and should be eliminated once the plant reaches full capacity currently projected by 2016.
We raised prices in select markets due to higher -- to rising dairy costs.
Higher pricing coupled with further productivity gains are expected to help maintain gross margins at or slightly below 62.5% in 2014 well within the range of our longer-term average.
In 2013 operating expenses came in at 40.4% of sales up 170 basis points from 38.7% in 2012.
Kasper noted that advertising and promotion or A&amp;P increased 120 basis points to 15.4%.
We will continue to invest in demand-generation spending at a level consistent with our growth ambitions and expect A&amp;P to come in around 15% of sales in 2014.
Higher operating expenses are also the result of a significant increase in other net expenses.
We saw significant increase in pension settlement costs which were most noticeable in the fourth quarter and reflected a greater level of retirements.
In addition our 2012 results included foreign exchange gains which did not reoccur in 2013.
Looking to 2014 we intend to drive greater leverage in our SG&amp;A infrastructure.
In addition we currently expect other net expenses to return to levels more in line with 2012.
The net impact of these savings is to lower total operating expenses to a level modestly above 39%.
Given the assumptions I just laid out on both gross margins and operating expenses 2014 EBIT margins are expected to be in the range of 23% to 23.5%.
Looking at taxes our effective tax rate or ETR was 24.2% in 2013.
You'll recall that in 2014 we saw an ETR of 26% excluding several favorable adjustments related to prior year's tax returns.
The ETR benefit is largely the result of relocating our Asian headquarters to Singapore.
We expect our global tax rate in 2014 to be in the range of 24% to 24.5% in line with our 2013 results.
Before summarizing our non-GAAP EPS guidance let me briefly discuss our expected trend for interest expense.
Interest expense fell from $65 million in 2012 to about $51 million in 2013 primarily as a result of the retirement of the final tranche of our borrowing for the Argentine acquisition.
In 2014 we expect interest expense will be about $60 million an increase of $0.03 per share.
There are several drivers.
First we need to refinance $500 million in notes issued by our U.S.
parent company in late 2009.
These come due in November of this year.
As you all are likely aware most of our cash sits outside the U.S.
Our plan is to refinance this debt with new long-term bonds and ideally push the maturity out from the original 5 years to 30 years.
We have a hedge in place that effectively locked in a relatively low long-term rate.
Second the existing bonds carry an amortized gain from a fixed to floating interest rate swap that will disappear once they are refinanced.
And finally accounting rules require us to capitalize a portion of our interest expense for large projects during the period prior to equipment testing.
So we will stop capitalizing interest and return to the regular expense recognition over the next 2 quarters.
To summarize our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.62 per share and about 7% constant dollar sales growth.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by about 2.5 points assuming currencies remain at their current level.
The slightly wider range in our EPS guidance at this early point in the year reflects greater uncertainty going into 2014 from a strengthening dollar and from the uncertainty about Venezuela.
I want to point out that we plan to move to mark-to-market pension accounting during the first quarter of 2014.
Our guidance does not incorporate this change.
You may recall that we closed our U.S.
pension plan to new participants immediately before our 2009 IPO and existing employees stopped getting any further credits for service at that time.
Effective in February U.S.
plan participants will also see no increase in pension benefits from further salary increases.
Given that the pension plan will then be fully frozen we intend to change our policy for recognizing pension expense.
As we make the change we plan to report the mark-to-market component of pension expense as a specified item excluded from non-GAAP results.
This will have the impact of increasing our non-GAAP EPS.
It is very important to note however that such an increase will not reflect an improvement in the operational performance of the business.
Due to the complexity of this accounting change and the requirement to recast historical information on a comparative basis we plan on issuing a separate 8-K with this information in advance of our first quarter 2014 results.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and cash flow.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $566 million during 2013 practically the identical level as in 2012.
That is exceptional performance as our capital spending of $250 million was nearly double that of the prior year.
We increased our dividend over 13% to $1.36 per share and we repurchased 1.1 million shares of our stock which consumed $88 million in cash.
Between dividends and share buybacks we returned about 63% of our free cash flow to our shareholders.
For 2014 capital spending is estimated at $180 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $90 million up from $83 million as production from the Singapore plant starts midyear.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
Before we open the lines for questions I'd like to give you my perspective on the global financial events of the last week or so and on Mead Johnson's ability to continue to prosper.
As the U.S.
economy gathers steam I believe we'll reap rewards from the investments we've made in innovation and demand creation through the economic slowdown.
The U.S.
clearly remains a key market for us and I feel particularly proud of the commitments we've made to innovation in that market over the 5 years of relatively weak economic performance.
Secondly I'd like to say that for roughly half of our 105-year history we've operated in emerging markets.
We now operate in over 50 countries and our senior management is drawn from around the globe.
Many of us myself included grew up in businesses with exposure to currency fluctuations and even political turmoil.
I believe that this experience has helped us develop a flexible organization that's ready to respond quickly to changes in the external environment.
We recognize that uncertainty is a fact of life.
But if you have the willingness to embrace it manage it adapt to it and continue to invest for growth then I believe you can succeed where others will stumble.
Mead Johnson has these abilities and will continue to invest in a fashion consistent with our growth ambition.
I'm convinced that over the long term GDP growth in our emerging markets will continue to outstrip that of developed markets as will job creation.
And as women take up these new jobs they will in many cases create dual-income families with the ability and desire to buy our brands for the benefit of their children.
It's due to these dynamics I remain confident in our company's ability to grow and prosper.
We remain committed to growing earnings per share at or above the rate of revenue over the longer term.
And I'd now like to hand the call back to the operator who'll open the lines for questions.
Derek over to you please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Pete one question I have do you -- before I ask the longer one do you think it's possible at some point to perhaps break out the Asia/LatAm organic growth driver a little bit pricing and volume on a historical basis? It would just make it a little bit easier from a modeling perspective.
And then my second question is any way we can quantify at this point if you gave this forgive me the mark-to-market pension benefit you're going to see to EPS this year? I didn't hear you provide any quantification of that.
And if you could maybe clarify that for us it would be helpful.
Sure.
We'll definitely be providing some price volume and exchange impact for our segment for the 3 geographies in our 10-K.
And so if we need to provide greater history we'll do that separately through a press release.
With regard to the pension accounting change I don't want to quantify it right now to be honest because we have to go back and recast the history as well and it's quite complicated.
And I think it could lead to a misleading year-over-year comparison without having that analysis complete.
But we will provide you as I said all the details associated with that well in advance of reporting our first quarter results.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more if I can sneak it in.
Any impact you can provide to us or detail you can provide to us on the potential tax rate benefit from the Singapore plant into 2015? I realize it's helping you in 2014.
But just as we model 2015 there's so many headwinds that go away and maybe this is an extra tail when we can think about too.
Any detail you can provide will be -- would be useful.
It's difficult I think because there's lots of moving parts as I think I mentioned in our Investor Day.
And our need for repatriating cash can always influence our reported tax rate.
But we wouldn't really expect to start to see the benefit from that plant until it gets to full capacity and that's probably not going to be until the very late part of 2015 or early 2016.
Your next question is from the line of Jason English Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions first on inflation.
As we look at the dairy cost curve dairy costs were meaningfully inflationary for you this quarter but it doesn't look like it gets a whole lot worse on a go forward of course barring any incremental moves to the spot rate.
Is that consistently your view as well? Well I think if you look at our gross margin for the fourth quarter which was 63% you heard me say that our gross margin for next year should be about 62.5% or slightly below that for the full year.
There will be a greater impact coming I think as we move at least through the first half of 2014.
I would say Jason too that our guidance assumes that there is some decline in dairy prices that could benefit us if you will in the second half of next year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Turning to China pricing really quick.
It's our understanding that Wyeth and Nestle have already begun to implement fresh price increases -- or effective price increases by churning over their portfolio.
Is that consistent with what you're seeing in the market? And if so what are the implications for your own portfolio in pricing in that market on a go forward? Jason this is Kasper.
Thanks for the question.
What you outlined is consistent with what we assume.
And I think we've said before we will continue to ensure that we are competitive on price.
But obviously prices we don't try and price at a discount.
So we'll evaluate the environment both from a consumer standpoint and from a competitor standpoint and then revise our pricing strategy accordingly.
I anticipate that you're going to want to follow up and ask me about portfolio in China and it won't surprise you that we don't want to comment on future innovation in the market.
Your next question is from the line of Eric Katzman Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Pete could you quantify what your overall basket of inflation you expect to be up as a function of COGS or -- can you do that please? Yes sure.
I just -- we expect to see COGS inflation of about -- well in the high single digits I think for the course of this year.
And that would incorporate not only what we're seeing with dairy pricing but also the impact of the startup expenses with the new Singapore plant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- in terms of like the Venezuela and Argentina I'm not sure I got all that.
So you basically included what Argentina has done so far but Venezuela it seems like it's still to be determined.
I mean is it at a point where -- like are those businesses already being accounted for like on a hyperinflationary basis? Sure.
Venezuela is hyperinflationary and so the U.S.
dollar is the functional currency there.
And the issue is the government's running out of cash.
We saw very impressive volume gains in 2013.
And because we're not getting paid for the product that we're shipping into the country in order to manage our bolivar exposure we may end up reducing our exports into Venezuela.
So we're going from a year where we had very significant volume gains to a year where we expect volumes to decline and that's -- that has a big impact on the growth if you will for the Latin America segment.
I do want to point out just as an aside that pulling Venezuela out of it we expect to see very healthy double-digit growth throughout the rest of Latin America.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes -- well partly.
So at this point your -- I'm just trying to remember.
Your -- or I think it was Kasper's comments on expectations.
So Latin America local currency up double digit that's -- does that include Venezuela or -- it does.
It does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so as a -- as hyperinflation that's going to -- where will -- because I don't think we've -- since you've been public we've had -- you reported hyperinflation.
So what would the -- the impact would then shift to the net interest expense line or other expense? No no no.
Venezuela has been on hyperinflation accounting for many many years since we've been public.
There's no change associated with that.
Your next question is from the line of David Driscoll Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit more about the sales growth expectation.
So constant currency sales growth 2013 is up 9% but you're guiding to 7%.
So the -- I think the question is it's like it feels -- North America the numbers don't look particularly good for 2014 because of all the things that were going on in there.
That gets better.
Asia seems like it's -- it gets better and/or I think you actually said constant.
So that's pretty good because it's such a huge chunk.
And then there's this Latin America change.
What did it grow grew 22% or something like that in 2013? And then you say double digits so there's a big range in there.
When you see a slowdown year-to-year is there something you're just trying to point out? I mean is this something you really want people to focus on a slowdown in constant currency growth from '13 to '14? Or are you taking a conservative approach to this forecast given all of the craziness in the market today? I think we are partially taking a conservative approach given the uncertainty in the market David.
It's an excellent question.
The other thing I'd like to point out is I'd like to just return to what Pete said about Venezuela.
And we've clearly taken the view that we would -- we can't and won't continue to run up exposure to Venezuela and therefore we are assuming that we will be holding back some shipment into Venezuela to just balance our payments out of the country with our shipments into the country.
So I think we've been -- over the last 3 quarters or so we've been very explicit to you guys about the contribution coming from these high-inflation environments and we are simply building in a little bit more what should we say fiscal conservatism to the way we will conduct the business there in the months going forward.
Research Division</strong> That was excellent.
Final question for me is just can you give us a bit more clarity on North American profits kind of in the fourth quarter and throughout the year? Pete this thing is so tough to model on a quarter.
The volatility of North American profits -- North America and Europe profits is fairly huge.
The fourth quarter I think is a perfect case in point.
What's going on here? And I love the comment about non-WIC share gains and that generally makes me think it's good for profits.
But of course profits were down year-on-year so definitely need a little help.
When you look at North America/Europe for the quarter margins were definitely down just by under 8%.
It's the -- all that is coming from demand-generation investments.
And I think we've said repeatedly and we appreciate the difficulty of looking at quarterly trends but there is -- and we don't give quarterly guidance because the timing of when we make investments in any market can vary quite significantly.
You heard Ivonne at our Investor Day talk about the investments we were making in Enfagrow particularly in the fourth quarter and that's the reason that margins are down for North America/Europe in the fourth quarter.
I'd have you look at the full year number as something more representative of what we're trying to achieve which actually had an improvement in EBIT margins of 60 basis points.
Your next question is from the line of Amit Sharma BMO Capital.
Pete I have couple of detailed questions and then a slightly longer term.
The nonrecurring tax benefit in the fourth quarter can you quantify that? And is it possible to give price-volume breakdown for 7% in constant currency sales in 2014? The nonrecurring tax benefit I think probably improved earnings by about $0.01 a share.
That can have a big impact on a given quarter.
But it wasn't material I think over the course of the year.
There's always puts and takes.
And with regard to the 7% constant dollar sales growth I think we expect to see a very healthy balance between volume and pricing.
Okay.
And Kasper as we look forward I mean Latin America is becoming a bigger portion of the portfolio or at least a bigger portion of the growth and margins in that business are well below where margins in other emerging markets are.
Can you frame that discussion around structurally how should we think about margins in Latin America? Would it ever get to the margin in Asia? Or will we continue to see margins well below of that region? Amit that's a -- it's a very good question.
I think really the explanation is quite simple though and it's in 2 parts.
Firstly it's been our fastest-growing region now for quite some time.
And as a consequence of that we have -- we've chosen to invest heavily in the region.
The region has a relatively large percentage of sales going toward sales force in particularly certainly higher than Asia.
Secondly scale is the main contributor to the difference.
You will -- you'll immediately understand that if we double sales in the region we would obviously leverage our infrastructure quite significantly and that would equate many of the sort of differences.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew Grainger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus on the impact of competitors' recalls that occurred a few months ago.
Is there anything you can tell us to sort of help us better quantify or understand the magnitude of the benefit that you're seeing right now on your market share from sort of on an absolute level or the impact it might have had on fourth quarter sales growth? And maybe the right way to frame it is are you getting your fair share or any more or less? And as a consequence of those recalls what are you seeing from a competitive standpoint as far as those same competitors trying to spend to regain lost share? Matthew that's -- it's a good question.
I mean we believe we're getting our fair share.
And it's always very difficult when you're gaining share to identify exactly why you're gaining it apart from the fact that you're obviously executing well and I guess in totality almost by definition executing better than your competitors in that particular period.
We remain very focused on our own plans.
It's always a competitive environment and I'm sure it will be a very competitive environment.
I'm sure the players who have lost share whether it be in China or other markets are going to invest in getting that share back and we recognized that within our annual plans for '14.
Research Division</strong> And Kasper just as a follow-up.
I don't know if you can expand on it but within your guidance that you've laid out for 2014 does that assume perhaps that your share returns to its pre-August levels by the midpoint in the year? Or do you currently expect to end up in an absolute level of market share higher than when that event occurred? No we are certainly not anticipating to give back share.
I mean if we look at our share particularly in China if I just deal with China where I guess the impact on competitors has been most pronounced there'll be gained share through 2013 by historical standards.
Our share in China certainly does not look unsustainable.
So we are confident that -- about our ability to hold on to what we've got.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Andersen from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> One clarification question and then one broader.
Pete did you mention I may have missed it the impact of higher pension settlement expense in the fourth quarter '13 relative to '12? Yes I did.
Research Division</strong> And what was that amount? It was up $0.03 a share.
Research Division</strong> $0.03 okay.
And then the press release cites lower category consumption in the U.S.
as kind of a factor on fourth quarter results for the North American piece of the business.
What are your expectations for category consumption in the U.S.
as you look ahead to '14 and maybe the dynamic between births and kind of -- and consumption itself to breastfeeding rates? Jon we've been fairly conservative around our assumptions pertaining to consumption levels.
The birth picture is certainly better in the U.S.
than it has been over the last 3 4 years.
Consumption is still under pressure as breastfeeding rates are rising.
Now we've said before that we are hopeful that if the economy improves and therefore employment for women particularly change then we are hopeful that we will see that plateau or even tail off somewhat.
But we have a reasonably conservative set of assumptions in.
Your next question is from the line of Ingrid Yin Oppenheimer.
I have a question around Hong Kong.
Your business has certainly done very well in 2013 even with the export restriction.
There are still shortage of your product there and Hong Kong government is considering -- put more regulation there.
What's your thought going forward? Will the extension of the restriction policy dilute the growth for your company in that market this year? Ingrid this is Kasper.
We're not anticipating that growth would be negatively impacted by any change in the environment whether the restrictions have tightened or loosened.
Now I have to stress that that's -- it is very hard to talk about restrictions if you don't understand yet.
But assuming the picture remains as it is today we -- what we have really seen is that it would appear that additional foot traffic across the China/Hong Kong border has made up for the restrictions on the volume of product that each person can carry across the border.
And as you correctly said though we were originally somewhat nervous about the impact of these restrictions it would appear that the impact ended up having very little impact on our annual results.
Okay great.
Can you speak a little bit about how we should look at gross margin trends? I mean I know you gave a guidance for the year.
But in terms of quarters how should we think about that? We're not giving guidance by quarters either.
But we would expect -- I did mention that the higher dairy prices are going to be more of a factor in the first half of the year.
So that factor by itself would tend to indicate they might be lower in the first half then a bit higher in the second half.
So should we see the second half gross margin improve because -- do you expect that impact to only last for the first half? Or do you see more pressure towards -- spill over to the second half? We have seen some moderation in dairy prices and that's what led us to forecast that dairy -- COGS the COGS element would improve somewhat in the second half.
I don't want to go beyond that because quite frankly mix in countries and things like that can have an impact on the gross margin as much as commodity costs.
Okay great.
I guess we don't have a very good color on the European market.
I mean how does this -- I mean this region do in the fourth quarter and compare with the first three quarters in 2013? And what is your view for that region going forward this year and even further? Ingrid that's -- it's a good question.
I -- as you know we don't break out Europe from North America.
So I'm not sure I want to say a lot more than I said in my prepared remarks.
But let me just remind you that we did say that we're very pleased with the effects of the restructuring we've done over the past 18 months or so in Europe and we saw solid revenue growth in Europe in 2013.
And accompanying that we saw quite a dramatic improvement in profitability in the region as well.
Now we have to balance that against the fact that Europe is a fairly small part of our overall global business and indeed it is a relatively modest part of the segment as well.
But certainly we're happy with the progress we are making.
The overall environment in Europe of course remains very challenging.
We are in a slightly unique situation in the sense that we have concentrated our business in Western Europe around winning in the allergy segment where we have a very strong market share and indeed have a technically superior product.
So we believe that even in a tough environment we will continue to post strong results out of Europe.
And Ingrid to be respectful to the other sell-sides who haven't gotten to ask a question I'd like to move on.
Your next question is from the line of John Baumgartner Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper just wanted to revisit Asia here and I think you had called out some disappointing performance I think in the Philippines/Indonesia.
What's sort of driving that in your view? Is it competitive issues? Is it more self-inflicted? Just wondering if you could provide some color there.
Yes.
John I mean -- I think it's important when we talk about our performance to remind ourselves that we compete in more than 50 countries around the world and it would be disingenuous of us to pretend that we performed equally well everywhere in every period we discuss.
Hence I've endeavored to be relatively candid with you guys around sort of business issues in select markets.
And you're right to say that I called out The Philippines and Indonesia as having failed to meet our expectations in the year that we just concluded.
I believe it is largely self-inflicted.
We clearly did not execute as well as we should have in those 2 markets in 2013.
Now you can imagine that that's the topic of a lot of discussion and is receiving a lot of focus from both the local leadership as well as the regional leadership.
And I feel confident that we have the ability to sort of manage through that and put these businesses back on the right keel.
But we -- I don't want to hide behind any external factors but simply say that we have room for improvement in our own execution.
Your next question is from the line of Diane Geissler CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Pete thanks for all the detail on the currency which sounds like it's going to be pretty vexing this year for you to just handle.
I wanted to ask about -- so the $0.08 call-out on the currency and looking at that if I just simplistically add that back into your guidance range I'm still coming up with a EPS growth rate sort of spans your top line organic sales growth.
So Kasper you had mentioned that your overall growth goals are for earnings growth or EPS growth at a rate faster than sales.
And I guess I'm just -- I'm trying to puzzle out here.
Look I know your guidance is always going to be conservative at the start of the year because there's just so many darn things that can go wrong during the year.
And this year in particular with the currencies it sounds like it's just a headache for you.
But I guess for investors who have been in your stock or looking at your stock longer term as an investment in the emerging markets shouldn't the growth rate be higher than 7% to 9%? I can kind of get that from any packaged food company at a lower P/E.
And I guess what I'm looking for here is can you -- given all the volatility can you walk us through to the how that can work on a longer-term basis? Yes right Diane.
I continue to think that the strong performance -- I mean clearly it's harder to give guidance with so much fluctuation and volatility in the foreign exchange markets particularly when it comes to the earnings per share range which is why we've chosen to broaden the range beyond what we have historically done.
If I wasn't sufficiently clear in the prepared remarks then let me repeat the fact that in the longer term over time we stated in our -- on our Investor Day that our clear financial objective was to grow earnings per share at or above the rate of sales.
Now there's going to be individual periods within that longer term where that may or may not happen but I wanted to give you all a sense of how we were thinking about the business and how we go about thinking about strategy as we respond to the external environment.
So that -- you correctly observed that at the top end of our guidance range you have earnings growing in line with revenue.
And then we've highlighted some uncertainties which depends on how they play out would take you to a different point in the guidance range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well maybe just to...
And we feel good about the underlying growth.
I -- it wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on what other companies can deliver but I guess we feel good about the long-term prospects.
And we still feel that our business mix and the way we weight -- we are weighted towards emerging markets will provide us with a superior growth profile over time.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe just to ask a little bit more fundamental question can you -- look China had many disruptions last year which we noted kind of all year long between the cross-border restrictions Hong Kong into China and the pricing and the recall et cetera.
Can you just maybe give us a clearer picture of what you think this entire category grew in China in 2013? Just so that we have some kind of baseline to think about in terms of okay the Chinese economy is growing X percent and formula sales in total are growing X percent.
Because there's just so much disruption in that market.
It's really sometimes hard to get a clear picture and kind of that's what forms the basis of our earnings right? And I think that would be very helpful.
Yes.
Diane it's an excellent question and I don't blame you for being a bit confused about it.
It is very very difficult given the very significant channel overlap in China and the emergence now of a relatively poorly monitored Internet channel.
It's very difficult to say what total market growth in China is.
So we have consistently I think -- as I said to you guys that we're sort of working based on -- I guess really based on common sense looking at consumptions and birth rates and stuff like that.
And we believe that volume growth in that market will continue to sort of be in the low single digits plus some price.
Now within that there'll be individual's price segments that are growing faster than other price segments.
So you'll have different companies being positioned differently and therefore looking at different growth prospects.
But I think you -- if you root yourself in the birthrate and then allow for some shift in the demographics or the social economic demographics in China then that's probably the best way for you to look at it.
I recognize that there is a wide range of growth rates being provided by different companies.
Okay.
I think operator that we are actually out of time.
So thank you everybody for listening to our earnings call.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katina and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Katina and good morning to everyone listening.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appear in this morning's earnings release posted on the Investors Section of our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates at a subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us on this call.
I'll highlight our overall operating performance in the first quarter before discussing each of our segments and our updated earnings guidance.
Pete will then provide additional details on our financial performance and I'll wrap up with some comments before we take questions.
Turning now to the first quarter of 2014.
We had a strong start to the year with a record revenue and earnings in the latest quarter.
As you likely read in this morning's press release revenue grew at 11% on a constant dollar basis driven by strong performance in all geographic segments and particularly strong growth in 2 -- in our 2 largest markets of China and the U.S.
Volume grew strongly in every region and versus prior year quarter was up 7% for the total company driven by strong market share performance across all regions.
Our sales momentum is the result of increased investment in demand creation and innovation.
A few examples of initiatives from around the world include: the launch in several markets of our latest Enfagrow children's formulation.
This formulation has been optimized to provide the best possible glycemic index and help sustain mental energy over time by promoting a slow steady supply of glucose.
Further our commitment last year to invest more heavily in the growing optimal category in North America is paying off.
Enfagrow continues to grow at rates well in excess of the North America/Europe segment as a whole.
And our solutions in specialty portfolio has been introduced into Asia over the past 2 years and we now have broadbased distribution across the region.
In the U.S.
again our allergy business under the Nutramigen brand continues to gain market share and on a global basis this part of our portfolio again grew double digits in the first quarter.
Across our global portfolio we successfully offset weakness in emerging market currencies with price.
Pricing contributed 4 percentage points in total to our first quarter growth rate of 11%.
Pricing gains in Venezuela and Argentina contributed 2% of the company's constant dollar growth rate.
I want to note that the North America/Europe segment driven largely by the U.S.
has had a very strong start to the year.
We're very encouraged by this though we caution you against attaching too much importance to segment growth rates within individual quarters.
Turning to earnings I want to point out that all earnings numbers that we'll discuss this morning as well as those detailed in our press release have been recast for a change to mark-to-market pension accounting that we adopted in the first quarter.
People go through the details on the subject but note that our non-GAAP financial comparisons now eliminate any distortion caused by volatility in pension expenses and present an even more transparent view of our underlying operational performance.
Note also that this change has had only a very small impact on our first quarter results.
Non-GAAP earnings were up 16% to $1.02 per share from $0.88 in the first quarter of 2013.
Our gross margin of 63.6% was noticeably strong in the quarter as a result of strong sales performance in our larger more-profitable markets.
Pete will provide further details in a moment.
Strong revenue and operating efficiencies also resulted in a better than expected EBIT margin despite the impact of weaker emerging market currencies.
Our EBIT margin was further positively impacted by the planned timing of promotional activity in Asia and Latin America and strong investment in demand creation in general.
Consistent with our commitment to invest appropriately in the business to support future growth we grew advertising and promotional expenditure in line with revenue in the first quarter.
A&amp;P came in at 14% of sales lower than the approximately 15% we expect for the full year.
This seasonal pattern is entirely consistent with timing patterns we've seen in prior years.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments and start with Asia.
In the first quarter revenue in our Asia business grew 9% on a constant dollar basis over prior year quarter; 6% came from volume gains and 3% from pricing.
The China/Hong Kong business grew double digits in constant dollar sales despite a tough comparison caused by the 2013 export restrictions implemented in Hong Kong.
And performance within our biggest business in Asia was a key driver of volume growth within the segment.
We're pleased to report that we gained market share in China both versus prior year and on a sequential basis.
Though it's hard to quantify we do attribute part of this gain to the temporary benefit from competitors' 2013 supply disruptions.
As expected prices remained stable in China against the prior year.
In the balance of Asia we saw solid growth overall.
Pricing played a relatively more important role than volume helping to offset both rising dairy costs and weaker currencies.
This largely reflects actions we took in the second half of 2013 to help mitigate the impact of dairy costs on 2014 earnings.
As we've said before our Asian businesses are most exposed to any rising dairy input costs.
We continue to see a strengthening of our competitive position in several Asian markets including China and Malaysia while we've stabilized our important business in the Philippines after a difficult 2013.
Our business in Indonesia remains a work in progress but we are committed to the country and to the opportunity.
In Singapore we've begun qualification runs at our newly built facility and we remain on track for commercial production to commence in the third quarter of 2014.
The project is progressing to our planned timeline and budget and people are justifiably proud of what they're accomplishing there.
Full year outlook in Asia remains unchanged at this time with constant dollar sales growth expected at a rate similar to prior year.
I'll turn now to Latin America.
Constant dollar sales grew 21% in the first quarter 11% from pricing and 10% from volume growth.
Pricing gains in the high inflation environments of Venezuela and Argentina contributed just less than 10% to the segment's constant dollar growth rate.
Continued price increases would be needed in both these markets to offset the impact on profitability of rapidly depreciating currencies.
Absent this somewhat unusual pricing impact constant dollar growth for the region was still in the low double digits.
We're pleased with the overall performance in Latin America.
We do face noticeable headwinds from foreign exchange but we continue to execute our strategy.
And as I've said we're making good progress towards established goals.
Growth was broad based and reflective of both higher pricing and market share gains.
We continued to make progress across the region.
In Brazil our infant formula business is growing nicely despite the challenging economic environment.
And our Peruvian business continues to grow in double digits off an ever larger base while our competitive position in Colombia looks set to strengthen for the fifth consecutive year.
We've highlighted the high level of uncertainty seen in Venezuela in our recent public comments.
Despite the uncertain environment we saw strong volume growth within the business in the first quarter.
We don't expect current growth rates to continue through the remainder of the year as we increase our efforts to firstly ensure shipments reflect in market consumption and secondly manage our financial exposure conservatively.
As a result we expect to report somewhat lower growth in Latin America in coming quarters.
I want to emphasize though that this does not affect our confidence in the long-term potential of the region nor does it imply lack of progress towards our longer-term ambition.
In the first quarter of 2014 EBIT was in line with prior year's quarter in the region.
In addition to adverse foreign exchange impact a high receivable allowance for a distributor in Mexico negatively impacted the region's earnings for the first quarter.
But we are still expecting to show strong double-digit constant dollar growth for the full year 2014 with the impact on our bottom line being significantly offset by weakening currencies.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
Constant dollar revenue in our North America/Europe segment grew 9% with our U.S.
business showing particularly strong progress versus prior year quarter.
As mentioned earlier our growing up milk initiative in North America behind which we began investing strongly last year continues to show strong momentum.
And I'm especially satisfied to report solid share gains for our infant formula business.
Success in both of these areas more than offset the impact of a still-weak category that continues to shrink due to declining consumption.
About 4 points of the segment's growth in revenue was a result of timing factors and are not expected to impact full year growth rates.
These factors included inventory -- retailer inventory changes prebuying against promotions and changes to weaker calls [ph].
For the company as a whole these factors added 1 point to our quarterly growth rate.
Notwithstanding these factors we believe underlying revenue growth for the first quarter 2014 was still very strong at mid single digits within the segment.
We're very pleased with quarterly EBIT growth of 25% for North America/Europe.
This earnings improvement was delivered while investment in advertising and promotion in the region increased by 28% in constant dollars.
EBIT margins for the segment were adversely impacted while we remain in investment mode behind our Enfagrow initiative in the U.S.
To help fund these investments we intend to take appropriate actions going forward to protect our gross margins as costs increase.
Based on the strong U.S.
results we now anticipate that North America/Europe constant dollar sales will grow in the low to mid single digits for the full year.
Our expectations reflect continued strong momentum impacted somewhat by tougher comparables in the coming quarters.
Let me talk now about our annual guidance.
And -- By summarizing our 2014 full year outlook for the total company I will say that this morning we raised our guidance and we now expect constant dollar revenue growth of approximately 8% for the full year 2014 up from the approximately 7% on which our earlier guidance was based.
The stronger-than-anticipated performance in our North America/Europe segment is an important driver of the improved outlook.
In addition we see constant dollar growth boosted slightly more than expected by pricing gains in high-inflation markets in Latin America.
We do not anticipate these pricing gains to translate into significant improvements in profitability however.
Based on current exchange rates we now expect changes in currency rates to adversely impact reported sales by approximately 4 percentage points for the full quarter -- for the full year sorry.
We've revised our non-GAAP earnings expectations to between $3.60 and $3.72 a share up $0.10 from our prior guidance.
About 1/3 of this increase comes from strengthening operational performance and approximately 2/3 of the expected result as a consequence of change in our pension accounting.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide a little more texture to our financials.
Following Pete's section I'll return with some closing remarks before we open the line for questions.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Before I provide additional perspective on our financial results I want to offer a few highlights on the mark-to-market pension accounting change that we adopted during the first quarter.
We released a lot of additional information this morning as the results of the change in accounting methodology including recast financials.
In addition to our 10-Q we filed an 8-K that updates the numbers in our 2013 10-K.
Given that most of our listeners are in the midst of a busy earnings season we issued a second 8-K that summarizes both previous and recast financials that are most critical in updating your financial models.
There are 5 years of annual data and 2 years of quarterly data in that filing.
Pension accounting is not an intuitive subject.
So let me highlight what I consider are the 5 most important points.
First under our previous methodology pension actuarial gains and losses were deferred and amortized into earnings over the expected remaining service period of active employees.
Pension settlement charges were recognized when incurred.
Under the new methodology actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately as a mark-to-market adjustment in the fourth quarter of each year or more frequently if a remeasurement event occurs.
Second we will treat mark-to-market adjustments as specified items that will be excluded from our non-GAAP financials.
These will be reported in corporate other and will not affect our 3 regional segments.
Third as a result of these first 2 factors non-GAAP earnings increase from the elimination of both the amortization of deferred losses and pension settlement charges.
For 2013 non-GAAP earnings per share increased $0.13 as a result of the accounting change from $3.38 to $3.51 per share.
Settlement charges were particularly high last year due to the retirement of several long-term employees.
In 2014 non-GAAP EPS is expected to increase by about $0.06 to $0.07 per share due to the change in accounting methodology.
Note that the impact in the first quarter of 2014 was relatively small at $0.01 per share.
Fourth while we made the change to all of our global pension postretirement plans about 75% of our net liability is in the U.S.
Our Asia and Latin America segments see only minor adjustments in profitability and margins with a more noticeable and positive change in North America/Europe.
Fifth any future mark-to-market adjustment will be largely driven by changes in discount rates.
Increasing interest rates will lead to a mark-to-market gains as was the case in our recast 2013.
Decreasing interest rates will lead to a mark-to-market loss.
Our unfunded net pension and postretirement liability of approximately $160 million measured on an accounting basis would be eliminated if we saw both our asset returns and discount rate increased by a little over 2%.
Please note that this is an accounting change only.
We did not change the asset mix the structure of our plans nor our funding strategy.
Now turning to the P&amp;L Kasper already addressed sales growth so I'll start with foreign exchange then provide highlights as I walk down the income statement and wrap up with a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 11% in the first quarter.
Foreign exchange reduced sales growth by 4% resulting in reported sales growth of 7%.
About half of the foreign exchange impact in the first quarter came from Venezuela and Argentina.
Absent these 2 markets currency effects reduced global sales by 2%.
The Chinese renminbi weakened by about 1% against the dollar during the first quarter but on average there was a slight benefit for this currency compared to the prior year.
If current rates continue for the rest of 2014 we expect to see foreign exchange reduce reported sales by 4%.
That is a bigger impact from the 2.5% expected in our last call.
Venezuela is the key factor.
I noted in our last call that the Venezuelan government announced they would continue to offer an exchange rate of VEF 6.3 to the dollar for higher priority goods including our category.
In January we had expected to use this rate for translating our 2014 financial results although we had recognized the risk by expanding our EPS guidance range.
A second rate available through a government-sponsored auction commonly referred to as SICAD I also came into existence and ended March at VEF 10.7 to the U.S.
dollar.
Based on new legislation we adopted the SICAD I rate for use in our financials at the very end of February.
That led to an unfavorable translation impact in reported dollar profitability in the month of March along with the $0.02 balance sheet remeasurement loss.
There are a couple additional points worth mentioning.
Venezuela delivered about $0.13 in earnings during 2013 caused by high inflation throughout the year with no devaluation beyond the correction early in the first quarter.
We currently expect that this market will contribute only $0.04 to our 2014 EPS a decline of $0.09 per share.
None of that decline was realized in the first quarter which saw both notable volume and pricing gains compared to the prior year.
You may recall we mentioned a significant slowdown in government approvals during the fourth quarter of 2013 to exchange bolivars into dollars.
We used these dollars to pay for imported product from our plant in Mexico.
We are pleased that the government released dollars to us during Q1 at the favorable 6.3 rate which allowed us to pay our Mexican subsidiary and reduce our risk by lowering our bolivar cash balance.
We imported some additional product as a result which helped volume growth.
However we anticipate that sales growth was slow in the remainder of the year and profitability will fall accordingly.
One reason is that the full quarterly impact from unfavorable translation in Venezuela will start to be felt in the second quarter.
Second the quarterly comparisons get tougher moving forward.
Venezuelan sales were up noticeably once we move beyond the first quarter of last year.
And finally our recent price control decree could limit our ability to get additional pricing in this market.
We are currently evaluating the new legislation.
Turning to profits.
In the first quarter we delivered a gross margin of 63.6% up 120 basis points from the first quarter of 2013 which had the lowest quarterly gross margin last year.
Despite this easier comparison this was particularly good performance in light of very strong dairy headwinds particularly in Asia.
As Kasper mentioned strong sales in the higher-margin U.S.
markets the timing of WIC accruals in the U.S.
and lower packaging in nondairy commodity costs were all factors.
We expect to see higher packaging in nondairy costs in coming quarters and this specific benefit will not be sustained for the full year.
We continue to forecast $0.10 in costs associated with the new Singapore facility in 2014 from preproduction startup costs in the first half followed by the impact of low-capacity utilization in the second half.
We had a bit less than $0.02 in the first quarter with the residual $0.08 spread about equally across the remaining 3 quarters.
We now expect full year gross margins to run below 62.5% by 10 to as much as 30 basis points.
This means that gross margins in the remaining quarters of 2014 are expected to average slightly below 62%.
The sequential decline is the result of the reversal of the favorable timing factors seen in the first quarter coupled with higher startup costs from Singapore and the impact of Venezuela.
A lower gross margin will reduce future sequential average quarterly earnings by about $0.06 per share.
Total operating expense came in at 36.9% of sales in the first quarter 50 basis points lower than the prior year.
This drop was expected mainly due to a small gain from the sale of our equity interest in our former Saudi joint venture.
Advertising and promotional spending in the first quarter grew in line with sales growth and was 14% of sales.
We expect higher investment levels as we roll out innovation in coming quarters.
On a percentage of sales basis full year A&amp;P is expected to come in around 15%.
On average EPS will be lower by about $0.04 a share in remaining quarters again relative to the first quarter from higher-demand generation investments.
On a full year basis we now expect operating expenses between 38% and 38.5%.
That's down from 3 months ago when we projected OpEx near 39% of sales.
The new pension accounting is the most significant driver.
2014 EBIT margins are now expected to come within 30 basis points of 24% basically flat on a recast basis for the prior year.
Looking at taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 25.7% compared to 26% in the prior year quarter from a favorable country mix.
On a full year basis our ETR is expected to be about 24.5% the high end of the 24% to 24.5% range previously expected.
The pension accounting change is again the biggest factor.
We're effectively increasing non-GAAP earnings in the U.S.
which continues to carry the highest tax rate in our portfolio.
The 2014 non-GAAP ETR is right in line with the recast 24.4% tax rate last year.
Interest expense is expected to run near $57 million for the full year.
As a reminder we plan to refinance the $500 million in notes due this November possibly in the second quarter.
Ideally we will replace 5-year debt with 30-year bonds which would increase the effective coupon on the borrowing.
As a result interest expense would run as the higher quarterly rate once the refi is completed.
We're pleased that Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded our company credit rating this week to BBB+ with our debt rated at BBB.
Previously we carried a rating of BBB BBB-.
To summarize our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.72 per share on approximately 8% constant dollar sales growth.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by about 4% assuming currencies remain at their current level.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and cash flow.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was about $135 million in the first quarter after consuming $63 million in cash for capital spending.
For the full year capital spending is expected to remain unchanged at $180 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $90 million.
During the first quarter our Board of Directors announced a 10% increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.34 to $0.375 per share.
As a result dividends paid out of the 2014 earnings will run at a level above $300 million a year.
We also purchased 289 000 shares of stock in the first quarter returning an additional $22.5 million in cash to shareholders.
With that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
I'd like to make a few more comments before we as promised open the line to questions.
Firstly we tend to take our record on product quality for granted and doing so would ignore the tremendous effort by coworkers in both our product development and our supply chain across the world an effort to continually deliver on our corporate brand promise of quality.
These efforts cover all activities from sourcing of raw materials to manufacturing.
And in the first quarter of 2014 we maintained our proud record on product quality.
Within our financials this was reflected again in very low levels of waste and rework.
Secondly I want to recognize the progress we made against our growth and innovation agenda.
Critical growth initiatives were delivered on time and with quality.
This includes both initiatives related to manufacturing capacity expansion and the timely execution of planned marketing initiatives.
And finally I'm very pleased with our record sales in the quarter our record earnings and our full year outlook.
We'll continue to invest strongly in demand creation.
We regard these investments as fundamental as they underpin our growth ambitions and our commitment to create value for our shareholders.
And with that we'd now like to open the line to your questions.
Operator I hand the call back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane representing Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question related to North America and the rollout of Enfagrow.
Just if you -- with this early start so far how much of the sales right now are -- could you estimate are repeat sales? How much of it is distribution gain using [ph] pipeline sale and if you could just give any early read so far on where you think the product is taking market share from? So meaning are parents use supplementing this with milk or any other sort of products.
Trying to just to get a sense for what the uptick has been and maybe how big the market can be? Bryan thanks for the question.
I'm happy to answer that.
We've not seen any distribution gains impacting the first quarter in the U.S.
But we do expect that through the year we will have increases in distribution in the U.S.
which will help our sales a little bit in subsequent quarters.
Obviously it's a very insightful question and I can assure you that we pay a lot of attention to monitoring both our trial rates but also importantly our repeat rates.
And I'm very very pleased with the repeat purchase rates that we are seeing of Enfagrow which is really one of the key drivers of our continued ability and willingness to invest in building that business.
So very encouraged on that.
With regard to where the sales are coming from I think we're really -- this is very exciting because we are creating a whole new category really in the U.S.
and I think consumption is largely coming from regular cow's milk which is very consistent with how we've seen this category develop around the world that we're really managing to make parents understand that enhanced nutrition has a role to play in their children's diet well beyond 12 months of age.
And that's very encouraging.
So we're very optimistic about this.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger representing Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Kasper you mentioned an ongoing Enfagrow relaunch on a global basis.
Is there anything you can say so far about the impact this has had on market share in countries where it is being distributed? And is it something that you've currently launched or have plans to relaunch in China? And I think I know the answer to this but just to ask it anyway is there any reason to believe that if you do launch this new formulation in China that you would be constrained from pricing it at levels different from existing sales of Enfa children's products? Well let me firstly say that we sort of met our routine costs.
We don't really comment on our future plans Matthew.
You probably guessed that I would say that.
But innovating and renovating our product portfolio is kind of just a way that we do business.
It's a -- it's required to stay competitive.
And it's very early days as we go into this initiative.
We've obviously done a significant amount of concept testing and proving of these initiatives and we're pretty optimistic about that the fact that it'll help us strengthen our competitive position where we decide to launch it.
So I'm not sure I want to comment anymore about that.
I mean pricing in -- I said in my prepared remarks that pricing in China was stable with the prior year and I've said I think in previous calls that we do not believe that the kind of price monitoring that is ongoing in China will prevent partly any of the participants in the market from taking price increases and we're certainly optimistic that we'll be able to cover cost increases as we go forward.
But beyond that I don't want to really comment on any specific pricing plans in China or elsewhere for that matter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to close the loop are there any markets where you can say definitively that it has been launched at this point? It escapes me right now.
I think we've -- it's mainly been launched in South Asia and I think Thailand would be the one market that I could highlight.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Pete you highlighted that the pension change benefited 1Q by only $0.01 and that of course corresponds with what's in your Q.
I guess I'm a little confused.
In the press release you say possible future pension gains or losses were not reflected in guidance because they can't be estimated.
I guess I interpret that to mean future guidance is for pensions to have zero effect after 1Q.
And that's where I'm confused because if pensions help by $0.01 in 1Q but you're guiding I think to roughly a 6% 7% benefit from pensions for the year doesn't that sort of imply you are reflecting possible future gains in guidance that $0.06 $0.07 less the $0.01 from 1Q? I know I'm missing something obvious here.
I'm not just sure what it is.
Sure no.
It's quite confusing.
So the $0.01 that I mentioned referred to our non-GAAP results and our non-GAAP guidance reflects the full change that we expect to see with regard to the pension accounting methodology switch.
What I was referring to was on a GAAP basis we can't estimate what's going to go on with interest rates.
So when we come through with this mark-to-market adjustment which is going to be a specified item and only go through the GAAP results and not go through non-GAAP we can't -- our GAAP guidance would not anticipate what that would be.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
That's the missing link.
The next question comes from the line of David Driscoll representing Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I'd like you guys to discuss a little bit more about the Asian sales growth.
So 9% in the quarter and I'm curious if there was a difference between the shipment number and the takeaway number.
And then specifically last year in the first quarter I believe you had a significant effect from a buy-in ahead of the Hong Kong export restrictions that were -- that took effect I think in March.
So can you kind of tie together these various items and maybe explain that Asian constant currency sales growth a little bit more? Yes.
Maybe I'll start David and then Pete you can jump in if you want to comment further.
You're right.
I think the really -- the swing item here is really the prebuying we had against the export restrictions in the base quarter of 2013.
So within these Asian results we saw unusually low sales growth in the Hong Kong business as a consequence of this very very strong comparable that we were lapping in the first quarter David.
So I guess we're actually very pleased with the Asian constant dollar sales growth given that.
Research Division</strong> Would it then be -- is it then logical to say that that first quarter number of 9% it only gets better from here just given the changes in market share that you're seeing? Well I think on a -- we would expect that the Hong Kong number would certainly improve.
Now we had -- we did have strong performance in other markets and I don't want to get into giving quarterly guidance for -- on a segment basis.
But I think directionally your logic is right.
I don't know Pete if you want to add any comment? Yes.
I would just remind you David that on a full year basis we've said that Asia constant dollar sales were going to grow at rates similar to last year which was 10%.
And just to quantify the Hong Kong impact for you in Q1 it -- the very tough comparison versus the first quarter of last year probably reduced the growth rate by about 2 points.
The next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner representing Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Pete as you look [ph] at the children's program here in the U.S.
and you see the contribution of that build scale over time how are you thinking about the margin recovery potential in North America? I guess you're running at a low 20% now versus I guess mid- to high-20s a few years ago.
Just how would you frame the recovery potential over time? We've -- what we've said is when you -- if you look on a restated basis first of all because some of these numbers have changed a little bit and remember that North America/Europe EBIT margins went up anywhere from 30 to 50 basis points as a result of accounting change.
We were running at 22% EBIT margins last year.
We expect to make further progress on this I think in the full calendar year.
And while obviously the Enfagrow progress that we're making is having a positive impact remember we're making very heavy investments to support that growth at this point in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me -- can you see a positive mix shift over time from that children's category growing? I don't expect that the gross margin for North America/Europe is going to change significantly as a result of Enfagrow.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen representing William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about China.
Could you talk a little bit more about maybe growth rates by channel or maybe your focus by channel.
I think there's been a little bit more of an emphasis on your part in maybe baby stores or online sales where you've been underindexed historically? And if you can just provide a little more color on kind of the complexion of your growth by channel? And then second I think the government in China is currently going through a fairly rigorous relicensing process for manufacturers and I wonder if that had completed if there were any takeaways from that? Thanks Jon for the question.
I don't have much news to report on our channel emphasis.
I mean the truth is that all of these channels in China are important.
They're important to us and they're important to everybody else.
And we -- naturally as one does in any business we're quite focused on areas where we are underperforming and we've not hidden from you the fact that we are underindexing in baby stores and we are underindexing in online sales.
And as a consequence of that we are putting in place a raft of initiatives that we have confidence that will help us address some of those imbalances over time.
I do want to say that we're quite pleased with the progress we're making particularly within the baby store environment.
So that's probably about as much as I want to say about channel mix in China.
You're right that there is a -- I would say a broad reexamination going on of the entire sort of regulatory framework that pertains to supply chain operations in and out of China and we're very confident that -- in our future in that department.
We've had good interactions with the Chinese government.
I think they are -- satisfied if not impressed at least but I might even say they're impressed with our operations and the quality standards that we apply and the rigor with which we operate our facilities in China.
So I'm not -- I'm not terribly concerned about this at this point in time.
I think the future is bright for our China business.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll follow up on China.
One thing it seems to be developing is as some of your competitors I guess Wyeth -- sorry Danone and Abbott have had recall issues.
They've kind of introduced new brands or planning on introducing new brands into the market maybe with the older ones or the existing ones occupying more of a mass or lower price point and the new ones coming in at a premium.
I'm just kind of wondering Kasper if you and your team there do you think that that's good for the category with more brands and more tiers among the multinationals? Or is that problematic in some ways? I don't know whether it's good or bad for the category.
I feel very happy with our particular strategy.
I mean we are focusing very much on building the brand we have as opposed to creating new brand properties which will require separate support and management and introduce levels of complexity that I don't think that we are necessarily set up well to handle.
So we like to keep it simple and make sure that we can invest appropriately behind what we have and we'll continue linking back to some of the discussions we had earlier to regularly introduce new signs into our Enfa franchise in China when appropriate.
And we believe that we can continue to build the premium image of that brand while managing the sort of various constraints and whether it relates to pricing or manufacturing or anything else.
So I kind of like the business we have and we're trying to focus on that as opposed to getting distracted by what competitors are doing though it goes without saying that we are observing it closely.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma representing BMO Capital Markets.
Pete you mentioned that nondairy and other packaging costs will start to be a little less favorable for the next 3 quarters.
What about dairy costs? I mean you -- last quarter you talked about dairy costs being favorable in the back half given the increase in powder prices that you've seen in the first quarter.
Is there any change in your outlook for the dairy costs? Not really.
I mean with regard to dairy we have seen some reduction in prices in recent auctions.
We had anticipated in our guidance even 3 months ago that that was going to happen.
But remember what we're seeing right now wouldn't show up in our financial results in our cost of goods sold until very late this year or the first quarter of next year.
So dairy is proceeding for the most part as we expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess as a follow-up to that question your gross margin came in a lot better than certainly we and I think you had expected to and Pete I think you said your dairy costs are coming in as expected.
You gave a lot of color on what's happening second quarter third and fourth on why the margins will be lower.
But I guess I don't quite get why the upside in first quarter doesn't provide some upside to the year.
Maybe you could refresh me on that Pete? Sure.
Well first probably the most significant factor driving that was lower packaging and nondairy costs.
We had anticipated a lot of that maybe not as fully as we should have but -- and that is not going to stay with us on a full year basis.
We expect packaging and nondairy commodities to -- most of that benefit to disappear.
So to some extent that would really be a timing factor.
The other 2 items I would mention one was as Kasper indicated we saw about 4 points of our U.S.
-- of our North America/Europe growth and 1 full point of the company's sales growth which we feel was timing related in the United States.
And so the -- and that tends to be higher margin business.
That's going to reverse.
And the other thing that I mentioned was the timing of WIC accruals in the U.S.
And every dollar of rebate that you have falls directly through to your gross margin dollars.
And those numbers can really bump around from quarter-to-quarter.
They tend to average out over time for the full year and we did see a favorable timing impact from WIC accruals in Q1.
Inc.</strong> Can you quantify about how much that was in Q1 for the WIC? The WIC was probably for the company as a whole was about 60 basis points.
Your next question comes from the line of Warren Ackerman representing Societe Generale.
This is Warren Ackerman here from Soc Gen.
This is a smaller question.
This is a question on Europe.
I know it's quite small for you guys.
But are you able to comment on how trading is going in Russia or in Poland.
I know that your competitors have been talking about quite a sharp downturn in Russia on the macro.
Are you able to maybe kind of just stretch that out for us? Warren thanks for the question.
I will refrain from making much comment on Russia because I think -- I would be misleading you.
Our business in Russia is very small as you know.
And therefore I'm not sure that you can deduce anything from our particular trends and apply them to sort of a macro view of Russia.
But I'm very pleased with the progress we are making in Poland.
So the Polish business we are quite aggressively trying to build but both are sort of allergy-focused Nutramigen business which we have across Western Europe as well as building our presence in the routine infant formula segment.
And we're making really good progress in Poland both with building market share within the pharmacy channel where we have been strong and with getting to a level of critical mass where we can sustain distribution into the food retail channel.
So we're seeing a number of key accounts well some of the bigger European key accounts come to us and ask us to start selling into them.
So I'm very encouraged by Poland.
Would you be able to give us a number for the organic growth in Europe overall for the quarter just so that we can see where Europe is and kind of back out North America a bit more precisely? Why that's why we combine the segments.
But I've said that the U.S.
business was a strong driver of overall segment performance and maybe I'll just leave it at that.
Operator I think we have time for one more call.
Your final question comes from the line of Diane Geissler representing CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to ask 2 questions if that's all right.
On the China business you talked about market share gains both year-over-year and sequentially.
I was wondering if you could comment on whether or not you see that primarily as a result of the some of the product recalls that some of your competitors had last fall or if you're also seeing consolidation in the category that you're taking advantage of? And then my second question is related to the growing up milk business in the U.S.
Is there provision within WIC to use the vouchers on the growing up milks? And also do your competitors have growing up milks on the market right now or is this an instance of if you build the category you will basically own it? Diane thanks for the question.
Firstly it's very very hard in not only in China but in any kind of market situation to accurately assess exactly where your share gains are coming from.
So I won't attempt to break down what amount of -- what proportion of our increase is coming from the impact of competitors' sort of difficulties last year.
I can simply say that we are happy that we are making progress.
On your second question we're not seeing any impact of sort of overall consolidation in China as yet.
So that certainly I can say hasn't had any impact.
It's not that any brands have disappeared from the marketplace over the last quarter in China.
So the market is in that sense as fragmented as ever.
It's simply that shares are shifting around between brands.
And giving you a bit of grace on the second question there are no WIC rebates associated with our growing up milks business.
And that space is still relatively uncluttered though our competitors in the U.S.
certainly have representation in the space as well.
Thanks.
Operator I think we are closing the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Second Quarter and First Half 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Danielle and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Danielle and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's second-quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in our morning's earnings release posted on the Investor section of our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent dates.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us on this call.
I’ll highlight the overall operating performance for the second quarter of 2014 before discussing each of our segments and our updated earnings guidance.
Pete will then follow and provide a few additional details on our financial performance and finally I’ll wrap up with some comments before we take questions.
Turning now to the second quarter the quarter unfolded largely as we expected with strong revenue growth and EPS growth impacted by foreign exchange higher commodity costs and significantly higher advertising and promotion spending associated with key marketing initiatives.
As you likely read in this morning’s press release sales grew by 10% on a constant dollar basis.
Pricing gains in the high inflation environments of Argentina and Venezuela contributed 1 percentage point of growth within the quarter.
We saw double-digit growth for the company in total within Asia and as a whole and within China/Hong Kong.
Encouragingly we again saw growth in our North America/Europe segment driven by stronger pricing market share gains in North America infant formula and continued growth in our children’s business.
Overall volume growth was strong at 5%.
Pricing and productivity helped partially offset the impact of higher dairy costs.
Innovation is a fundamental driver of growth for us and within the second quarter we invested in marketing initiatives that included the launch of our low glycemic index children’s reformulation in several additional markets in Asia.
This introduction was highlighted with new packaging graphics.
We also continued to invest to generate awareness and trial for our children’s products in the U.S.
Important clinical research was published in the May edition of Pediatrics the official journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
The study which was completed in China compared an Enfagrow formulation containing DHA our blend of prebiotics and beta-glucan to cow’s milk and demonstrated as expected that our Enfagrow formulation resulted in fewer episodes of acute respiratory infections.
As we had expected our non-GAAP gross margin of 61.8% was down by 180 basis points versus the first quarter.
The impact of higher dairy costs became evident through the quarter.
Pete will provide further details in a moment.
Advertising and promotional spending of $175 million in the quarter was at a record level.
Spending once again approached 16% of sales and was up 170 basis points sequentially from the first quarter.
Significant variation in the level of demand creation spend reflects timing of marketing initiatives and is entirely consistent with patterns we have seen in prior years.
Despite lower gross margin and increased investment in growth non-GAAP earnings per share increased slightly from prior year’s quarter to $0.88 per share.
This was in line with our expectation.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments starting with Asia.
In the second quarter revenue in our Asia business grew 11% on a constant dollar basis over prior-year quarter; 6% came from volume gains and 5% from improved pricing.
We’re pleased that our China/Hong Kong business continued to grow double digits in constant dollars and it remains an important driver of the segment’s growth.
I know many of you are very focused on developments in China and the ongoing changes in the regulatory environment there.
I’m pleased to report that in the first half of this year our manufacturing licenses were renewed for both our local plant in Guangzhou and key base of supply sites outside of China.
I want to be clear that we support the government’s initiative to strengthen supervision over quality and safety of pediatric nutrition and we are fully committed to meet future requirements as they occur.
I also want to mention that we will begin production at our Singapore facility in the third quarter.
We achieved our originally planned timeline and the construction project came in slightly below budget.
In the balance of Asia we again saw solid sales growth.
Volume growth accelerated in markets where we had recently invested in innovation of brand renewal.
We are pleased with the recent market share gains especially in Thailand and Malaysia.
Across the region price increases and gains in productivity have been critical to mitigating some of the impact of rising dairy costs.
Gross margin was pressured by start-up expenses in our Singapore plant as well as the impact of these rising dairy costs.
Notwithstanding these challenges we continue to raise our investment in demand generation.
Within the quarter the region’s EBIT increased to $196 million from $192 million thanks to higher sales and despite the lower gross margin.
I turn now to Latin America.
Constant dollar sales grew 14% in the second quarter; 6% from volume and 8% from pricing.
Venezuela and Argentina accounted for most of the price gains.
Volume growth was broad based and stood at 9% outside of these two markets.
Foreign exchange adversely impacted dollar-denominated growth in the region by 13%.
Constant dollar revenue growth in the quarter at 14% was somewhat lower than the 21% growth we saw in the first quarter.
Several factors contributed to our lower growth rate in the quarter.
As stated in our earnings call in April we decided to manage our Venezuela financial exposure conservatively by ensuring shipments to reflect both fewer in-market consumption and the availability of U.S.
dollars to pay for matching product imports.
Reported sales in Venezuela consequently fell noticeably versus the prior year’s quarter due to lower volume and a much weakened bolivar.
In Peru our volume growth was negatively affected by the temporary and disruptive promotional strategy of a certain retailer while in Mexico our largest market in Latin America we saw solid performance and sequential improvement versus the first quarter.
In Brazil we continued to grow market share of infant formula despite a challenging economic environment that has somewhat impacted growth in our children’s business there.
In the second quarter EBIT Latin America grew by 12% in dollar terms over prior year’s quarter despite slightly lower gross margins and an unfavorable foreign exchange environment in Venezuela and Argentina.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
Revenue in our North America/Europe segment grew 4% and we achieved market leadership in U.S.
infant formula for the first time in several years.
This reflects our general progress as we over several years now and across two generations of leadership have continued to invest in innovation and marketing despite a challenging market condition.
Exemplifying this we also continued to invest in our toddler milk initiative and we continued to make progress in the second quarter.
In our last conference call we mentioned that there were a few timing factors that boosted first quarter sales growth namely lower weak accruals and U.S.
retailer inventory adjustments.
These factors reversed as expected in the latest quarter.
Wrapping up my remarks on this segment North America/Europe EBIT was down 9% in the second quarter due to phasing of demand creation investments and the timing impact of weak accruals.
Looking at year-to-date EBIT to eliminate any noise from timing you’ll note that our North America EBIT margin of 21.7% is similar to that of the first half of 2013.
Let me now summarize our 2014 full-year outlook for the total company.
This morning we revised our guidance for revenue growth and we now expect constant dollar revenue growth of not less than 9% for the full year up from the approximately 8% on which our prior guidance was based.
The improved outlook for sales growth comes mainly from North America.
Based on strong year-to-date results we are raising our North America/Europe constant dollar sales guidance and now anticipate growth in the mid-single digits for the full year.
For Asia let me note that quarterly sales comparisons will get tougher in the third quarter.
Competitors in China experienced supply disruptions in the third quarter of 2013 and a benefit accrued to us as a result.
We remain confident however in our long-term growth prospects in China.
While there will be puts and takes amongst markets our full-year outlook for Asia remains unchanged at this time with constant dollar sales growth expected at rate similar to prior year.
In addition in Latin America we expect to deliver strong double-digit constant dollar growth for the full year although reported dollar sales growth will be significantly offset by weaker currencies.
Talking now again about our global outlook.
Based on current exchange rates we now expect currency headwinds to reduce reported dollar sales by 5% for the full year.
On a full-year basis we expect advertising and promotion to run about 15% of sales in line with the 14.8% seen in the first half of the year.
Reflective of these regional trends we revised our expectations for non-GAAP earnings per share to between $3.65 and $3.72 per share compared to the $3.60 to $3.72 per share in our last conference call.
This reflects increased confidence in our revenue outlook while recognizing a challenging currency environment.
I’ll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide a little more texture on our financials.
Following Pete’s section I’ll return with some wrap up comments before we open the lines to questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Kasper already addressed sales growth so I’ll start my remark on foreign exchange then provide some additional detail on earnings with a focus on trends moving into the second half and wrap up with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
You recall that in the first quarter we moved to mark-to-market accounting for our pension plans.
We saw an unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment in the net value of our pension liability in the second quarter.
This is treated as a specified item and excluded from our non-GAAP earnings.
In addition please note that the mark-to-market pension change shows up in our corporate/other financial data and does not affect earnings or margins for our geographic segments.
Several expense categories including cost of goods sold are impacted by the pension adjustment.
As a result we have provided the bridge from our GAAP to non-GAAP earnings by expense category for our specified items.
The rest of my comments will be focused entirely on our non-GAAP numbers.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 10% in the second quarter.
Foreign exchange reduced sales growth by 5% resulting in reported sales growth of 5%.
Relative to the prior year quarter the most significant weakening of local currencies continued to be seen in Latin America.
In Venezuela you may recall we adopted the higher SICAD I exchange rate for use in our financials at the end of February.
Our second quarter sales therefore reflected a full impact of the devaluation.
Pressure on the Argentine peso was also seen.
Asia was not immune to the strengthening dollar with foreign exchange reducing reported sales by 3% the toughest quarterly comparison we’ve faced since our IPO.
The Chinese renminbi and the Indonesian rupiah both weakened on average during the second quarter versus our earlier expectations.
On a full-year basis we now expect that foreign exchange will reduce sales for the company by about 5% as compared to 4% in our prior guidance.
We currently expect that currency impact will reduce earnings by about $0.03 versus our earlier guidance based on current exchange rates.
Finally let me point out that there is some risk of a further devaluation in Venezuela late in the year.
The government has multiple exchange rates in use from 6.3 bolivars all the way up to 50 bolivars to the dollar.
Reports have started to circulate that the government might seek to converge to a rate above the June month-end SICAD I rate of 10.6.
Turning to profits in the second quarter non-GAAP gross margin was 61.8% down 180 basis points from 63.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
This was expected and largely reflected the impact of higher commodity costs with a smaller negative effect coming from the timing and the level of weak accruals as well as the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Please note that the higher commodity prices reflected in the cost of goods sold for the second quarter relative to the first quarter included not only higher dairy costs but also increased costs for packaging cocoa and some other commodities as well.
Higher pricing and productivity initiatives were partial offsets.
On a full-year basis we expect gross margins to come in slightly above 62%.
Gross margins in the second half will therefore be at or slightly below the 61.8% reported in the second quarter.
We expect that gross margins will bottom out in the third quarter at a level slightly below 61.8% before recovering a bit in the fourth quarter.
The dip in gross margins in the third quarter is largely from higher start-up costs for the Singapore spray dryer.
The facility will begin commercial production in August.
We continue to expect that the full-year impact on earnings in 2014 is about $0.10 per share.
We had $0.02 in each of the first and second quarters related to pre-production start-up costs.
The residual $0.06 will be spread about equally across the remaining two quarters and is primarily related to the impact of low capacity utilization.
The strong dairy headwinds which were evident in the second quarter affected all three segments with the most pronounced impact being in Asia.
Higher dairy costs will continue through the second half of the year but there will be a slight moderation in dairy costs as reflected in our cost of goods sold during the fourth quarter based on trends in spot prices seen early in the year.
In the last month or two we have seen steeper declines in spot dairy prices.
If this is sustained it creates a bit of a gross margin tailwind as we move into next year.
At this early day however it would be premature to count on that trend continuing throughout 2015.
In addition the cost of innovation and additional demand creation investments to fuel growth could partially offset any benefit that might materialize.
As a percentage of sales our operating expenses were generally in line with the prior-year quarter.
Sequentially the $20 million increase in dollar spending in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter was expected.
Advertising and promotion spending which stood at a record level of $175 million in the quarter accounts for almost all of the increase.
Please note that on a full-year basis we continue to anticipate operating expenses slightly below 38.5% of sales.
That spending rate is above the 37.8% in the first half.
As a result spending measured on a percentage of sales basis would be higher than the full-year average in the second half.
Based on the gross margin and operating expense assumptions I just detailed EBIT margins should approach 24% for the full year consistent with our performance in all years from 2010 onwards.
That’s excellent performance in light of the dairy headwinds and stronger U.S.
dollar we faced in 2014 both of which are driving lower margins.
Turning to taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 23.8% in the second quarter and 24.8% on a year-to-date basis.
On a full-year basis we expect that our ETR will be near 24%.
Moving on to a discussion of our balance sheet and cash flow you’ll note we had a busy quarter on the financing front.
Our cash balance stood at just under $1.6 billion at the end of June up from $1.1 billion in March.
That’s the result of $500 million in new 30-year debt due in 2044 that we issued in the second quarter.
We issued the new bonds as part of our refinancing plan for $500 million in bonds that are due in November of this year.
Given the rising interest rate environment seen in the second half of last year we had entered into a plain vanilla interest rate swap early in the fourth quarter of 2013 to lock in rates.
Since interest rates continued to rise during the remainder of 2013 the hedge had a net positive value of about $20 million at year-end.
With a relatively steep drop in interest rates seen in 2014 on weakening economic news here in the U.S.
and abroad the value of that hedge fell to a net liability position of $45 million by the time we unwound the swap in connection with the new debt offering.
That $45 million was a one-time cash outflow in the second quarter but for accounting purposes it is amortized over the 30-year life of the new bonds.
There was very strong demand for our bonds and as a result we were able to secure very long-term financing at an attractive all-in rate of 4.9% including the amortization of the interest rate hedge.
I should mention that the credit spreads we paid over treasuries were quite attractive and reflected the earlier credit upgrade we received from S&amp;P to BBB+.
We have called the November 2014 bonds and will retire those in mid-August about 2.5 months before their final maturity.
This action will bring our cash balance down by about $500 million.
Interest expense in the second quarter stood at a bit over $15 million up $3 million from the first quarter as we carried both the 2044 and 2014 notes for half the quarter.
You should expect to see interest expense grow to about $18 million in the third quarter as we will have an early call premium on the 2014 notes.
Please note that there is no real economic penalty for the early retirement.
Under the terms of these existing bonds this premium in effect reflects the net present value of those 2.5 months of interests basically an acceleration of the future interest recognition.
Fourth quarter interest expense will be about $14 million and will reflect a full and clean quarter under our new debt structure.
For the full-year 2014 interest expense is expected to be about $60 million.
This is slightly higher than prior guidance as we moved a bit earlier with the new bond issuance given favorable trends in the market.
I also want to point out that we amended our revolving credit agreement during the second quarter extending its term from 2016 to 2019 increasing the commitment level to $750 million and reducing both annual fees and the spreads paid on any drawdown.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was about $210 million after consuming $95 million in cash for capital spending in the first half of 2014.
Working capital increased to support the growth of the business and particularly inventory as we prepare to bring our Singapore spray dryer online.
One final point on cash flow capital spending for the full-year is expected to remain unchanged at $180 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense should be about $90 million.
To summarize our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.72 per share on at least 9% constant dollar sales growth.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by about 5% assuming currencies remain at their current level bringing reported sales growth to at least 4%.
With that I’ll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
Let me just provide some summary comments before we open the lines for questions.
In summary we’re pleased with our continued momentum in our earnings trajectory.
We knew from the beginning of the year our gross margins would come under pressure from rising dairy costs and certain once-off expenses.
I’m pleased with the work done throughout our organization to substantially mitigate impact on earnings through productivity and improved pricing.
But I’m equally proud that we again this quarter demonstrated our commitment to invest aggressively in our future.
Investment in demand creation and innovation grow substantially in the quarter helping increase our confidence in a stronger outlook for annual revenue growth.
Finally I want to remind you all that we are still only halfway through the year much can still happen but the change to our revenue and earnings guidance reflects our increasing confidence in the outlook for the year.
I’ll now hand the call back to Danielle our operator who will open the lines for questions.
I have a question just related to China/Hong Kong I guess over the last few weeks we feel that if you increase or from context there just suggesting that maybe the market had slowed somewhat sequentially in May and then again potentially in June and that may be there been a little bit of heightened price competition there.
So can you just kind of talk about just situationally how the market has evolved over the course of the quarter and if there’s anything that’s really meaningfully changed in terms of the market environment there? Thank you.
Bryan thanks for the question.
And I think the first thing I would say is and I think I mentioned it before to you all on this call that it is very very hard to read the China market at the moment because there is an enormous amount of channel fragmentation taking place in China.
So getting an accurate read on what’s happening in the total market and to underlying consumption is very tough indeed so we tend to focus on our own business and what we are seeing and though we recognize that we have opportunities to improve our presence in certain channels as we’ve talked before we remain satisfied with the plans we have and with the outlook for the full year.
A quick question on Venezuela and then maybe a follow-up on China.
When you entered the year Pete and Kasper I think you had a pretty conservative view as to what Venezuela could do especially considering the tough comps on volume and certainly those tough comps came in today.
But I was wondering are you shipping more volume in than you expected? And you’re not getting as much price as you may need but are you getting more pricing than you thought to what extent is that helping your guidance or maybe not at all? And then just a follow-up on China I mean I think it’s very hard for us sitting here to read the China market are you having difficulty reading the China market? Is that what’s implied by your statement? And because of all these channel shifts and how is that influencing your ability to do business? Bob this is Pete.
With regard to Venezuela I think I had mentioned in our last call that we were expecting $0.04 to $0.05 per share in contribution in EPS from Venezuela in total this year.
That really hasn’t changed any significantly at this point in time.
Volume has really kind of uncovered -- unfolded as we expected in the second quarter.
Pricing no big changes either.
The only thing I would point out is that our plans there were as Kasper said we’re operating the business conservatively but we want to get cash for our product.
And the good news is that we’re seeing better payments from the government in the quarter than maybe what we had expected earlier.
If that continues that might allow us to increase volumes at some future point but we don’t anticipate at this point in time that’s the case.
Let me go back over to the China situation.
Certainly it is as I said earlier it’s very challenging to read the China market because there is so much fragmentation of channels some of which are measured some of which are not measured and a lot of them trade with each other.
So there is the risk of double accounting when one looks at that.
So what we tend to do is we tend to focus on the numbers we have the greatest metrics we have the greatest amount of confidence in which are the uptake numbers that we can read ourselves as reflected in distributor sales and retailer sales.
And we remain confident and satisfied with the trend we are seeing in those metrics.
Picking up where Rob left off based on the metrics you kind of rate in China what is your beat on market growth rate right now for the category? And then my other question relates to the innovation the low glycemic product Can you elaborate a little bit more on some of the markets you’ve rolled that out to exactly when you rolled it out to? And also does this enable you to roll it out at a slightly higher price point to hopefully cover a little more of that inflationary pressure that you’re feeling today? We haven’t really changed our view of China significantly.
As you remember I think if we go back about a year you’re highlighting to us the fact that we thought the market was growing significantly slower than some of our competitors thought.
And I guess as a consequence of that perhaps we’ve not really changed our outlook for the market very significantly.
We still believe that we’ll be looking at sort of a mid-single digit volume growth amplified by some growth in pricing.
At the moment that growth in pricing is arguably more driven by segment shifts than is driven by price increases but we expect that price increases will return to the China market at some time in the not-so-distant future.
With regards to your question regarding where we rolled out our Enfagrow reformulation to-date we’ve rolled it out in Thailand Vietnam and Singapore.
Great.
Operator can we go on to the next call? I guess I realize Kasper your comments about we’re only halfway through 2014 so we don’t want to get too ahead of ourselves.
But just I guess Pete to the extent that you’ve got a number of one-time let’s say items this year maybe I guess depending on how you measure it $0.06 to $0.10 on the Singapore facility you had a couple of pennies from the Venezuela devaluation balance sheet re-measurement just called out some additional costs on the bond call option or call premium and you mentioned some possible tailwind from dairy costs.
So when you’re at our conference in Paris you couldn’t have emphasized more the desire to spend back into the business but it just seems that with some of these items 2014 versus ’15 there is a lot that is swinging let’s say unusually positive at this point.
Maybe Kasper or Pete you could kind of frame a little bit as to how we think about it?  I think the biggest potential upside that could exist is dairy.
And if you listened to what I mentioned we have seen a drop in dairy prices.
The biggest drops really have been seen in the New Zealand market roughly 20% and keep in mind that accounts for less than 40% of our total dairy purchases it’s been much smaller elsewhere.
That’s where we’ve seen it but it’s only July and while we’ll enter the first quarter with lower dairy we think it’s premature to sit there and count on that for the full year at this point.
So you could do your own math around what that could be but I think your points on interest expense is a good one the run rate will be something closer to $50 million a year versus the $60 million that we had -- that we’ll have this year.
And another point I would make here when we’ve talked about this in the past has been the Singapore start-up costs are $0.10 this year that’s not going away in its entirety next year.
We still will have lower plant utilization in 2015 than our target.
It should improve as you move through the year but we expect that we’re only going to eliminate maybe half of that $0.10 in next year.
Other than that we’re not giving guidance for 2015 at this point and as we get closer to the end of the year we’ll probably be in a better position to address that.
Eric I just want to add to that as I did in the conference in Paris that we still believe that our ability to create long-term shareholder value is intimately linked to our ability to sustain attractive revenue growth over time and therefore we will continue to prioritize investment in meaningful demand generating activity where we can.
And to the extent that we have any tailwinds when we get to next year we will be looking for opportunities to use at least a sizeable proportion of that to underpin the future growth prospects.
And Kasper based on last year’s analyst meeting I think you kind of emphasized the company’s capability in R&amp;D and clinical-backed studies et cetera do you see that 2015 is a greater year for new product introductions and could that be one driver of higher A&amp;P spending? Well I mean I think we always have the ability to either bring forward certain projects or perhaps more easily expand the number of countries in which we introduce certain initiatives.
So that’s a process a planning process that we generally finalize through the remainder of this year and we’ll obviously do that in the context of our cost structure.
And I don’t know that I want to – made any comment beyond what I’ve said before that are sort of our long-term commitment is that we will grow earnings at or above the rate of revenue growth and I don’t know that I want to expand beyond that.
I just wanted to follow-up on the margin expansion in Latin America during the quarter.
Presumably some of this just the allocation of demand generation spend and it’s skewed towards North America and toward Asia.
I think I was just surprised Pete the margins up this sharply when you are continuing to invest in the region and you’re pricing through quite a bit of inflation.
Is this just the case or we should get used to some volatility in quarterly margins and not overthink it or are there specific factors you point out and can you give us any guidance on how you’re thinking about Latin America margins for the balance of the year? Your point Matt about not – you expect to see volatility in quarterly margins particularly in this market is spot on.
The only thing I would add is we have always said that the timing of when we’re going to invest can vary year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter.
That’s certainly the case this year.
The only thing I would point out and we had expectations on a full-year basis that we would get paid a certain level of cash by the government for the product – our access to dollars at that favorable rate of 6.3 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar we went -- the way we handle our accounting is we are using the SICAD I rate of roughly 11 to translate our local currency results into U.S.
dollars.
Then when we do get access to U.S.
dollar that 6.3 rate for product imports we recognized a gain on that and that’s very very very lumpy.
And we did get some dollars I think as I mentioned earlier for product imports in the quarter so that went a farther way through to help – it benefited EBIT margins in the quarter.
Okay.
And for the full year do you -- is it fair to say I guess you would expect similar to the -- total company segment operating margins to be similar to last year or any particular skew there? I would count on something probably close to what we had in 2013.
I should say that the 23.8% EBIT margin we had in the second quarter was very close to 24% we saw for the full year in ‘13 and it’s going to be a matter of growth versus foreign exchange that’s going to drive the bottom line margin for the full year but something consistent with last year 23% to 24% range is probably legit.
Two questions.
First one is for Kasper second one is for Pete.
Kasper the six-month numbers for the North American segment I mean they look pretty terrific revenues up 7% on a constant currency basis.
I understand pretty clearly that the second quarter was impacted by the timing issues the shift between 1Q and 2Q.
But I’d really like you to just spend a few minutes and talk about the detail on what’s driving the performance between infant and then the new launch in child? And then really can you just expand on the opportunity here I mean this is a revenue performance we haven’t seen in a long time from this segment and I don’t -- I maybe want to just hear from you how optimistic we should be? Well I mean clearly we are attributing the improved revenue guidance to the performance of the North America segment David so like you I’m encouraged by what we’re seeing and we do believe that we are perhaps seeing some improvement or beginning to see some small improvement in the underlying environment that we’re operating in.
But I think really most of the improved performance in the first half of the year has come from better execution of our plan which -- I’m obviously pleased with that.
So I don’t know what I can expand on – I don’t know Pete you want to add anything on that? Yeah.
I think it’s a combination of things it’s increased share on infant formula it’s the success.
Remember we put a lot of money in the fourth quarter of last year into Enfagrow we saw great growth particularly in the fourth quarter.
So we’re lapping against some easier comparisons there.
If we said mid-single digit annual guidance we’re probably for the segment we’re running about 6% to 7% rate the comparisons are going to get tough particularly in the fourth quarter of this year.
But it’s really a combination of all those.
To some extent we also gained the WIC contract in Florida that we started shipping in on that I think in the month of February.
So that helps a bit too.
And when you’re filling the distribution channel to some extent that isn’t necessarily going to continue so that’s why we’re seeing mid-single digits versus what we’ve seen in the first half.
Pete could I just sneak one more in.
Just wanted to ask you for your updated thoughts on share repurchase and the balance sheet quality we’ve been talking for a bunch of quarters here and I think you had some hope that M&amp;A might be a part of the puzzle here in 2014 what’s your latest thoughts here on M&amp;A opportunities and/or share repurchase? I think it’s very difficult to sit back and predict when and if any deals come through.
We try to be out there buying in the marketplace we did buy some shares.
It’s a bit of a challenge too we tend to do it through 10b-5 plans and we saw very good run-up in the stock price of the company over the last three quarters and that ended up limiting how much we bought but re-evaluate that on a regular basis and I think we’re committed to return cash to shareholders through share repurchases over time but we want to make sure that we have -- we save some of our capital if you will and debt capacity for deals.
A quick clarification.
And my question just wanted to confirm Pete I think you said mid-single digits for North America/Europe.
I think prior guidance was low to mid-single digits if I’m not incorrect can you just confirm that was an actual change or --? That is a change and you are absolutely right.
Okay.
And then going back to dairy how comfortable are you later this year and into next year in some of your more competitive geographies that you’ll be I guess able to hold on to a lot of your pricing when these lower costs start to flow through right.
It hasn’t really been an issue in the past so I’m not overly concerned.
I just – it’s a more competitive environment in some areas than we’ve seen in the past some of your peers are getting more eager than usual to regain share.
So I just wanted to kind of pick your brain on that a little bit? Historically we have been able to maintain pricing in a lower commodity price environment.
There are some very competitive markets right now too and people have been mentioning China to some extent.
I would say the biggest thing for us with regard to pricing has been and will always be innovation and the one thing I think I mentioned in my remarks too is that innovation has costs and when we bring new product to market you could see a higher cost base as a result of that.
I think what dairy gives us is the ability to use some other offsets so that we don’t necessarily have to price to a higher level over the medium term.
I just add to that I think in all the time that I’ve been working in and around this industry I’ve never really seen anybody gain from lowering prices or via -- even in medium-term periods.
And certainly our strategy generally [splinters] [ph] on investing in innovation and increasing the investment in demand generation.
I think those are the things that help grow the markets and therefore really increase the opportunity for everybody and certainly that’s the way that we intend to continue competing going forward.
Pete just in terms of Avex’s recent agreement with Fonterra we’ve seen that plus a few of the local China manufacturers having made some investments in land in Australia to really go after regional milk safety.
So with that in mind how does Mead approach the situation? Is this something that you’d consider in terms of investment do you feel [forced] [ph] to respond in a competitive perspective just why don’t if you can maybe through your supply position relative to your competitors how the local China demands are evolving? It’s Kasper and I think I’ll take that question.
There are a lot of different supply chain models being utilized in industry and I’m quite sure that several different variations of supply chain models can be made to work.
Obviously the dairy cooperatives tend to be much more vertically integrated than a company like ourselves.
We believe that we have the capabilities needed to adapt to any regulatory changes that might force any evolution on our supply chain.
Obviously we are doing a lot of studies as you might imagine and a lot of scenario planning to contemplate how we would respond to regulatory changes particularly in China.
And really our key focus is really to ensure that whatever supply chain construction we put in place is best able to ensure that we deliver the kind of quality and safety of products that we’ve been able to do over many years now.
Pete a quick question for you and then for Kasper.
Can you extend your dairy coverage in this environment? Traditionally you said seven to nine months are you able to extend that given the favorable environment that we face are certain? It’s pretty difficult to do that just because hedging markets really are not very well developed at this point in time.
They might be better developed five years from now but it’s a challenge now.
And then Kasper you talked about recently about opening up the specialty and solutions market in China can you just talk about the potential size of this segment growth profile and what is the competitive dynamic at this point? The way we look at that market is that it’s small in its initial stage largely because diagnostic skills in China are pretty underdeveloped not surprisingly because you haven’t really had products that allowed you to treat these various metabolic disorders.
Given the size of the population and the inevitable evolution of the China healthcare system we obviously believe that it’s an important segment for the longer-term profile and growth of the company but it’s more of a longer-term initiative than it is a near-term growth initiative.
Operator we have time for one more call.
I have a two-part question so I think you indicated that you did see pricing in your Asia segment China is a big piece of that so I’m assuming that you took pricing in China in the second quarter but if you could comment? And then I had a question about the pediatric journal article that you mentioned in terms of that study being performed in China.
I’m assuming that that means you can make the lower respiratory infection claim on the China label now versus cow’s milk.
And I just -- I’m wondering how long between the time the innovation is tested between that time and the time you could see product in the market? And is that something that could be the basis of a super-premium line or would you look to move that innovation into the core line that you currently have offered in China? Thank you.
Diane thanks for the question.
As you know we try not to comment on sort of forward-looking plans and initiatives.
So let me just talk more generally about the study.
The study would indeed allow some promotional activity behind our Enfagrow formulation in China however I want to distinguish between that and the on-label claims which would I think be very difficult.
Typically in most countries across the world if you want to make claims of this nature on-label you generally have to register products in a completely different category which is not beneficial it generally attracts different duty structure et cetera et cetera and we don’t intend to do that.
So I think we would envisage deploying these claims as part of our general promotional strategy but unlikely that you’re going to see them in exactly this [from unlabelled] [ph].
The only thing I would add is that with regard to pricing too we didn’t say that we got pricing in China in the quarter.
Most of the pricing for Asia came out of -- the Asia segment came out of South Asia.
Operator this will now close our second quarter earnings call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Third Quarter and Year-to-Date 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kevin and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in this morning's earnings release posted on the Investors section of our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Thank you for joining us on our call this morning.
I'll highlight the overall operating performance in the third quarter of 2014 and discuss our performance in each of our reporting segments.
Following that Pete will then provide additional details on our financial performance.
And finally before we take your questions I'll supply some summary remarks that will include a reiteration of our previously issued guidance.
Turning now to our performance in the third quarter of 2014.
As you likely read in this morning's press release sales within the quarter grew 7% on a constant dollar basis versus prior year quarter.
At a recent investor conference I spoke about our portfolio and the benefit of our geographic diversity.
Our third quarter performance illustrates this.
With strong results in our North America/Europe segment and sound performance in Latin America we were able to deliver solid revenue growth despite progress in Asia being adversely affected by transitory issues in China.
The diversity of our global portfolio gives us great resilience as we look at our company's performance over time.
I'll address Asia performance in more detail in a moment.
In the latest quarter we continued the introduction of a new and improved formulation and packaging bundle for our Enfa franchise.
And in September we formally opened a new research and manufacturing campus built in Singapore to support future growth in the Asia region.
This investment which includes our first company-owned spray dryer in Asia as well as our newest Pediatric Nutrition Institute represents the single-largest capital project in the company's 100-plus-year history.
Thanks to the hard work of many people across the organization this project was completed on time and below budget.
We've now opened 4 Pediatric Nutrition Institutes in 4 years.
This demonstrates our global commitment to continuous investment in capability building.
Turning back to our financial results.
Our non-GAAP gross margin as expected fell in the third quarter.
It came in at 60.2%.
The impact of a non-favorable foreign exchange environment higher dairy input costs and start-up costs of the new Singapore plant were key drivers.
Importantly as mentioned in our previous earnings call we expect the third quarter to represent the lowest point for gross margin this year.
And it follows we expect to see some sequential improvement in the fourth quarter and the benefit of lower dairy cost begins to impact our cost of goods.
We continued our strategy of strong investment in demand creation and innovation within the quarter.
Investment in advertising and promotion stood at a healthy 14.6% of revenue.
It was reflective of the timing of new product introductions and marketing initiatives.
Non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.93 was in line with the prior year's quarter.
Sales growth and a $0.05 per share nonrecurring tax benefit helped offset gross margin headwinds.
Let me comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments starting with Asia.
Sales growth in our China business adversely affected the Asia region's results.
China was impacted by 3 factors.
Firstly GDP growth in China appears to be moderating.
This may well be temporary and similar to what we have seen in certain quarters in years past.
Nevertheless we are currently seeing growth come into line with that of many other Asian markets.
Secondly in preparation for the introduction of new improved formulations of our Enfamil franchise and a new packaging design we worked to reduce system inventory through the quarter.
This was done to help clear the way for new product to be introduced in October.
As a result our sales to distributors were below retail offtake within the quarter.
Finally our base for comparison in the third quarter of 2013 was somewhat artificially strong due to the impact of a recall by several competitors.
Accounting for these factors at 3% above the prior year quarter constant dollar revenue growth was naturally below our year-to-date growth rate of 8%.
Pricing benefits in the quarter drove 5% growth but due to the China-specific factors just mentioned was offset by slightly lower volumes.
Consequently EBIT for Asia was $186 million in the third quarter compared to $200 million last year.
Higher dairy costs and increased Singapore start-up expenses more than offset the benefit from higher sales.
We increased prices in Hong Kong in the quarter to bring them closer to mainland China prices.
We also made a strategic decision in light of declining dairy prices and a more challenging economic environment to leave prices in mainland China untouched.
Over time however we are confident we will be able to adjust pricing in the mainland to reflect our investment in innovation and improved formulations.
We are continually working closely with the government to ensure we're able to recover these investments over time.
Looking forward we continue to pursue investments in capacity that will allow us to meet our evolving portfolio needs in China.
The China market is developing very fast with new channels and consumer segments emerging rapidly.
As we adjust to this new normal we are confident we can build on our strong base and continue our history of strong growth in the world's largest market.
In the balance of Asia we saw solid sales growth including in our 2 largest markets of Thailand and the Philippines.
Growth was driven by product innovation and stronger pricing.
As mentioned earlier on a year-to-date basis constant dollar sales growth in Asia was 8% for the first 9 months of 2014.
For the full year we expect constant dollar sales growth in the region to remain in the high-single digits.
Turning now to Latin America.
Constant dollar revenue grew 14% in the third quarter 4% from volume and 10% from pricing.
Adjusting for unfavorable foreign exchange reported revenue growth was 1% consistent with our performance in the prior quarter.
Mexico continued to deliver solid growth in both our Enfa franchise and in our specialty and solutions business.
In Colombia we continued to build market share rapidly.
We've consolidated our lead in the premium segment and are now a close #2 in the overall market.
The market is currently characterized by high levels of parallel imports.
Product is being smuggled across the border from neighboring Venezuela where the government keeps consumer prices artificially low by its supportive exchange rate system.
Consequently our results do not fully reflect the underlying strength of our Colombian business.
We are however confident this situation will self-correct over time.
In Peru we made significant progress towards resolving a dispute with a leading retailer.
Consequently we now expect more stable performance from that important market.
And in Brazil we are experiencing a tougher economic environment.
Nonetheless we continue to grow the market share of our premium infant formula business.
Despite taking significant price increases in Venezuela and Argentina we were unable to fully offset the impact of rapidly weakening currencies in both markets.
EBIT for the Latin America segment of $53 million in the third quarter compared to $62 million in the same quarter a year ago.
The variance was due mainly to the unfavorable foreign exchange environment in Venezuela and Argentina.
Higher dairy cost also contributed but to a lesser extent.
For the full year 2014 we continue to expect double digit constant dollar sales growth.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
The strengthening performance of our U.S.
business was a clear highlight within the quarter.
Not only are we building market share in our second biggest market but we learned that birth for the first time in more than 5 years were up by more than 1.5% in the first half of 2014 according to the CDC.
In the third quarter revenue growth in the segment was strong at 10% compared to 2013 arguably helped by a somewhat easier comparison.
We maintained our recently strengthened market position in the important and profitable infant formula market.
Our strategy of maintaining strong investment in innovation through several years of relatively weaker market performance is clearly paying off.
And as a further sign of our confidence in the North American market we last week announced a $35 million investment in capacity expansion in Evansville Indiana.
Based on our consistent investment strategy we again saw growth in our Enfagrow toddler business exceed 20% in the quarter.
We're also encouraged by the response from health care professionals to our recent introduction of the Enfamil Reguline product that addresses the market needs for a product that can help reduce constipation in infants.
EBIT for North America/Europe in the third quarter increased by 3% to $67 million.
Strong sales performance was offset in large part by the impact of higher dairy costs and investments in demand creation designed to drive future growth.
On a year-to-date basis the revenue for the segment was up 8%.
As we mentioned following our strong first quarter growth in individual quarters will fluctuate as comparisons vary significantly.
We expect fourth quarter revenue growth to moderate somewhat but anticipate full year revenue growth to come in at or slightly above 6%.
I now turn the call over to Pete who will provide a little more texture on our financials.
Following Pete's section I will return with some closing remarks as well as some further comments on our guidance before we open the line for questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
I'll start my remarks on foreign exchange then provide additional details on earnings and wrap up with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials unless I note otherwise.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 7% in the third quarter.
Foreign exchange reduced sales by 3% resulting in reported sales growth of 4%.
Devaluing currencies in Venezuela and Argentina accounted for the majority of the unfavorable foreign exchange impact on sales versus the prior year.
Currency impacts in these 2 markets reduced earnings by about $0.05 per share in the third quarter compared to the prior year including the benefit from settlement and balance sheet remeasurement gains that I'll discuss later.
Currency movements in markets outside Venezuela and Argentina contributed a further $0.03 reduction in EPS versus the third quarter of 2013.
There's been a lot of press attention in the past month or 2 on the broad strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
This has not impacted our full year earnings outlook.
Any adverse effect from these most recent currency movements in Asia and Latin America on our bottom line has been largely offset by the strengthening of the dollar against the euro.
You'll recall that European sales are small for us.
We have greater cost exposure given our plant in The Netherlands which supplies both Hong Kong and China.
Therefore a strengthening dollar reduces our euro-based costs.
Year-to-date currency movements have reduced sales growth by 4%.
For the full year we expect a 4% to 5% sales impact.
The high end of this range would only materialize with a further broad strengthening of the dollar and a much more pronounced devaluation in Venezuela during the remaining months of the year.
Turning to profits.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 60.2% in the third quarter.
This is the toughest year-over-year comparison of any quarter in 2014.
Dairy costs were noticeably higher than the prior year.
This was fully expected and consistent with what was seen in the second quarter.
All 3 segments were affected with the most pronounced impact seen in Asia.
And keep in mind that most of the unfavorable noise from foreign exchange shows up in gross margins.
As important as the year-over-year comparison let me highlight that on a sequential basis gross margin in the third quarter was 160 basis points below the second quarter of 2014.
There were several factors at work.
First there was an unfavorable mix related to our efforts to reduce trade inventories in mainland China.
China sales carry a gross margin higher than the company average.
Secondly start-up costs from the Singapore plant hit their peak at about $0.04 per share in the third quarter compared to about $0.02 in the second quarter.
On a full year basis we continue to expect a total of $0.10 in expenses from the new plant.
Year-to-date we have seen about 3/4 of the total impact.
Since the plant is now operational most of the future start-up expense will be in the form of unfavorable fixed cost absorption until we reach full capacity in 2016.
The final factor that impacted the sequential comparison of third versus second quarter gross margins related to plant performance.
We saw some inefficiencies in the acceleration of our annual maintenance outage at our biggest U.S.
plant which led to unfavorable cost absorption this quarter.
Importantly the third quarter represents the low point for gross margins this year and we expect to see sequential improvement in the fourth quarter as the benefit of lower dairy cost starts to become evident.
On a full year basis gross margins are projected to come in slightly below 62% relatively consistent with the 61.9% reported year-to-date.
Gross margins for the full year are 30 basis points below our earlier expectations due to the manufacturing inefficiencies I just highlighted as well as the mix impact from slightly lower sales growth in China.
Turning our attention to operating expenses.
They stood at 37.6% of sales in the third quarter of 2014 down 170 basis points versus the prior year.
This was largely the result of net foreign exchange gains reported in other income and expense.
In Venezuela we translate our local currency financials using the SICAD I rate which stood at VEF 12 to the dollar at the end of the quarter.
The largest translation impact from a weakening dollar -- bolivar shows up in lower gross margins.
We then recognize a settlement gain in other income and expense when the government gives us access to dollars at the favorable rate of VEF 6.3 to pay for products imported into Venezuela from our Mexican plant.
This was the case in the third quarter of 2014 continuing the trend from the second quarter.
Please note that we do not expect these settlement gains to continue into Q4.
We have successfully reduced the intercompany balance owed to our Mexican subsidiary over the last 2 quarters limiting the upside in coming months.
In addition to Venezuela we saw balance sheet remeasurement gains in other select markets during the third quarter of 2014 compared to remeasurement losses in the third quarter of 2013.
Note that all of these foreign exchange gains were fully expected and included in the earnings guidance last quarter.
Importantly total third quarter demand generation investments when coupled with research and development spending were relatively flat to 2013 on a percent of sales basis.
For the full year we expect operating expenses to run slightly above 38% of sales.
Before turning to taxes I want to highlight that full year EBIT margins will be slightly below 24% roughly consistent with our performance for the past 4 years.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 17.2% in the third quarter and 22.5% on a year-to-date basis.
Included in the third quarter results was a $0.05 per share nonrecurring tax benefit.
During the quarter we were required by accounting rules to release certain tax contingencies from various jurisdictions as the period of time specified in the statute of limitations in certain tax laws had passed.
Based on the onetime benefit our full year ETR is now expected to be about 23% as compared to 24% in our last conference call.
Moving on to a discussion of our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our cash balance stood at just under $1.2 billion at the end of September compared to $1.6 billion in June.
That's the result of the early redemption in August of $500 million in notes due this November.
We funded the debt retirement from the proceeds of a 30-year debt offering completed in the second quarter for this very purpose.
Interest expense grew as expected to $18 million in the third quarter.
This includes a make-whole premium of about $0.01 per share associated with the early retirement of the November 2014 notes.
For the full year 2014 interest expense is expected to be about $60 million.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was about $421 million in the first 9 months after consuming $144 million in cash for capital spending.
Working capital increased to support the growth of the business and in particular inventory grew as we started production at our Singapore spray dryer.
One final point on cash flow.
Capital spending for the full year is now expected to be around $160 million.
This is lower than our previous guidance reflecting the lower cost for building the plant.
Depreciation and amortization in 2004 (sic) [ 2014 ] expense should be about $90 million.
To summarize the third quarter saw a significant impact from higher dairy costs the Singapore plant start-up and foreign exchange.
These factors also have a significant impact on the full year results compared to 2013.
Our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.72 per share on constant dollar sales growth of about 9%.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by 4% to 5%.
As always there are a number of puts and takes involved in changes to our earnings guidance.
The onetime tax benefit is offset by lower gross margins arising from the mix impact due to slightly lower growth in China coupled with the manufacturing inefficiencies I highlighted earlier.
With that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
In summing up I would like to address the following: the evolution of our seed market strategy; I want to provide context for our earnings guidance; and finally recognize the recent volatility in our stock price.
Firstly you'll remember we embarked on a seed market strategy several years ago.
This strategy was designed to sow seeds for longer-term growth and spread risk across an increased number of markets.
I'm pleased to report that though we are not successful everywhere and we'll continue to evaluate our approach where we are less successful we are making good progress in seed markets of the highest potential Brazil and India.
Both markets continue to demonstrate very strong revenue growth in the most important parts of their portfolio albeit off a still low base.
Now a few words on our full year guidance.
And I refer now to our overall global performance.
We expect full year constant dollar revenue growth of approximately 9%.
While the risks and opportunities within our business are roughly balanced we recognize we are operating in an environment of greater economic and political uncertainty.
Consequently we may experience greater than usual exchange rate volatility.
Hence we are maintaining our full year 2014 EPS guidance and an $0.08 range.
Our non-GAAP earnings are expected as Pete mentioned to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.72 per share.
This reflects a 4% to 6% increase in earnings per share over prior year on about 4% growth in reported U.S.
dollar revenue.
In closing I'd like to recognize the recent volatility of our stock particularly over the last week.
I fully understand the temptation to ask questions about public speculation about our company.
I ask for your understanding however that as in the past in order to avoid misleading our stakeholders or fuel speculation we do not comment on such rumors or press reports.
I remain very excited about Mead Johnson's future and its inherent organic growth potential.
The management team remains focused on realizing this potential and creating value for our shareholders by doing so.
Finally let me express my satisfaction with the way we are managing to grow both revenue and earnings through a very challenging year characterized by unfavorable exchange rate movement and record high dairy costs.
Our people around the world are responding well to these challenges and demonstrating their ability to adapt and meet the challenge of rapid change and I'm very optimistic about our future.
With that we'll now be happy to take your questions.
Operator please open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question about China/Hong Kong or maybe just 2 related questions.
One for the new product that you're introducing into the market in the fourth quarter can you talk about how that product is differentiated? So what the upgrade is relative to the previous product? And also how you're pricing that product versus the previous product? And then second could you just provide some commentary about the competition? I guess at the price point above.
So the superpremium price point and if that at all has affected the price tier that you compete in with Enfamil? Thanks Bryan.
Thanks for your question.
Firstly a couple of things.
I think I mentioned somewhat in the prepared remarks that the product we're introducing in China involves a new formulation with a unique prebiotic blend that we're introducing.
And secondly it involves new packaging design.
And we are bringing that product into the market in October as your rightly picked up on.
We have already launched this product mix in several other markets around the world and we are excited about the response that we are getting to it.
Secondly as to your question regarding the I guess your question went to the super-high premium segment in China.
What we are seeing is that there is an increased amount of competition in that segment and there is I think because of that the emerging or the emergence of some increased pricing activity within that super-high premium segment.
It doesn't significantly affect us and has really not shaped our plans at this point.
I think I mentioned -- I can add to it but you didn't ask the question I don't think.
But let me reiterate that based on the outlook for dairy prices and our desire to work to be supportive of government objectives in China we did decide not to accompany the introduction of the new product with a price increase.
I'm very confident that over time we will move prices in China but we want to be sensitive as to the timing at which we do that.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I was sort of after was if there's price competition at the superpremium tier is there a risk that the price gaps close between the Enfamil the premium tier and the superpremium tier and you begin to see some sort of effect from the competition that's happening above? Are the price gaps still so wide that that's really -- you're somewhat insulated from that? No I think you've got it completely right Bryan with your last statement that the price gap is still very large.
It may shrink from 50% to 40% or even 30% but that's still a massive jump and we are not really seeing consumers jump between the segments at this point.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to switch to North America I guess.
Just one very straightforward question.
Just you mentioned that there was an inventory comparison that somewhat benefited sales growth here in the quarter.
Is there any way to quantify the magnitude of that? And then separately on the Enfagrow launch clearly it's generating a lot of trial and distribution gains during its first year but are there any metrics or anecdotes you can give us on how much ongoing usage it's generating? How trial and repeat have trended over the course of the year? And where they stand or where you stand sorry in building out distribution on the product? Matthew just maybe I'll start with the Enfagrow comment.
We are quite happy.
I think I've mentioned in previous calls that we monitor both trial and repeat very closely in order to make sure that the investments that we are making in Enfagrow which are quite significant have a good chance of paying off.
We're very encouraged by how those 2 metrics which obviously key to any marketing person how they are evolving.
That's very encouraging.
So we really do feel very good about this part of our business.
I'll let Pete give you a bit more texture around the inventory impact in a second but let me just say that remember in the North America business our business model is a little bit different from what it is in most of our international markets in the sense that we ship direct to all the retailers.
And therefore when we talk about inventory movements we are effectively talking about retailers managing up or down their inventory levels.
We are effectively just responding to orders that we receive here and we have very little impact on the timing of those orders.
So I don't know Pete if you want to add anything to it? No.
Certainly there was an impact with some product purchased in the second quarter in advance of a July 1 price increase last year.
But as we look at the year-over-year comparison I would say that the 10% growth you are seeing for the segment the bigger component of this coming from share improvement and the actual performance of the brand.
I can maybe just add since we might get another question on it Matthew that you will have noticed perhaps in our outlook for the U.S.
business and all the North America/Europe segment as a whole that we are projecting full year growth that may be somewhere below the year-to-date rate.
One of the reasons for that is directly linked to this question.
That in prior years we have sometimes seen that the retailers will reduce inventory of non-Christmas-related items in order to make way for Christmas-related inventory.
And it's a very hard estimate for us to give.
Hence we are being a little bit more cautious on the full year outlook than we perhaps could be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And just to follow-up quickly on the last piece just where you stand in the distribution build-out.
I guess what I'm getting at is there's been a strong ongoing benefit over the course of this year that partially reflects just increasing the availability of the product.
Is that something that could effectively repeat itself next year? Or have we sort of run through some of the low-hanging-distribution opportunities for it? We don't think that's going to repeat itself next year.
There's been some contribution but we think it's acceptance of the product as opposed to distribution fill that's driving the performance this year.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Guys it's been a year since the announcement of the investigation into Mead's China unit.
Kasper can you just give us some sense of what the status update is and when we might get some kind of definitive statements from you guys? I really -- David as much as I wish to and maybe I should have included it in my prepared remarks.
I really can't say anything that is not in our current disclosure.
We review and update these disclosures as you now at a minimum on a quarterly basis and more frequently if we feel it's necessary or appropriate.
So I think the disclosure statement is really the most accurate we can -- description of the situation I can give.
These things tend to take a fair bit of time to work through.
So as I've said before we shouldn't be expecting from quarter-to-quarter any sort of dramatic change or for that matter significant movement of the issue.
But we will certainly keep you informed when and if there are material changes to the status of the investigation.
That we have a duty to do so and we take that very seriously.
In the meantime on the medical marketing in China you know that there's a lot of noise in this space.
And I would say just as part of our ongoing business we continue to review practices not only in China actually but around the world just to make sure that we continually raise the bar and that we stay in step with what guidelines and regulations tell us we should be doing.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on China and just ask it seems like we're getting various different data sources/competitors are saying that the China infant formula category growth rate is slowing.
Would just appreciate your take on the overall growth rate in the category.
And then how intense is the promotional environment.
And I think within the question I think the Internet channel is a pretty important one.
You mentioned it briefly in your script but if you could just maybe expand upon the importance of that especially to Mead I think that's helpful.
Thanks David for the follow-up.
Yes I mean I think there's little doubt that the category in China remains a very very attractive category to be in and it's certainly is still growing.
But I think it's also fair to say that it's not growing at the rate that it was perhaps 2 or 3 years ago and it is beginning to look more like some of the higher-growth markets in the rest of Asia.
And we -- that's to be expected really and we have been I think doing a good job of preparing ourselves for that.
We are seeing I guess as all of these transitions happen in China with the reduction in firms that are allowed to compete in the industry and therefore some of the smaller firms fighting for survival as bigger firms are fighting to get into new segments et cetera we are certainly seeing an increased amount of promotional and pricing activity.
It isn't very prominent in the segment in which we compete but it is as I mentioned earlier happening in this kind of super-high premium segment which a lot of companies have rushed to get into without the support of any real signs as we've talked about before.
And everybody's now trying to find their natural position within that.
So then that's maybe about as much as I can say about the price and the category growth in China.
The Internet channel as you rightly say is growing or appears to be growing very fast.
I think there is some element of double counting between the Internet channel and the baby store channel 1x to some degree as a wholesaling channel for the other.
But nevertheless it is a fast-growing channel that is based on the Chinese consumers' desire to purchase fully imported products.
We typically service that need through our Hong Kong business.
And indeed our Hong Kong business continues to perform very strongly benefiting from that same consumer need.
We have said before that we want to strengthen our performance within the Internet channel as well and I alluded a couple of times to the fact that we are in the process of building and creating capacity within our network to support sort of what I allude to as being changing portfolio needs in China.
So you can take that to mean that we clearly recognize that we could compete in China with a broader array of products.
I'm not willing to get into what where and when except to say that the lead times are significant.
So it's not something that one can do over a matter of weeks or even a few months but it's clearly something that we are looking at.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper I wonder if you can elaborate a bit on your announcement of the further capacity increase here in the U.S.
in terms of just what's driving that? Why do it now? I mean is it geared around your expectations for growth in births here? Is it related to the toddler milk build-out? Just the background there if you could.
Yes I mean John it's a bit sensitive because it's obviously sort of competitive information.
So I'm going to be just a fraction more cagey than I naturally would like to be with you.
But we are very optimistic about the U.S.
market.
We've clearly seen a very large shrinkage in birth cumulatively over the last 5 years and we would expect to see some rebound in birth as people begin to fulfill their ambitions to have a normally sized family.
So the timing is just opportune.
And as we think about our growth plans and our innovation plans and so on this was the right time to choose to make this investment.
As you can imagine it feels great for the people who work within our U.S.
business.
It feels great for the community in Evansville Indiana.
And we had a terrific sort of response from the press and the community last week when we announced this.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up Kasper.
In addition to the growth in births have you seen any changes in the last couple of months in terms of weaning practices by mothers maybe extending the formula period at all? Is there any change with existing consumers there? No we haven't yet seen that.
Obviously we are watching that closely John but I can't say that we've seen any real turnaround or change in the trend that we've been reporting on for some considerable period of time.
Our next question comes from Amit Sharma with BMO Montréal.
Kasper you talked about taking pricing higher in Hong Kong.
Can you talk about when it was taken? When should we start to realize some of the benefits? And how much was the price increase? And then as a follow-up for the China business also not necessarily China but the emerging market business.
I know you talked about probably a little bit more economic weakness or volatility.
Now when we consider that are you suggesting that there may be more volatility across the regions? Or you are suggesting that the growth rate might come down because of this weakness? Pete maybe I'll let you.
Sure.
The price increase in Hong Kong was in the mid-single digits and allowed us to as Kasper said reduce the gap.
Hong Kong prices have always been lower than the mainland and this helped close it but didn't close it completely.
I think on the second part of your question Amit about sort of the outlook in emerging markets and exchange rate volatility.
I mean we just recognize that there's an awful lot of things going on in the world right now.
There's political unrest in Hong Kong.
Hard to say what the impact will be except I think we all feel that it will be if any impact it will be very temporary in nature.
But there is also the potential that the U.S.
dollar might strengthen against a number of currencies which clearly would give us foreign exchange headwind as we book most of our revenue outside of the U.S.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a little more clarification on Kasper on your growth expectations for China.
I think you said that it will now be -- look more similar to other Asian markets.
In the past I think you've described the growth rate for the category mid-single digit.
What do you think it is now? Do you think it's lower than that? And then also if volume for Asia in the quarter is down 2% it must mean China volume is down more than that.
Can you give us a sense as to how much of the volume decline was the result of the -- just the conscious inventory reduction? Those 2 questions please.
I'll let Pete answer the numbers part of that question Robert but maybe just comment a little bit on category growth.
I think we have -- the formula that we are sort of working to as we think about growth in China is that we believe for several years now that the volume growth in the category based on a relatively flat number of birth and therefore fueled entirely by the number of consumers that are entering kind of the viable part of the population is in the low-single digits.
We then said that to that we then add a pricing benefit that comes from a combination of either price increases or people migrating from lower-price segments towards higher-price segments.
I think that formula still holds.
However as we see an increased amount of activity at the top end of the market and we perhaps see some slowdown in economic growth one would have -- you would sort of expect that that puts pressure on the category.
We still think that the kind of range that you just mapped out is probably not very far from where we see it but it is a reduction versus where it was say 2 3 years ago.
Yes with regard to the impact of reducing trade inventories in advance of the product launch this quarter fourth quarter it would have taken volume from the segment from being down 2% to being up in the low-single digits that factor alone.
[Operator Instructions] Operator? Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand your guidance.
Is what you're saying that you might have raised earnings guidance for the year but that just in case something changes whether it's fundamental or current year related between now and the end of the year.
You want to keep your forecast conservative so that really something needs to actually worsen from here? Or is what you're saying that as FX and as fundamental stands today your guidance reflects those current trends? I think our guidance reflects those current trends but we did have that $0.05 tax benefit which you might say should raise the guidance but it was offset by a 30-basis-point reduction in gross margins attributable to some manufacturing inefficiencies that we saw as well as just the mix impact on gross margins that come from slightly lower growth in China.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to cheat and squeeze 2 into 1.
First on LatAm pricing to catch up with FX headwinds.
Do you think you'll be able to do that? And if so over what duration? And then on tax rate how to think about it going forward? You guys say it was a $0.05 impact.
If we adjust your tax rate for that $0.05 impact it implies sort of an underlying tax rate of close to 21%.
Is that the sort of rate we should think about now that Singapore is brought online? Pete maybe you can take the tax question then I'll comment a bit on Latin American pricing.
Well with regard to taxes I don't know how you calculated the 21%.
I mean the 23% rate that we mentioned for the year includes -- the $0.05 a share is worth $10 million so we'd be at that 24% for the full year absent that.
And what I think we've been trying to message we've done a very good job of reducing the tax rate from 37% now to the 23% that we're seeing this year since the IPO.
But moving forward frankly it's going to be very dependent on how much cash we repatriate to the United States and if we expose lower tax rate earnings into the high U.S.
tax rate.
So we would not anticipate at this point any reduction kind of any significant reduction below that 24% real rate that we're seeing this year obviously depending on what we can do to get cash back here in a more tax efficient manner.
Yes Jason regarding your question on Latin American pricing I think we continue to work very hard to cover depreciating currencies in Venezuela and Argentina in particular with price increases.
But as you know there is a lot of either government control or government interference in both markets when it comes to pricing.
So it is a process that we are working through.
And I think this year I think we mentioned this probably at the beginning of the year in Venezuela in particular our priority has really been on reducing our balance sheet exposure to the Venezuelan market.
We opened the year with a relatively high level of intercompany payables which was exposed to some balance sheet remeasurement at some possible time in the future.
And we've worked really hard and with actually quite significant success to reduce that exposure over the past 9 months.
So I'm very pleased with that.
We continue to drive pricing very hard in Latin America as we need to do.
Whether or not we will catch up and when we will catch up is hard to say because it obviously begins to depend on how exchange rate movements happen going forward.
But we have significant businesses that I'm convinced over the long term will represent very significant value in both Venezuela and Argentina.
We have very strong market shares in both.
They tend to be very cyclical markets.
Sometimes the cycles are long.
Sometimes they're short.
But I'm sure we will see these businesses return very significant value to the company at some point in the future.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll focus on the U.S.
I think at one point Steve Golsby had said that if volumes come back there isn't really much reason why margins in the U.S.
business shouldn't be able to kind of snapback from what was around the time of the IPO 31%.
You've dropped to the low 20s and maybe recapturing a big chunk of that.
So with everything that's gone right in the U.S.
I'm kind of surprised that there isn't more let's say operating leverage to the margins.
And then with the drop in volume over as a function of the birthrates I'm also kind of surprised that you're adding capacity.
I would have thought that your utilization rates in the U.S.
business would have been low enough to absorb some increases for a couple of years at least.
Maybe you could just talk a little bit about that and I'll pass it on.
Eric with regard to your question on margins for our North America/Europe segment which were 22% when they were at that -- you mentioned the number of 31%.
That was before or very early after our IPO and before we actually started allocating some expenses if you will that were sitting kind of at the corporate level that weren't allocated out back into the business.
Our SAP system actually allowed us to manage that a lot more directly.
So we've always said if you go back to look at the margins in 2011 which were closer to 25% that is a better measure of what we'd like to see I think over the longer term.
The thing to keep in mind right now too is that the spending that we have behind the Enfagrow campaign has really increased the advertising and promotion as a percentage of sales above the company average.
And that's being done quite deliberately to try to grow the business.
And I think you should expect us to continue to invest behind that.
It's not something that we said is going to happen.
That category will grow over a longer-term period as practices change but it's not something that's going to happen overnight.
The other thing I would say too is that if you look at the WIC program the bids on those from a collective standpoint for the industry there have been some higher rebates paid.
That has some impact as well on the numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then on the capacity addition versus the utilization rate given the volume drops? Eric maybe I'll take that.
Again I think I apologized in my other remarks for not being more explicit but we don't want to get into it too much except to say that we continue to evolve our portfolio.
We continue to drive innovation.
And some of these innovations have capacity implications for us and we want to make sure we stay ahead of the curve as we see the U.S.
market return to growth.
We've taken on additional WIC commitments and so on.
So it's a relatively modest investment I guess from an overall company perspective.
But symbolically and certainly for the U.S.
business it's a very significant commitment.
Our last question comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I'll keep it short.
Just given the great shape of the balance sheet and presumably with free cash flow rising with earnings growth and more moderate CapEx with Singapore the investment in the Singapore plant largely behind you what might shareholders expect I guess not over the next couple of quarters but perhaps the next couple of years in terms of deployment or return of cash? In terms of what we've talked about I don't think it's changed particularly Jon.
The challenge we have in terms of acquisitions is a real one.
There's not that many out there but we continue to look at them and that's something that we're going to focus on.
And I think our position is that acquisitions would be the highest use of the cash balances that we have in the company.
If those don't materialize over time I think returning more cash to shareholders is something that we definitely will consider.
I would just point out that there's a fairly expensive cost to that in terms of additional taxes that we have to pay on repatriating cash to the United States to do that but we have the balance sheet to consider that over time and also to consider borrowing more here in the U.S.
Jon I'll just remind you that I think at Investor Day last year we sort of laid out I guess a formula that for our financial ambition.
And I think we said that we see the company delivering revenue growth at or above the category growth slightly above ideally.
We see earnings growing in line with revenue or possibly above.
And we see dividends growing at or above the rate of earnings growth in coming years.
And that's -- I guess that's the kind of formula that we are thinking about when we put the financials together for the business.
Great.
Thank you everyone for attending our third quarter 2014 conference call.
Kevin this ends our call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shannon and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Shannon and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Mead Johnson’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuation pricing factors capital spending depreciation and amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today’s conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today’s comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appear in this morning’s earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
In a moment I’ll first provide some highlight from fourth quarter and full year 2014 before discussing our expectations for 2015.
I will then turn the call over to Pete who will provide more details on our financial performance and our outlook.
At the end of our prepared remarks I will then provide a few summary remarks.
Before I give you the opportunity to ask questions or request clarification.
Let me now turn to our discussion of 2014.
As you likely read in our press release issued this morning we ended the year on a strong note.
Despite accelerating headwinds from foreign exchange we delivered earnings per share slightly above prior guidance and we closed another year of strong revenue growth.
Revenue growth in the first quarter of 2014 was 8% in constant dollars and 3% in reported U.S.
dollars over prior year’s quarter.
On a non-GAAP basis earnings per share for the quarter came in at $0.92 up from $0.82 in the same quarter of 2013.
Throughout the year we sold a value of our geographic diversification.
Despite challenges in individual markets including China we delivered constant dollar revenue growth of 9% for the full year 2014.
Volume contributed four percentage points to our growth rate while higher pricing added five points 200 basis points of growth came from pricing in the high inflation environments of Argentina and Venezuela.
We sold volume growth in each of our regions.
After several years of weakness our consistent investments in North America are paying off.
And our North America/Europe segment grew volume faster than any other region last year.
Latin America continues to show steady volume growth despite challenges in several markets within South America.
And in Asia we sold revenue growth decelerate as performance in mainland China adversely affected results for the broader region.
I’ll address this in more detail in a moment.
We faced significant headwinds from foreign exchange throughout the year.
This reduced our revenue growth by four percentage points when translated into U.S.
dollars.
As a result reported U.S.
dollar revenue growth was 5% for the full year 2014.
The unfavorable trend in the currency markets accelerated in the fourth quarter impacting all three reporting segments.
Turning now to earnings non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.74 for the year were up 7% versus 2013.
Our rate of earnings growth was well above the 5% increase we saw in reported U.S.
dollar revenue.
In light in gross margin headwinds from adverse foreign exchange movements higher dairy cost and start-up cost associated with unused Singapore facility were satisfied with the improvement in earnings.
Our ability to leverage growth in revenue for even faster growth in earnings is a result of our commitment to prudent cost management and the effectiveness of our ongoing productivity programs.
As an example we continue to invest aggressively behind our brands and key innovation projects are found efficiencies through procurement efforts and optimized media strategies that allowed us to meet our revenue goals with marketing spend as a lower percentage of sales.
Before I comment on the outlook for 2015 let me briefly comment on the performance within each of our reporting segments.
Firstly turning to our Asia segment in the fourth quarter our business in Asia grew 3% on a constant dollar basis.
As mentioned previously revenue growth for the region was adversely impacted by our China business.
As I mentioned in our last call we reduced trade inventory in China during the third quarter and early fourth quarter in advance of an Enfa re-launch in late October.
We are monitoring consumer off take following the launch closely and we continue to see retailers reduced inventory or cost categories as they adopt the more cautious start in light of the moderating growth in GDP.
I should also note that our 2013 base or comparison was particularly tough due to the impact of a recall by several competitors in the second half of that year.
On a full year basis constant dollar sales in Asia were up 7%; our China/Hong Kong business grew 5%.
As I stated in the past we are currently under-indexed in the higher growth channels in China particularly the eCommerce and super-high premium segments that focus mostly on imported products.
As we are discussing China just a brief note on the status of our China related investigation.
Our internal investigation has progressed and we’ve shared the results of our work to date with both the SEC and the Department of Justice and we are responding to their request for additional information.
At this time we can’t predict how or when the matter will be resolved.
I’m sure you will appreciate that I can’t provide further details at this point.
Let me now comment on results in the balance of Asia where we saw strong sales growth in 2014.
The Philippines Island and Malaysia are delivered very strong revenue growth based on strong execution and innovation underpinned our progress in all three countries.
GDP growth remains strong across most of Southeast Asia and the fundamental growth drivers for the category and Mead Johnson remain intact.
EBIT for the Asia segment increased as revenue grew in 2014 but the resulting improvement was substantially offset by higher dairy cost that adversely impacted profit margins.
Turning now to Latin America constant dollar revenue rose 14% in the fourth quarter of 2014 over the same quarter of 2013 volume was up 3% improve pricing added 11 points of growth to the quarter.
On a constant dollar basis revenue was up 16% for the full year volume increase by 6% and higher pricing contributed 10 percentage points to our growth.
Foreign exchange movements once again impacted results for the segment the strengthening dollar and resulting depreciation of local currencies reduced U.S.
dollar sales by 15% in full year 2014 more than offsetting pricing gains.
Most of our pricing gains were seen in Venezuela and Argentina despite this in aggregate we failed to fully offset currency weakness through price in these two high inflation countries.
Our performance across Mexico the Caribbean and Central America provided a highlight within the region.
We experience strong revenue growth as we re-launched our Enfa franchise and introduce seven new products towards the end of the year.
Despite a tough economic environment in Brazil we continued to grow our market share of the infant formula category there.
Our children’s business which is more sensitive to economic fluctuations had a difficult year however and overall performance was less strong then it was been in recent years.
EBIT for Latin America segment compare unfavorably to prior year quarter and full year this was primarily due to the foreign exchange and to a lesser extent higher dairy cost.
Let me now turn to our North America/Europe segment.
In the first quarter of 2014 the North American/Europe segment delivered stronger than expected revenue growth.
Constant dollar revenue was up 14% on prior year’s quarter and on a full year basis constant dollar revenue increased 10% over 2013.
Pete will provide further detail on this in a moment.
The improve performance in North America and Europe was driven by strong share gains in infant formula as well as continue progress towards our stated goal of building a strong and profitable children’s business with Enfagrow.
We invested substantially behind our North American brands in recent years and we are now reaping the rewards.
Sales of Enfagrow grew by over 20% in 2014 with demand pricing rapidly in both the United States and Canada.
While we rarely highlight our European business due to its relative size I should mention that European profits improve substantially in 2014 and revenue growth was similar to that of North America.
Our 2012 restructuring that refocused our efforts on our specialty business continues to payoff.
Revenue growth was driven by share gains within a growing European allergy segment.
EBIT margin in the segment improved substantially during the year driven by pricing gains and our turnaround in Europe.
Before I handover to Pete let me now wrap up with our perspective of 2015.
We look forward to another year of solid sales and earnings growth despite the tougher global macroeconomic climate.
Those three important factors to keep in mind as we think about 2015.
Firstly let me address our expectations for revenue growth.
We expect revenue growth in constant dollars of around 7%.
We expect lower commodity costs and currency related inflationary pressure on government in many countries will combine to create a more difficult pricing environment even as we introduce innovations.
Conversely we are hopeful a stronger economic climate in the United States will allow us to continue to recover through price the investments made in innovation and product improvement over the past five years.
Secondly going forward we expect our profit margins to benefit from lower commodity costs and the weakening euro.
That said approximately 75% of our sales are booked in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar.
While many of our costs are dollar denominated.
So despite our expectation for margin improvement as we move through 2015 there will be some offsetting effect.
Thirdly and finally we intend to continue to invest behind the product innovation in marketing initiatives at a level consistent with our growth ambition.
I’m excited with our plans for 2015 and look forward to sharing more details with you as we move through the year.
So to repeat we expect full year constant dollar sales growth to be around 7% pricing will likely make a smaller contribution to sales growth benefit in 2014.
And based on some improvement in expected profit margins we estimate non-GAAP earnings per share for 2015 to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.
I’ll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide more detailed commentary on our financial results and our outlook.
I’ll then return to provide some closing remarks before we field your questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Kasper addressed constant dollar sales growth so I’ll focus first on foreign exchange.
There has been a lot of press about foreign exchange accompanying earnings reports for multinationals.
So I’m going to get into a bit more detail on the topic that I might otherwise have done.
While there is no job that our fact has become a more significant headwind.
Please keep in mind that our EPS guidance range still anticipates good leverage of sales growth.
After discussing currency effects I’ll walk down to income statement providing highlight on both our 2014 results and our 2015 guidance.
I’ll then share a few noteworthy items on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on a non-GAAP basis.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 9% in 2014.
Foreign exchange reduced full year sales growth by 4% resulting in reported sales growth of 5%.
The dollar started to strengthen noticeably in the third quarter and this trend accelerated in the fourth quarter.
The stronger dollar reduced EPS by about $0.28 during the full year of 2014 including both translation and balance sheet re-measurement impacts more than doubled the impact we experienced in 2013.
Note that we mitigate the impact of foreign exchange through higher pricing.
There were two critical factors that worked.
First we saw very significant devaluations in Venezuela and to a lesser extent in Argentina.
These two markets accounted from a two-thirds of the total earnings degradation from foreign exchange in 2014.
Despite taking significant price increases in both markets we could not fully offset the impact of rapidly weakening currencies.
The second factor relates to the Chinese renminbi.
In the past I have pointed out the natural currency protection from the ongoing strengthening of the renminbi when other currencies in Asia and Latin America devalued.
This was not the case in 2014 for the first time since our IPO renminbi weakened slightly against the dollar on a full year basis.
In a prior three years from 2011 through 2013 renminbi strengthen by about 2.5% on average.
So there was no favorable offset from this important currency last year.
We expect to see adverse foreign exchange impacts continue in 2015 based on the recent and pronounced strengthening of the dollar across a very broad basket of currencies in Asia and Latin America.
A weaker euro helps to reduce the impact on our bottom-line since we export product into China and Hong Kong from the Netherlands but the breadth and magnitude of the decline elsewhere outweighs the euro benefit.
Over the last three months the dollar strengthened by an average of about 3% for the company.
Practically every market was affected including China.
As a result we believe our largest market will continue to contribute to unfavorable foreign exchange in 2015.
If exchange rates remain at their current level but allowing for some continued modest devaluation in Venezuela and Argentina later in the year.
We expect foreign exchange to lower sales growth by 4% in 2015.
And the same basis earnings per share would be reduced by at least $0.13 relative to 2014.
Another one percent strengthening of the dollar against all currencies where we operate will lead to further reduction in EPS of above $0.05 per share on a full year basis just from translation only.
I want to mention a bit more about Venezuela.
The conditions in Venezuela continue to deteriorate with the drop in oil prices.
You may recall we use the SICAD I exchange rate which currently stands at about VEF 12 to the dollar to translate our financial statement.
For Mead Johnson the government provided access to dollars at the official rate of 6.3 which results in a favorable cash settlement currency gain when these funds are received.
We use these dollars to pay our Mexican manufacturing operation to products imported into Venezuela.
We believe that will be a reduction in these cash settlement FX gains in 2015 for two reasons.
First we enter the New Year with the lower intercompany payable from our Venezuelan subsidiary and second over the past quarter we’ve seen this slowdown in access to U.S.
dollars and expect those to continue given the significant revenue shortfall faced by the government.
The complicated situation in Venezuela by itself adds another significant foreign exchange downside risk for the company.
Turning to profitability we delivered a gross margin of 61.9% in the fourth quarter up sequentially from 60.2% in the third quarter as we started to realize the benefit from lower dairy prices.
On a full year basis gross margin was in line with our guidance at 61.9% yet down 170 basis points from 2013 with higher dairy cost adverse foreign exchange and Singapore start-up cost more than offset higher prices in productivity efforts.
Cost savings from productivity stood at about 3.5% of our cost of goods sold slightly above 3% target.
Turning to 2015 we expect gross margin will approach 63.5% for the full year consistent with the level seen in 2013.
Lower dairy cost of the key driver keep in mind that spot dairy prices are reflected in our cost of goods sold on a seven month lag.
We expect continued quarterly improvement in gross margin on a sequential basis as we progress grew 2015.
Higher dairy prices last year affected Asia more than any other geographic segment.
As a result the 2015 gross margin improvement will be most visible in that region.
Finally cost associative with the start-up with the Singapore manufacturing facility produced earnings by about $0.10 per share in 2014.
Given that the plans is now operational and increasing throughput steadily we expect to see that expense cut in half to about $0.05 in 2015.
We anticipate a further reduction in start-up expenses in 2016 when the plans reaches full capacity.
Last year operating expenses came in at 38% of sales down 160 basis points from 39.6% in 2013.
On a constant dollar basis we increased demand generation investments including advertising and promotion sales force and marketing expenses by about $50 million on top of record spending in 2013.
But these investments still grew at a lower rate than recorded sales.
It is worth noting that R&amp;D spending continues to be strong at 2.5% of sales last year.
Other income and expense also drove favorable operating expenses measured on a percent of sales basis in 2014 versus the prior year.
The cash settlement currency gains in Venezuela that I mentioned earlier was one item at work along with the benefits associated with the sale of our equity interest in the Saudi joint venture to Almarai.
For 2015 we intend to reinvest a portion of our higher gross margins back into the business through demand generation spending.
In addition we will now have the benefit from the Almarai sale and we expect lower cash settlement gains in Venezuela.
As a result operating expenses are anticipated to come in around 39% of sales.
Given the assumptions I just outlined of both gross margins and operating expenses 2015 EBIT margins should approach 24.5% up from 23.8% in 2014 and the highest EBIT margin for the company since 2009.
Looking at taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 22.5% in 2014 which included a $0.05 per share non-recurring tax benefit that we recognized in the third quarter.
Without that benefit the normalized rate would have around 23.5%.
That’s a bit better than our prior guidance for 2014 and that is a penny or two to fourth quarter EPS versus earlier expectations.
Our 2015 global ETR was estimated to come in about 24%.
This anticipates increased benefits from the new Singapore facility but also our plans to repatriate more earnings from outside the U.S.
Moving on to interest expense 2014 was a productive year on the financing front.
We refinanced $500 million in notes due in late 2014 with new 30 year bonds at a very attractive rate significantly extending our long-term debt maturity.
We also increased our revolver from $500 million to $750 million while securing lower fees and extending the maturity in additional three years.
In 2015 we anticipate interest expense will be just under $60 million.
To summarize our 2015 non-GAAP guidance we expect constant dollar sales growth of 7% this year with foreign exchange reducing sales growth by 4%.
As a result reported sales wound increase by about 3%.
Turning to segment performance 2015 constant dollar sales growth in Asia should be similar to the company’s overall level of growth around 7% which is consistent with 2014.
However we expect that pricing will contribute less to growth in 2015 on lower commodity cost while volume growth will be stronger.
As a result the quality of our growth in Asia should improve.
In Latin America we anticipate that constant dollar sales growth will be in the low to mid-teens.
Turning to North America/Europe during 2014 we added two new WIC contracts gained non-WIC market share for infant formula and increased our distribution for Enfa growth.
We do not expect to see the same gains in 2015.
While we obviously strive for higher market share the unprecedented 2014 performance is not likely to repeat.
In addition we believe that a few retailers built their inventory late in the year which contributed to our strong fourth quarter results.
As a result we are forecasting 2015 growth for North America/Europe at a rate below that for the company on a constant dollar basis.
Non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.90 to $4 per share growth of about 4% to 7%.
The lower end of our range assumes a slightly more pessimistic foreign exchange environment among other factors while still allowing EPS leverage relative to sales.
Please note that we expect tougher comparisons in the first half of 2015 this of June in part to more favorable performance seen in the first half of 2014 both in China and with the more favorable exchange rate environment.
The timing of capacity expansions will help comparison to a big extent in the second half of the year.
Just the quick comments on the specified cost excluded from our non-GAAP results we saw unfavorable $0.13 per share hit from our mark-to-market pension liabilities in the quarter.
This is largely attributed to the adaption of new actuarial mortality tables that’s required of most companies.
In addition further softening in interest rates also had an impact.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and cash flow our cash balance was $1.3 billion of the end of 2014 up about $250 million from the prior year.
Note that cash held in the United States was about $215 million down from $360 million in the prior year.
This is what drives the need for greater cash repatriation from abroad during 2015.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $607 million during 2014 up 7% from the prior year.
The change was mainly from lower capital spending and higher earnings as we completed the Singapore construction mid-year.
Higher cash flow in 2014 allowed us to increase our dividend by double digits to $1.50 per share.
For 2014 capital spending is estimated about $175 million consistent with our longer term target of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $100 million up from $92 million in 2014 as well have full year depreciation on the Singapore facility.
With that I’ll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
As I think about our achievements in 2014 I reflect on a year in which we re-launched our Enfa franchise in many markets with new include formulations and a fresh look.
We expanded our liquids portfolio into seven new markets in Asia and Latin America and we completed the rollout of our key specialty formula across Asia.
We also continue to build our capabilities opening a new spray dying facility in Singapore and breaking ground on other important capacity expansion projects in both Europe and United States.
As we look forward to another exciting year for our company we will continue to execute against our core growth strategies and stated priorities our commitment to continues innovation behind our core products and plans the growth of our children nutrition franchise and the continued investment in the quality and relevant of our products to children and parents.
We continue to pursue these strategies organically and through selective inorganic activities when opportunities arise.
I would like to conclude my comments by acknowledging the exceptional efforts of my Mead Johnson colleagues around the globe.
Together we delivered strong performance in 2014 and we are committed to driving further growth in 2015.
So that I would like to handed call back to our operator Shannon so we can open the lines to your questions.
Shannon back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Please standby for your first question.
Your first question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Bryan.
Good morning Bryan.
I guess I’ve got a question just – or two questions I guess related to China.
One was just – Kasper you had mentioned in your prepared remarks that you were monitoring the Enfagrow launch and that retailers I guess were tightening inventory or maintaining tight inventory levels based on some assumption maybe that the market is slowing.
So if you could just expand upon that just in terms of whether there has been a material slowing in the market whether that’s just a conservative stance.
And then just related to that if I remember correctly when you launched Enfa – or when you launched a new product in China it didn’t come with a price increase and with the exchange rates maybe working against you in China is there a chance potentially to contemplate some price increases if that’s sustainable? Thanks.
Thanks Bryan.
Those are excellent question I may just for the benefit of the rest of the audience just mentioned that – we didn’t re-launch just our Enfagrow product but we restaged really the whole Enfa range in late October or early November.
And obviously we are staying very closely to how that is performing.
It’s a wee bit early to sort of commit ourselves to giving you an indication of performance but we are pretty confident based on what we’ve seen in other markets around the world.
My comment regarding reduction in retail inventory I think is fairly consistent with what you’ve heard many other companies in the consumer products space allude to over the past few weeks and months.
It’s clear that this slowdown in the Chinese economy is causing most business people including retailers to take a more cautious stance and I think it’s also fair to say that the retail trade in China but really at right across Asia has for several years being characterized by very very high levels of inventory.
I’m glad to say that I think we are at the more conservative end of the spectrum when it comes to allowing retailers to buy inventory and so I’m not trying to signal any significant sort of abrupt change in the coming months but we are clearly seeing retailers managed their purchases quite carefully.
So I hope that helps a little bit.
That’s helpful.
And then just in terms of pricing just – if the exchange rate works against you over time is there a chance – just the prospects to try to price some of that away? I think to be candid Bryan I think is going to be challenging and at least in the first half of the year because I think authorities around the world as their currencies weakened relative to the dollar are likely to experience sort of inflationary pressure in the general economy.
So they are likely to take a strong interest in pricing I think and then secondly they are likely to be very tuned into the fact that commodity costs have come down.
So though the dynamic you are reflecting might lead you to conclude that we would see some pressure on our margins.
I think we are going to be helped to a great degree by falling commodity prices as we move through the year.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question is from David Driscoll of Citi Research.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning David.
Pete you made this great comment about lower price expectations in ‘15 versus what you saw in ‘14.
But just to be super clear and maybe to clarify Bryan’s question it is positive pricing in 2015 despite this beneficial dairy side.
Is that a fair statement? Yes that’s a fair statement.
So then low pricing is something like 1 to 2 points that’s the ballpark we are talking about? Yeah I don’t want to give into it.
And then just keep in mind too as we’ve gone through 2014 we pointed that we had a couple of points of price benefit even on the company level from Venezuela and Argentina inflation.
It’s been very significant there.
So that will affect that number too.
Okay.
Kind of the heart of what I want to understand today is the fourth quarter volume decline in the Asian segment of negative too.
I kind of generally think that investors don’t ever expect to see a negative volume number in that line just given the emerging market nature there; rise of the middle class the movements to infant formula from breastfeeding.
Can you talk about what’s the underlying growth rate kind net of all these effects and maybe if I could just throw one other piece of confusion into this question.
We hear the local companies in China talk greatly about the slowdown in the category but they appear to be being a very negatively affected by the growth of the Internet channel which appears to be to the favor of the multinational companies like Mead.
So can you work this into the answer in terms of kind of what kind of what underlying growth ought to be for maybe the category and then for Mead on a go-forward basis? Yeah David.
I’ll attempt to answer couple of those things.
Firstly I should point out that volume growth on a full year basis was plus 2%.
But irrespective of that I think we would still ordinarily expect to see higher volume growth which I think is really your point and I concur with that and it’s really entirely driven by the change in the China environment and we’ve said I think we have been fairly explicit about the fact that we are not currently participating a stronger as we would like to in the highest growth channels particularly the eCommerce channel which is saving heavily imported brands mostly out of Europe and Australia and New Zealand.
And then secondly the slowing environment in China is clearly sort of hitting everybody.
So it’s really a China specific dynamic and I would be even more explicit about that.
I would say it is a mainland China specific dynamic whereas I would say the rest of Asia for us has been pretty much business as usual which as you know is very positive.
Okay.
I’ll pass it along.
Thank you so much.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Hi thanks guys for the question.
You talked about reaping the rewards in the U.S.
from past investments but you are also going to I think invest a lot of the windfall from cheaper dairy into marketing.
So can you just talk a little bit about that balance – how we think about that I understand on the one hand you don’t want all the gross margin to flow to the bottom-line.
But on the other hand there are some diminishing marginal returns on each extra dollar of marketing.
So any color there on how much you plan on reinvesting and your thoughts behind that would be appreciated.
Ken thanks for the question.
I mean we really plan our investments in demand creation on a – with a sort of bottoms of approach.
So we don’t spend money just because it becomes available.
We spend what we think it takes to execute our marketing and innovation program and at the right kind of quality.
And I think we will continue to invest in the U.S.
market in particular I think we’ve seen in the last 12 month or so that our persistence during five years of downturn where we really did not materially strengthen our investments is now – those investments are now paying off.
Without those we wouldn’t see the growth particularly in our children’s franchise that we are seeing and I would venture to say we would receive the share gains in our infant formula business that we are seeing.
So we remained committed to that.
I don’t want to get into giving a specific range of A&amp;P spends because I think it will fluctuate up and down from individual quarters and individual years.
But I think we are investing at a healthy level to support our growth ambition and we will continue to do that.
I am sorry if that sounds a little bit evasive it’s not intended.
But… That’s okay.
I’m going to try and pin you down a little bit with a follow-up if I can.
Yeah if you look at historic trends and where we’ve been in the last couple of years and so you are not going to be dramatically different from that.
So help me understand then and I’ll let it go after this but your gross margin is going to go up by 160-ish – 150 160 basis points.
Your operating margin is going to go up by – what is that 70 basis points roughly? So where is the delta help me understand a little bit where that delta is in the spending that you are adding to SG&amp;A.
What I had said in my comments you’re going to expect to see expenses in total go up by about 100 basis points and that reflects demand generation spending not just A&amp;P sales force digital marketing efforts things like that across the company.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks Ken.
Your next question comes from Warren Ackerman of Societe Generale.
You may begin.
Hi Kasper it’s Warren Ackerman of Societe Gen.
Could I turn the questioning a bit to North America? It was an amazing year for you guys in North America/Europe up 10% up 14% in the quarter.
You flagged three factors in your prepared remarks share gains expanding toddler and U.S.
retail inventory adjustments.
Just wondering whether you could maybe break those out for us in the quarter and then on the guidance on North America for 2015 you are talking about below the group average of 7.
Is that just a comp issue or is there anything else going on in terms of moving parts? Thank you.
Sure with regard to the North American growth you are talking about the quarter.
We did see heavier shipments at the end of the month and it’s very hard to us to say is that inventory build or not? We think some piece of it would be.
And it’s probably on the order of about $10 million which would say maybe five points of growth or so in the quarter would be that – about 1% for the full year nothing big.
Toddler continues – Enfagrow continues to grow.
Kasper mentioned in 20% growth for that it’s roughly 10% of our business so you are getting a couple of points from that in the rest would be share gains but WIC from those two new contracts that we had the biggest which was Florida and also non-WIC share.
And your second question – I’m sorry.
It was just about the comp.
You are saying the North America/Europe will be below the average for 2015.
Is that just because of the comp in terms of the distribution build of Toddler or are there any other kind of factors which mean that North America I mean it’s still going to be a good number but obviously much less good than what we saw in ‘14.
Yeah I think what I mentioned is the share gains that we experienced were exceptional and you cannot count and we cannot count on adding that much incremental share every year.
So we added the Florida WIC contract we don’t sit here and anticipate something that big quite honestly to be other than portfolio and we get some non-WIC share gains from that as well.
So it’s a combination of the share gains distribution for Enfagrow was a piece of it which won’t repeat and then there was about a point or so coming from that retail – retailer inventory build.
So that – when you add all those together would bring it in place.
Okay thanks Pete.
Your next question is from Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Hi thank you.
I was trying to look at the Asia guidance for 2015 and it appears to assume volume growth – mid-single-digit maybe 5% or so to get to the 7% that you are talking about for the segment.
Are you expecting a pickup in category growth in mainland China or is this just easier comps against the retailer inventory reductions that were happening? How conservative or aggressive do you think this overall assumption is for Asia top-line? We think you know the range of numbers that you are describing is more consistent with that what we have historically been able to deliver in Asia net of these kind of via adjustments that we’ve seen in 2014.
So I think Robert that’s a – you know that’s an entirely achievable.
We do of course expect to have some tailwind from the comps in the second half of the year consistent with what we said about retailer inventory reductions in China but that of course presupposes that we are at the end of that.
So I just want to through in that caveat.
And I would add that remember we are going to have tougher comps in the first half of the year as well.
So I think from an overall perspective I don’t consider that guidance to be necessarily easy to achieve.
Yeah and I would agree and I think that’s one of the push backs that we get on the stock is that with China slowing there may even be a spillover into GDP growth in other Asian markets.
And have you gone as deep to figure out or think through whether you need to gain share again in order to achieve this top-line in Asia because I think the first half is also tough because you also have continued comparisons against the recalls last year as well.
Have you held the share that you picked up in China? A lot of questions there.
Robert I think those are good points to discuss I mean the first point I’d make and a sort of a macroeconomic level is just to observe that the rest of Asia is not very closely linked to China from a trade perspective.
So as you know much to the consternation of many of the Asian governments there is relatively little trade inside of Asia.
So we think GDP growth in the rest of Asia is more likely to be driven by any recovery in Europe and the performance of the U.S.
economy which is where the bulk of their exports go.
I think we feel – obviously we feel confident in the guidance otherwise we would have given different guidance but I think you are thinking about it in the right way from a kind of volume versus price perspective.
We will continue to keep you posted.
We are very mindful of the fact that we will face headwind in translating our revenue into U.S.
dollars and that would have a sort of a significantly offsetting effect on any margin improvement that would otherwise come from commodity prices reducing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Robert.
Thanks Robert.
Your next question comes from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
You may begin.
Thanks for the question good morning.
Hi John.
Kasper it’s been a little over a year now since Mead increased its efforts behind toddler milk in the U.S.
And I guess given where you are right now just wondering if you could speak a bit in terms of trial and repeat purchases versus your expectations.
And I guess to the extent that you are seeing some pretty good sales in your current outlets any opportunity to go and expand distribution maybe in new outlets more than your initial plan.
Thank you.
Yes John.
I mean as I alluded to in my prepared remarks Enfagrow now for the second year in a row and grew by over 20% a year.
So I feel delighted with the pay off we are getting on that investment or that strategic decision to put incremental dollars behind that initiative.
We think it’s probably need biggest opportunity for both the U.S.
business and frankly speaking for the industry in total.
We are happy with this support.
We are now beginning to get from retailers and we will continue to invest behind it.
We were assisted to some degree in 2014 by distribution increases as a result of our delivery – our strong growth in 2013.
We think we probably exhausted most of that upside.
So we are not – I think Pete mentioned it briefly in his statement it also we are not anticipating additional distribution increase in 2015.
But we are expecting a continued momentum in existing outlets.
And though I’m not prepared to share with you the exact details in terms of trial and repeat I can only say that as of general rule we would not invest strongly in a product where we did not see strong repeat purchase scores.
Thank you Kasper.
Thanks.
Your next question is from Amit Sharma of BMO Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Amit.
Hi Amit.
A couple of quick clarifications.
Pete the FX – EPS sensitivities that you gave was those prior to any impact from pricing or post-pricing? Those were prior to any impact from pricing.
Got it.
And then Kasper the birth rate in U.S.
last quarter you talked about 1.5% increased? Is that trend still continuing or strengthening a little bit? Yeah.
We don’t have any update on the birth rate that would change that outlook Amit.
Okay got it.
And then one more Kasper if we look at your R&amp;D spending and it’s been rising pretty consistently with four new pediatric nutrition centers in the last four years.
Should we expect some bit of acceleration in how you bring new products to the market perhaps accelerated the timeline and get a little bit better pricing from a mix perspective versus what you have done historically? I think our lead times have really driven by two different elements Amit.
It’s driven by frankly speaking how long it takes us to make up our minds what we’re going to do and then how long it takes us to execute.
We are constantly working on getting our information systems and a market research functions and processes to support faster decision-making and that’s frankly the easier part to work on.
The time to execution is largely driven by the regulatory framework in the countries in which we compete.
And in that area we have the relatively limited scope for improvement though we are exploring options to save that timeframe.
But I don’t think that you should expect significant reductions in cycle time from us much as we would all like to see that.
So the higher R&amp;D spending will just show up in better quality of innovation not necessarily… Yeah I think it’s in quality and in the range of innovations that we are able to bring to the market.
Got it thank you.
Thanks Amit.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Thanks for the question.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matthew.
I just wanted to come back to China and the re-launch.
If we look beyond the inventory dynamics and sort of the broader market slowdown that you’ve talked about how would you characterize more generally the consumer reaction and how you think its impacting market share trends in your core distribution channels and just sort of follow-on to that eCommerce was definitely – clearly it’s still a headwind.
Is 2015 the year when you really start addressing this in a material way? Well I think we certainly are driving eCommerce with substantial efforts.
Matthew it’s hard to determine exactly when we will breakthrough to the point that it provides a significant impact on our global results but I can assure you that it’s not for lack of efforts.
I think it’s also very important when you look at I have I think said a number of times on these calls as you look at these four primary channels that really exist in China – sort of the grocery trade in China the baby store trade in China the eCommerce channel and then the importation of product through Hong Kong which are really the four channels that we think about when we look at China.
It’s very important that you don’t think that these can be added together to arrive at a total market.
There is a lot of cost channel trading taking place between those channels.
So to the extent that you see coincidence raising sales in baby stores you will automatically see the same rise in the internet channel because that is a major sourcing point for the baby store channel.
So we are vary of that.
We believe that it’s likely that there would be some slowdown in the growth particularly in the baby store channel and that’s consistent with what we’ve seen now really since the beginning of 2013.
That channel went through a very rapid phase of expansion as additional stores were opened.
But it’s much less clear to me that on a same store basis that channel is growing as fast as it used to be.
But the internet channel remains interesting.
It remains a high priority first and we have a number of initiatives in place that aim to strengthen our profile in that channel.
Okay.
And then just to go back – the impact of the restaging – is that having the intended effect on market share in baby stores or in mass? It’s a little bit early to say with – we sort of got about – I would say about eight weeks from the date we started maybe 12 from the date we started shipping.
So I’m a little bit vary of committing myself to announce right now other than to say that in other countries where we’ve launched the same marketing mix.
We’ve been very encouraged by the results we’ve seen.
Okay alright thanks guys.
I should also mentioned as we talk about these four different channels in China that I’m obviously aware that other people share these – this same channel data in different ways with you.
It’s your job to look at all the sources of data.
I would encourage you to add in the Hong Kong data into that channel data because it has a significant effect and that channel is also growing faster than the China total average.
Okay thanks.
Great.
Operator we have time for one more call – one more question before we closed the call.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Thank you [indiscernible].
Pete a question on the Venezuela impact I think you said there was a total of $0.28 of headwind between the balance sheet re-measurement and the translation.
Can you split those two and my guess – obviously this is very tough stuff but the black market rates are probably multiples weaker than what you’ve been translating I mean what kind of risk are we kind of talking here to your guidance if you are forced to I guess deal with a much lower but a new rate? Well the first if you look back in the transcript comes out I indicated that the guidance that we have incorporates a modest devaluation – think 10% or so in Venezuela.
And there is three things going on there each of which cost us about $0.02 a share for the company.
One is the impact of just translating to know our local currency result into dollars; one is the impact of the fact that we have more cash sitting there because the government hasn’t made dollars available to us for the last three months that means one of devaluation comes through.
There is a bigger balance sheet re-measurement impact and then the third of those cash settlement gains when we get cash paid – cash basically dollars made available to us at the rate of 6 versus the 12 that were using for translation.
Each of those is about $0.02 in ’15 versus ’14.
So some is already included in there but it could be worse than that to – certainly the black market rate is much higher.
In the past I think it’s been high as 50 versus the 12 that’s the government SICAD 1 exchange rate.
But the volume on that is high quite frankly and you would always expect I think to see a black market rate when currency isn’t allowed to trade freely at a super high level.
But there is real exposure and I would say we try to think through that in the guidance range that we’ve given that’s one item but it certainly could be worse than what would be included in our guidance and I don’t want to quantify anything specifically for it at this point but it could be noticeable.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up Kasper I’m sorry to make this the last question but the SEC investigation – that was focused on the China pricing or promotion and so you provided them with a response and now they have asked for more? Is that what I should conclude? I don’t think I’m prepared to go much beyond what I’ve already said except to say that I think the interactions we are having – as one would expect in these kinds of situations we have – we said before that the internal investigation focused on certain expenditures that would made in connection with our marketing in China that may have reached certain laws or regulations and was in breach of our own policies.
But I was not trying to signal anything particular beyond what my exact words said.
So beyond that it’s probably too early for me to try and get into it in more detail Eric because I’d run the risk of sort of guiding you or misleading you and that will keep you all – we keep you all posted as this moves along and obviously it’s a priority for us to try and bring it to resolution as soon as we can.
Okay.
Maybe I’ll just finish by sort of adding on to your question about Venezuela and say that – it’s important to understand that our product category just like the pharmaceutical imports here that go into Venezuela is considered a high priority category by the Venezuelan government which indicates I think a likelihood that they will continue to strive to make a foreign exchange available to importers of our category and that they would be very reluctant to see the category being priced and say the black market rate which would obviously have an enormous inflationary impact on product pricing in the marketplace.
So though we are always cautious about Venezuela and careful I don’t want to send a signal that you should be kind of panicking about the topic.
Okay.
I appreciate the responses.
Thank you.
Okay.
Shannon this will now conclude our call for the morning.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Amanda and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Mead Johnson’s First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Charles Urbain our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuation pricing taxes capital spending depreciation amortization new product launches product quality our growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our Website in connection with today’s conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our Website at meadjohnson.com.
Today’s comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in this morning’s earnings release posted on our Website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us on this morning’s call.
I’ll begin with highlights of our first quarter global performance before discussing each of our operating segments and our expectations for the full year.
Then Charles Urbain who was recently appointed to the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer will provide additional details on our financial performance and finally I’ll return to provide a few summary remarks before we as usual open the line to your questions.
Turning now to the first quarter of 2015 constant dollar sales growth at 3% came in as expected and we delivered record level non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.09 in the quarter.
Price contributed 3% to revenue growth while as we lapped very strong quarters in the United States and China businesses volume was unchanged from the same quarter of prior year.
As our rate of revenue growth was significantly affected by performance in the 2014 base year I firstly remind you that during the first half of 2014 we benefited significantly from competitors supply disruptions in several large Asian markets including China.
Secondly you will remember we mentioned in earlier calls that retailers built inventory in the United States in the first quarter of 2014 to support certain weak contract gains and again in the fourth quarter of 2014 as the increased inventory ahead of the holiday season and plan promotions in January.
These factors affected sales comparisons and we saw orders lack consumer uptake in the latest quarter.
We believe inventory levels are now back to normal and at sustainable levels.
I’ll provide further details on each of these factors in the segment discussion.
Like many other companies with significant business outside of The United States we show a great of an anticipated adverse impact from a strengthening dollar on recorded sales this quarter as we translated local currency revenue into dollars.
As a result U.S.
dollar revenue for the quarter was 2% below prior year’s quarter.
The impacts of foreign exchange on our income statement provide a good sag way to a discussion of gross margin.
As indicated in our January call we saw gross margin improves significantly in the first quarter.
The improvement was larger than anticipated as we benefited from weakness in the euro.
This euro weakness kept mitigate the impact of currency swings on profitability and earnings Charles will expand on this part later.
Gross margin at 64% was up 210 basis points from the prior quarter.
In addition to our margin being helped by the weaker euro we benefited from lower dairy input cost and the carryover effect of pricing taking through 2014.
Similar to the pattern seen in most of our prior years the timing on marketing initiatives met that expenditure on advertising and promotion activities was relatively more modest though still healthy in the first quarter.
We normally focus our discussion on non-GAAP earnings however I’d like to provide a brief update on our previously reported investigation into certain promotional activities within our China subsidiary.
This item impacted our GAAP earnings in the quarter.
In our last earnings call and in our 10-K filing we stated that the company had shared the results of our investigation with both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.
Our discussions with SEC regional staff have now progressed significantly since our last call and in the first quarter of 2015 we’ve taken an accrual of $12 million.
This amount reflects our best estimate of disgorgement fines and penalty cost that maybe paid to resolve SEC concerns about alleged actions China.
I want to emphasize that discussions with both the SEC and the DOJ are ongoing and no settlement has been agreed to-date.
Therefore there can be no assurance that the ultimate amount paid by the company to resolve that matter will not exceed the amount accrued to-date or that other sanctions will not be imposed.
Retuning now to non-GAAP measures earnings per share dropped 7% to a $1.09 from a $1.02 in the first quarter of 2014 higher gross margin lower operating expenses and a lower effective tax rate more than offset the impact on revenue of currency swings.
I’m very encouraged by the resilience of our global business.
Around the world our teams are working hard to asset the external environment appropriately adjust pricing where opportunity exist and drive productivity aggressively.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments starting with Asia.
In the first quarter constant dollar sales went in line with the prior year quarter the quarter was adversely impacted by the effects on sales civil unrest in Hong Kong.
I'll return to this topic shortly.
In aggregate pricing gains are 1% within this segment were offset by slightly lower volume in the quarter.
As expected lower commodity costs have created an environment that discourages price increases.
Let me now disaggregate our sales results and provide some color surrounding performance in key markets.
Before I comment on other markets including our business in Mainland China let me draw your attention to the ongoing situation in Hong Kong.
Many of you will be aware that the civil disturbance has had the effect of deterring mainland residents from visiting the territory.
I remind you that the majority of our sales recorded in Hong Kong are to mainland visitors.
Many businesses including our own have seen sales adversely impacted.
As local protests and unrest have escalated we observe slower uptake late in the quarter.
Sales in the territory in recent weeks have been down around 20% versus our fourth quarter 2014 average.
As you might imagine we are closely monitoring the Hong Kong situation.
We believe it will be temporary.
And I've great faith in the Hong Kong and China governments ultimately resolving the situation.
That said it's hard to predict exactly when the situation will return to normal.
Let me now turn to our business in Mainland China.
I'm encouraged that we made progress versus first quarter of 2014.
We continued to improve our execution and refine our plans to strengthen our presence in channels where we currently are under-indexed.
As previously said we are committed to creating a more flexible and more diversified business in China.
This is largely about channel and sourcing strategy.
I've also alluded to our desire to mitigate risks associated with the disruption to China-Hong Kong trade.
Given recent events in Hong Kong I'm very pleased to report that we have this month begun direct shipment of fully imported finished goods from our Netherlands facility into China.
The product offered is identical to that sold in Hong Kong clearly flagged as produced in the Netherlands and will be distributed through e-tailers our own team old store and select baby stores.
The launch is a combination of work begun more than 12 months ago.
In contrast to some alternative internet based import models.
Importation will be done by the company itself in full compliance with Chinese quality standards regulations and tax source.
Production capacity in our Netherlands facility will increase over the next few quarters and support our outlook for better growth in the second half of 2015.
We look forward to providing consumers with more choice and more ways in which to interact with our business.
You will recall that we described inventory reductions in China in our January call as it related to the fourth quarter of 2014.
We did not see further trade destocking in the latest quarter and we are satisfied with consumer uptake of our recently restage Enfa newer complete products.
Let me now comment on the balance of Asia.
Our Philippines and Malaysia businesses delivered solid growth driven by recent newer complete launches and investment to support this innovation.
The comparison for Vietnam was affected by the government imposed price reductions in mid 2014.
Because of this prior year event we expect performance matrix in the second half of 2015 to be more reflective of the progress we are making in the market.
Our Thailand business also faced the difficult comparison from first quarter 2014 when we were benefitting from a recall in late 2013 by our biggest competitor.
As you can tell we saw a confluence of rather unusual events relating to the external environment.
In combination these events had a depressing effect on Asia's growth within this quarter.
We are confident none of these are the last in nature and that we will return to a more normal growth rate in the second half of 2015.
Turning now to Latin America constant dollar revenue rose 13% in the first quarter over the same quarter of prior year.
Volume was up 3% and pricing added 10 points of growth.
Foreign exchange movements continued to significantly impact results of the entire segment.
The impact of a strengthening dollar and resulting depreciation of local currencies more than offset benefits from pricing gains.
Pricing gains in the high inflation countries of Venezuela and Argentina contributed 900 basis points to the region’s constant dollar growth rate.
However I’m pleased to note that both countries posted very solid double-digit volume growth and that the pricing gains in Argentina more than covered the impact of currency depreciation there.
We continue to gain market share in most of the region with our premium Enfa brand.
The brand is being supported by the same newer complete innovation we’re rolling out across Asia.
As you are likely aware economic conditions in Brazil have deteriorated sharply over the last year as a result we’re seeing weakness in our brand at children’s business.
However we continue to see strong growth in our Enfa franchise as we establish ourselves as the leading premium infant formula brand in Brazil.
We saw strong re-bounce in growth in both Colombia and Peru.
Both markets had a difficult year in 2014 when they addressed unique challenges.
From cross-border trade in the case of Colombia and from a deteriorating customer relationship in the case of Peru.
We made good progress on putting both issues behind us as a consequence these businesses are seeing growth restored.
Let me now turn to our North America Europe segment.
Constant dollar revenue in this segment was up 3% on the prior year’s quarter driven by share gains in North America and price increases taken last year.
Volume for the segment was unchanged compared to a strong base year.
In the United States volume was adversely impacted by a fourth quarter inventory build amongst leading retailers.
The build-up laid in 2014 was highlighted in our description of 2014 full year results as having contributed to a strong fourth quarter.
This incremental inventory was fully consumed in the first quarter and going forward we expect sales to be more reflected of consumer demand.
Secondly sales in the first quarter of 2014 driven by certain contract wins resulted in a tough comparison this quarter but importantly we continued to gain market share in North America and Europe and we now have market leading positions in both the United States and Canada.
In Europe we made a decision to exit the Russia market.
The Russian market is characterized by intense competition and high operating costs in a deteriorating economic environment.
This action is consistent with our decision to focus on claim where we can win in Europe with focus on the allergy segment and making only selective place in routine infant formula.
This European strategy continues to payoff.
Once again we delivered double-digit constant dollar growth within a very large but shrinking European market.
Let me now summarize our 2015 full year outlook.
We continue to expect revenue growth around 7% on a constant dollar basis.
In this segment Charles will outline how we now anticipate a slightly stronger headwind from foreign exchange.
However as our cost structure continues to benefit from a weaker euro and lower dairy costs we now have an improved outlook for growth margin for the full year allowing us to maintain our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance in the range of $3.90 to $4.
At the same time we anticipate investing more aggressively in demand creation in the coming quarters.
Before I hand the call over to Charles let me briefly introduce him to those of you who don’t know him.
Charles began his careers in order service Price Waterhouse before serving in various tax and finance positions in Schlumberger.
He then joined Bristol-Myers Squibb where he progressed through a series of local regional and global treasury in finance roles before serving as Chief Financial Officer for Mead Johnson while we were still a division within the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
From that role he was promoted to various business leading roles and has run each of our operating regions prior to his most recent role as Chief Development Officer where responsibility for the company’s M&amp;A strategy human resources and external affairs.
Charles has been quick to pick up the range in his interim CFO role and I know you are enjoying your interactions with him.
I’m very grateful that Charles has accepted this role as he is a perfect partner to help me to build and mentor our next generation finance organization.
Charles I hand the call over to you.
Thank you Casper and good morning everyone.
Having had a long and enjoyable history that we and Johnson both on the commercial side and earlier in micro and finance I’m very pleased to be in the interim CFO role.
As many of you in the early days after the IPO and look forward to renew those acquaintances.
Casper noted that our annual reported dollar sales growth is expected to be slightly lower than the previous guidance due to the impact of the stronger dollar and the translation of sales from local currencies.
So I’ll begin my prepared remarks with the brief discussion on foreign exchange as it impacts the quarter and outlook for the year.
I will then provide highlights on key sales and expense side as I walk down the income statement and I’ll wrap up with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on a non-GAAP finance results and references to the currency impacts of the effects of the currency fluctuations on the translation of local currency financial statements into dollars.
Moving to little discussion on foreign exchange and this really represents our perspective on the foreign exchange environment which is both pertinent to our discussion of the first quarter and balance of year.
We expect to see adverse foreign exchange conditions throughout 2015 as the dollar is generally forecasted to continue strengthening for the remainder of the year.
With exchange rates which we remain at the current level and allowing for some continued modest devaluation in Venezuela and Argentina later in the year.
We would expect foreign exchange to adversely affect growth by about 5% for the full year 2015.
We experienced the similar impact from foreign exchange fluctuations in the first quarter.
While it is clear that FX has become the most significant headwind in the translation of sales bear in mind that they are potential offsets.
For example a weaker euro helps to reduce the impact on our earnings.
We have a large manufacturing operation in Europe that when combined with the relatively low local revenue base makes us a net beneficiary of euro weakness.
In the last several months we have seen a significant slowdown in Venezuelan Government approvals to exchange bolivars into dollars to pay for product that we bring into the country and exposed bolivars cash balance is increasing as a result.
We will consider limiting exports to Venezuela in order to manage our overall exposure to that country.
We are closely monitoring our exposure and we’ll continue to evaluate options with the most recent facts and circumstances.
I will now begin my review of the income statement beginning with sales performance.
For the first quarter constant dollar sales grew 3% foreign exchange reduced sales growth by 5% resulting in lower report of sales of 2% versus the prior year quarter.
The U.S.
dollar continue to strengthen during the quarter and its effect from the translation of the local currencies impacted all reporting segments.
The Venezuelan bolivars and the most recent had the most significant adverse impact on sales but most currencies were impacted notably the Mexican Peso and the Chinese Renminbi.
The impact of increase pricing particularly in Latin America partially offset the impact of weakening currencies.
Volumes were in line with the prior year quarter on an aggregate basis.
North America and Latin America sales grew in constant dollars and Asia sales were in line with the prior year as pricing gains offset small declines in volume.
I’ll now move on to factors discussing the impacting our gross profit.
The gross margin was 64% in the first quarter up 210 basis points sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2014 and slightly up from the first quarter of 2014.
Lower dairy costs and the impact of pricing with the key drivers of this improvement.
Pricing gains were primarily the impact of CARIAGA prices take in last year.
In our last conference call we cautioned that we’ve lowered their cost it would be a more difficult pricing environment even as we introduce innovation.
This can already be seen in our first quarter results with pricing contributing 3% compared to last year annual pricing gains of 5%.
Well dairy cost and aggregate have decreased quite sharply.
It is worth noting that the there is a range of cost reductions depending upon on the sourcing region and several dairy components have in fact increased in cost.
It should also be noted that non dairy commodities which represent around 60% of our cost of commodities have in fact increased versus the prior year quarter.
In total the composite reduction and Mead Johnson commodity cost is in the high single digits.
Overall we are very pleased with the strong gross margin in the first quarter and we now believe that the annual gross margin will be approximately 64% keep in mind that sport dairy prices are reflected in our cost of goods on the 7 months lag.
So the current spot price takes us through November.
Moving on to operating expenses the first quarter operating expenses of 36.6% of sales was similar to the prior year quarter of 36.9% on a Constant Dollar basis total demand generation investments roused at similar rate for sales.
Please note that sales force marketing and other demand generating cost are included in this total.
Within demand generating expenses advertising promotion spend was 15.2% of sales.
Historically these investments are lower in the first quarter of the year.
We expect significantly higher investment level starting in second quarter as additional innovation and promotional campaigns are launched.
To conclude my discussion on operating expenses for the full year we reiterate our intention to reinvest a portion of our higher gross margins back into the business to higher demand generating expense.
As a consequence we anticipate our operating expenses for the year to be approximately 59% of sales which EBIT slightly above 24.5%.
I’ll now briefly speak about our taxes and effective tax rate.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 22.5% in the first quarter compared to 25.7% in the prior year quarter.
The lower rate is the result of the favorable geographic mix of the earnings.
On a full year basis we expect the ETR to be slightly better than our previous guidance of 24% as the favorable earnings mix in Q1 may not fully prevail for the full year.
Moving on to factors which would impact EPS guidance in the non-GAAP basis we continue to expect Constant Dollar sales growth of approximately 7% this year with the foreign currency reducing sales growth by about 5%.
As a result reported sales would increase by 2%.
As you look at key factors which could impact EPS performance in the balance of year there are several factors which should be considered.
And additional adverse foreign exchange impact on sales which I referred to earlier would reduce earnings but is projected to be fully offset by slightly higher growth margins and a lower tax rate.
We anticipate cost tailwinds through remainder of the year that I again withdraw your attention to the other commodity offsets highlighted earlier in my remarks.
Higher advertising and promotions standard in the reminder of the year which will coincide with our key commercial activities.
It is anticipated that investment will peak in quarter two with increases of at least 400 basis point about quarter one levels taking our first half spend to around 15% of sales.
Through non-GAAP earnings guidance continues to be in the range of $3.90 to $4 a share which is growth of about 4% to 7% versus 2014.
The lower end of our range continues to see more pessimistic foreign exchange environment among other factors while still delivering EPS leverage for sales.
As a reminder growth rates and investment levels will continue to vary from quarter-to-quarter reflecting the timing of our initiatives.
I will now wrap up with the high level overview of the balance sheet as a introductory comment I believe its worth noting that we have a very high return on invested capital with a return on invested capital greater than 40% and over 100% net income converted in to free cash flow in the first quarter.
Of course these measures can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter but this remains a remarkably strong balance sheet.
Our cash balance was $1.4 billion of the March 2015 up about $114 million from the prior year end.
Note that cash held in the United States was about $205 million.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was approximately $228 million in the first quarter after consuming $46 million in cash or capital investments.
For the full year capital spending expectations remain unchanged for about $175 million this is consistent with our longer term target of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around 100 million for the full year.
During the first quarter our Board of Directors announced a 10% increased dividend which should annualize to approximately $1.65 per share.
As a result dividends paid out the 2015 earnings are expected to around at a level above $320 million a year.
With that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Charles.
Charles mentioned the growth rates and investment levels will vary from quarters to quarter.
In summing up today’s call I want to emphasize our focus on long term growth.
As we evaluate our performance we continue to focus on the long term and on strengthening of our portfolio.
Over the past year or so we’ve launched newer complete innovation platform in 8 of our 10 largest markets.
Wherever we’ve introduced this innovation it has helped strengthen our brand and our business.
At the end of 2014 we introduced ready to drink products in several new key markets to diversify our offering to consumers and improved convinces and just this month we are introducing fully imported Enfa products into China to satisfy consumer desire for imported quality.
Each of these initiatives speaks to our focus on driving long term growth through innovation.
I want to recognize the many people throughout Mead Johnson who would have recent important initiatives.
During my recent webcast technical presentation I outlined four key factors that were important to our outlook I’d like to briefly reiterate these before we take your questions.
Firstly I mentioned the effects of foreign exchange with over 70% of our business in emerging markets and more than 75% of sales in non U.S.
currencies.
Any change in exchange rates has a significant impact on our top line.
Secondly we will benefit from favorable dairy input cost through March of 2015; dairy prices impact our income statement with a 7 to 9 months lag.
This gives us and you great visibility to future margins and allows us to plan investments accordingly.
Finally outside our two largest markets of China Hong Kong and the United States we are well diversified.
However these two markets account for more than half of our sales.
Conditions in the United States continue to improve and our competitive position remains strong whereas the China Hong Kong market is changing rapidly.
We see some challenges in the near term especially in Hong Kong.
But we see many more opportunities in the China Market as it continues to evolve and change and reinvesting aggressively around the world and within China to take advantage of emerging consumer trends.
As we begin our question-and-answer session let me acknowledge your interest in the progress we are making to watch solution of our China related matter with the Securities and Exchange Commission ended prominent of justice.
I ask you understanding of my inability to go much beyond my prepared remarks in answering any question on this topic.
As usual we refer you to the company’s disclosure within our 10-Q filing and commit to you that this is reviewed regularly to ensure you get accurate and timely information.
We expect full year constant dollar sales growth to be around 7% and non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.
In summary we remain confident 2015 will see us once again deliver strong sales in earnings growth consistent with our long term financial ambition.
I’ll now turn the call back to the operator.
So we can open the lines to your questions.
Amanda over to you.
Ladies and gentlemen we are ready to open the lines up for your question [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Just two questions on China the first one is regarding Hong Kong.
As I understand it the protests are related to the local Hong Kong people’s irritation with the parallel trade.
You talked a lot about this some time ago when there was other issue there when the government was going to change how many cans you could take across the border.
But what I want to understand is are there are out of stocks of infant formula at the Hong Kong stores and is this a key problem for you or is this parallel trade beyond the infant formula category? David thank you for your question.
I think the whatever you say discontent amongst local Hong Kong residents go probably much beyond the cross-border trade.
I think there are political motivations to do with the sub-inspection about the level of sale that populous has in the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive et cetera which you can imagine I don’t want to get too far into but I think it is more than a trade issue which makes it a little bit more difficult to predict when and where and how it will be resolved.
I want to be very clear that there are no significant out of stock issues in Hong Kong.
The industry I think has done a good and responsible job working with the authorities to resolve the out of stock issues that led to this initial restriction on parallel exports.
Those issues are now being monitored regularly by the authorities and I know that the authorities are satisfied I think with the industry as a whole but extremely satisfied with Mead Johnson’s performance on this issue.
Okay.
Last question for me is just on China and your internet strategy.
So I’m still a bit confused as to how to have confidence that Mead will aggressively or play very well on to this whole massive movements for infant formula on to China internet.
I respect your comments earlier about this shipment that begin this month.
But maybe you could just help us understand that is that enough and kind of why do you think it is enough if the shipments from the Netherlands facility will be kind of all it takes to get your internet sales at levels commensurate with your market share in break in order? I think David it’s all about making progress versus where we are and I don’t expect that there will be any immediate fix to this situation.
However I’m very confident that we’re making progress and we are closing gaps in our portfolio in China that will allow us to play better.
So sort of specifically what our strategy involves is working through the major e-tailors in China such as JD.com et cetera and offering these products in our tea mall store.
But I also want you to bear in mind that there is a lot of cross channel trade happening in China.
So a large amount of the sales that you see reflected in data as the internet sales are in fact sold for further resale through the baby stores and we obviously have the ability to go direct to those baby stores rather than going through some internet based intermediary.
So I feel good about the strategy.
I have previously expressed concern about all the business models which I perceive to be more fragile and perhaps unsustainable that involve sort of export or importation into China to private individuals or product that is non-compliant and evasive of Chinese [indiscernible].
We are not intending to join that business model.
We are trying to setup a business model that will allow us to play in China over the long run.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
I guess by first question just as a follow up.
Charles you mentioned selling maybe I missed it.
But you say you’ve got this decline in the dairy cost and you said the other inputs are up.
So your total inflation basket as it stands now in 2015 is expected to be what? As high single digits on total commodities.
If you are talking total commodities it’s down high single digits.
Okay.
So the non-dairy is up high single digits but the total basket is down? No Eric.
Let me try clarify that for you.
So our total cost of commodities on apples-to-apples basis is up 9% dairy is down and non-dairy is up slightly and that includes agricultural oils et cetera that more heavily used than dairy in our products.
So 60% of our commodities are non-dairy.
But in aggregate commodities will be up in high single digits.
Okay and then I guess to follow up on David’s question.
Kasper can you talk a little bit I realized kind of trying to see the end market in China is a very very difficult at the moment.
But can you talk a little bit about the super-premium product? I think for the last call or maybe it was the call before that you said that the super-premium products were promoting pretty aggressively.
Are you kind of still seeing that? Is that having a material impact in the market or on your product launch? It’s not affecting our product launch.
I mean I can sort of I can expand a little bit more on the initiative that we have just launched into the market.
As you know we are not playing in the super high premium segment and I previously outlined the reasons why and the conditions under which we would consider playing in that segment.
The product we are launching in the months of April so we’re launching it right as we speak.
It’s a fully imported product which would be priced depending on the individual SKU.
It will be priced 10% to 15% or so the above our locally manufactured product which will allow us to pay the appropriate duties to bring it into China – offer a highly competitive price and maintain a gross margin profile that is not similar to our local business.
And so I realize that you are not playing in the super-premium and for what sounds like logical reasons but are they still -- that collective part of the category are they still being price competitive? I think you had mentioned taking? Yes we are seeing a fair amount of experimentation David I think particularly by the people who have entered that segment later.
I think they are experimenting skill with ways in which they can offer a differentiated and competitive offering.
And certainly some are testing to see whether a slightly more aggressive price point within that sort of bracket of price products that would offer them an advantage.
Our next question comes from Brian Spillane with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
I guess I wanted to just maybe clarify something related to introducing the fully imported product into China and maybe tie it back to David Driscoll's questions about the Internet strategy and I guess my impression has been part of the growth of the internet channel in China has been driven by the idea by the availability of fully imported product and it’s easier in some ways to get it over the Internet than it is actually find it on the shelf at a reasonable price point.
And I guess that the idea now that you have a product that you can bring in fully imported and sell in either channel right? You could sell it on in through the baby stores you can sell it online.
That’s right.
Importantly it’s fully – it’s approved for sale right which is a big distinction I think.
Isn't that really sort of the strategy here? It almost -- as long as now you have got a product that you can bring in and you have full control of the distribution you are indifferent in terms of which channel it goes in but that’s really the sort of the big difference here and am I missing something there? No I could not articulate it any better than you’ve done Brian and I think it’s a perfect understanding of our strategy and somewhere you would have been at events recently where I have highlighted both the difficulty of anticipating the evolution over the next two years or three years of the China market and hence our emphasis on creating a flexible business model that allows us to be agile and adjust to the consumers preferences essentially and our goal would be to – for us to be in an equally strong position whether the consumer wants to shop on the Internet or they want to go to a local baby store also that matter they want to go to the local super market.
And then just as a follow-up to that and I don't want to take up too much time.
It’s just you built a plant in Singapore which I guess presumably would have been at least partly would have been supplying the idea would have been supplying China and now you are bringing product in from Europe instead.
So does it all effect the utilization of that plant or was that plant never really meant to service the Chinese market.
Thank you.
No it doesn’t affect the utilization of the Singapore plant.
The Singapore plant first of all is not currently producing finished goods.
It is simply producing base powder which is an input for finishing plants in the rest of Asia both in China and in the Philippines and in Thailand.
Largely what we did was that we built that plant to in sources the base powder that was being manufactured by using Asia by third party manufactures.
So we are not anticipating any impact on utilization of that plant.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
Kasper I wanted to clarify on with more important product coming into China now through the Netherlands plant does that over time maybe reduced the need for mainlanders to over Hong Kong by price index to begin with.
So maybe derisk the Hong Kong business long term and then secondly just in the U.S.
on the [indiscernible] market.
I think since the initial launch you’ve been a bit tempered in your outlook for distribution potential after that launch.
But it looks like the same store over the last is a very strong at least there is some incremental distribution engaged to date.
How are you thinking about distribution of the next step in U.S.
is that becoming a larger market maybe you would have thought may be six months ago? Yes I think John you are picking up on a good issue and clearly by offering a product in China that is identical from the same manufacturing site as the product we are selling in Hong Kong.
We are expecting to see a significant amount of cannibalization between those two businesses.
However having said that we are expecting that this will be a net positive over all business.
Mainly because servicing the need for imported quality in China solely by the Hong Kong distribution channels.
Limits distribution really to a kind of the Southern half of China.
You might imagine that it’s not a very good or effective way to servicing demand in Shanghai or Beijing or even in the West of China.
So net-net we certainly think that this is the right way to goal.
I also want to stress I mean obviously we didn’t have the great foresight to anticipate the disruptions that we are seeing in Hong Kong right now.
But I want to sort of stress the risk mitigation element of this initiative as well.
You can follow up with me if I didn’t answer that properly.
But I want to address your second question as well.
I think we continue to be both excited with the potential of the info growth toddler product in the United States as well as the progress we are making with it.
We’ve seen very significant growth in our distribution of this product as a consequence of the encouraging uptake really that the retailers have seen over the past 12 to 24 months.
I think most of these distribution gains are probably behind us and I don’t think that we anticipate to see the same number of gains in the 12 months going forward.
However as you’ve might imagined we monitor sort of same-store sales very very closely and we’re very encouraged by what we are seeing on that front as well.
Our next question comes from Warren Ackerman with Societe Generale.
Your line is now open.
Couple of questions first one is on your guidance.
You got quite a lot to do to hit the 7% organic growth for the year given the 3% in first quarter.
Just wondering how much of the heavy lifting will be done by the increase in capacity from Holland into the B2C channel in China versus how much is done by the rest of the business.
Just trying to get a feel for the extent of the recovery in Mainland China you expects in H2 to get you near to that full year constant dollar guidance? That’s the first question.
And then secondly in last few days I mean a lot of stories in the Chinese media talking about the government banning advertising in infant formula to encourage breastfeeding but the government talking about breastfeeding going from 28% to 50% in five years time.
I’m just wondering whether you can remind us Kasper of your advertising policy in Chinese formula and how bigger headwind might that be for the industry? I think it’s a very logical one.
Obviously we feel good about our projection of around 7% constant dollar growth that is contained in our guidance.
Really it’s around comparisons.
The first quarter we were lapping very strong performances for sort of a series of different reasons but in both the United States and in China we were lapping really strong comparison basis.
I mentioned there were other factors that kind of impacted that in other smaller markets so the challenge in the first quarter was always going to be very significant for us and I think we came in as I said as expected.
So it wasn’t a surprise for us that our growth rate was relatively lower in this quarter and we feel good about our ability to hit our full year projection.
Transitioning to the question about this talk about some enhancement of advertising restrictions in China I think the industry is still trying to understand what exactly the intent in the plan is of this proposed change to the advertising law.
It is likely I think that it’s not going to turn out to be significantly different from either the current situation in China which prevents advertising to our products that target infants below six months of age or possibly it may represent a slight expansion to include products for infants of less than 12 months of age which is sort of consistent with the approach taken in many other Asian markets and either way I think we are very familiar with operating in these kinds of frameworks.
It allows us to utilize our medical sales force quite well and I think we feel well positioned to continue to compete and drive demand regardless of where this would go but I know the industry association is in the process of clarifying this with the local authorities.
And on the breastfeeding Kasper? Well I think it’s tied as you know to – or at least it is proposed to be tied to some objective to try and increase breast feeding rates in China.
I think we are likely to see some increase in breastfeeding rates but I think it’s going to be more than offset by growth in the middle class and the movement towards higher price products that we are seeing.
So we are not projecting any significant change to the trajectory of the market in China based on this.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask about the margin on the e-commerce business so I understand the risk mitigation in shipping directly and maybe reducing the amount of reliance on cross-border trade out of Hong Kong and I understand that you are pricing the product at a premium to the locally produced but I guess I’m just not as familiar with whatever discount schedules you have with retailers brick and mortar versus what you can expect on the e-commerce side.
So could you talk about expectations? Is there going to be a margin hit from shifting out of Hong Kong into China on that business -- the imported business? Maybe you could give us a little background there on distribution channels and discounting wholesale et cetera.
It would be helpful.
I mean we’ve said before that the most profitable way to play in China is via the model that we’ve got established through Hong Kong.
So that doesn’t change.
However we’ve also said that the margin on locally produced product in China and for that matter of product that is imported and sold at a premium price is very attractive indeed and in fact above our global average.
We believe that to China says any kind of variations in our margins because of cannibalization would really be focusing on the minute staff and you would run the risk of losing the bigger picture.
I think any improvement in sales and markets shares are consequence of these initiatives in China are likely to drown out any impact on our gross margin.
I feel very good about the margin trajectory for the business and I’m not overly concerned.
So if you ask me about the precise math you are right to say that the Hong Kong gross margin is slightly higher than that of the mainland China business.
Okay appreciate that and then I get the follow on to that you had mentioned that the Hong Kong transaction is pretty limited to Southern China.
So what are you thinking in terms of the increase in distribution across the population base I mean how many people was that or can you give us some idea about your focus on the emerging middle class.
You can all cover X percent and with the direct importation will be able to cover Y% and just in terms of what you think the reachable audience is for your product.
Now that you’ll be direct shipping.
No I mean I’m not sure that we are prepared to give that kind of detailed forecast Ian.
But just conceptually we for the variety of reasons not the least being our history in Southern China.
We’ve always enjoyed a much higher share in the Southern part of China than we’ve enjoyed in particularly Eastern and Northern China.
Obviously we are constantly working to address that and you can imagine through a number of different initiatives.
This is one of them and I also want to say that what we do understand about particularly the internet channel in China is that the a lot of these growth in the internet channel is coming from 3rd and 4th tier cities in China where the offering a greater selection of goods is a much bigger advantage than it is in the major cities.
So this also becomes our way to fast to expand at a relatively low fixed cost into some of those cities where we don’t currently have feet on the ground.
Our final question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you for squeezing me in.
So I guess I want to go back to the gross margin guidance.
I think if I heard you right and there were a couple of things to look.
But it sounds like your cost that your commodities basket overall is going to be down high single digits.
Is that right? Yes the aggregate commodity cost will be down high single digit.
Okay.
That alone should give you around 200 basis points of gross margin expansion just mathematically which is in line with your guidance and then you are lapping some expense with Singapore startup.
You’ve got a little bit of pricing coming through you’ve got the Euro transaction benefits.
All of them add up to something bigger than 200 basis points.
So I guess the question is where are the offsets? What’s causing some of the gross margin leakage from this very simplistic margin bridge? Jason I think I’m not sure whether you get the 200 basis points on a full year basis or you are getting them quarter-versus-quarter.
Full year.
Obviously we in our prepared remarks said that sequentially gross margin was up by about 210 basis points and we are now expecting to stay at broadly speaking an unchanged margin through the remainder of the year.
Yes which would give you 210 basis points of gross margin expansion for the full year.
That’s right.
Yes so it sounds like you are absorbing some cost.
I mean maybe this is the cannibalization questions we heard about slack capacity in your legacy China facility.
I think it’s a – yes Jason sorry to interrupt your question but I’m conscious of time.
I think what you’re seeing is the impact of foreign exchange running through our revenue line and as it pertains to mix sales mix as well.
So obviously there are more moving parts than simply the change in the commodity costs.
Thanks Jason.
Feel free to follow up with Kathy.
Operator I think with that we’ll have to close the call.
Thank you everybody for your participation this morning.
And this concludes our call.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Second Quarter and First-Half 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shannon and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Shannon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Mead Johnson's second quarter and first-half 2015 earnings conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer and Charles Urbain our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuations pricing taxes capital spending depreciation amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today's conference.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or are on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures excluding any further mark-to-market pension adjustments with regard to the guidance appears in this morning's earning release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us on this call.
In a moment I'll provide commentary on our overall company performance in the second quarter of 2015 and the first half of the year.
As our prepared remarks today are little more detailed than usual we decided to expand this morning's call to an hour and 15 minutes.
I hope this will allow us time to cover things in a bit more detail while allowing you enough time for questions.
At the CAGNY Conference in February I suggested four factors to focus on when you think about our revenue and earnings trajectory for 2015.
Since then we've repeatedly come back to these factors at both our first quarter earnings call in April and more recently at the Deutsche Bank Conference in early June.
Since I'm sure we'll spend a good deal of time on this call discussing these again let me remind you upfront what these factors were.
Firstly the impact of favorable commodity costs then the counterbalancing headwinds from foreign exchange and largely market dynamics and competitiveness in our two largest markets North America and China.
At the Deutsche Bank investor conference in early June I spoke in more detail about the unique dynamics playing out in China currently and I'll return to that topic a little later this morning.
I'll also discuss the continuing strong performance of our business in North America and Europe.
Turning in a moment to the overall company results I'll provide highlights of our second quarter global performance before discussing each of our operating segments and our expectations for the full year.
Then Charles will provide additional details on our financial performance.
And finally I'll return to provide a few summary remarks before we as usual open the lines for questions.
Please note except where otherwise stated as Kathy said my comments will refer to our non-GAAP financials.
Turning now to the second quarter of 2015.
Our second quarter results were as described in last week's pre-announcement constant dollar sales were 3% below prior-year quarter and non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.76 for the quarter.
Volume was 5% lower than the same quarter of the prior year.
There were two key factors that drove the lower volume.
Firstly competitors' price-based promotional activities in several markets negatively impacted market share in these countries.
Secondly in Hong Kong our sales remained at levels below last year due to the residual effect of the March civil unrest.
Price contributed 2 percentage points to revenue growth from the prior-year quarter.
Improved pricing in the United States and several other markets however failed to fully offset the impact of volume losses caused by competitive price discounting in China Hong Kong Thailand and Mexico.
Apart from these few but unfortunately large markets almost every business delivered price growth.
Many markets took price increases to help mitigate negative foreign exchange impact.
As you look sequentially from the first quarter you'll notice as we expect it the contribution to growth from price is diminishing.
As we've explained before and this is not unexpected lower commodity costs have made it difficult to take price increases in many of our emerging markets.
In these markets we see government is interested in controlling inflationary impact of weakening currencies.
Finally as you know with approximately 75% of our revenue and profit outside of the United States we are subject to the adverse impact from a strengthening dollar.
In the second quarter the sales impact from foreign exchange translation was approximately 4%.
This was slightly lower than the 5% impact we saw in the first quarter of 2015 reflective of changes to our overall revenue mix.
Gross margin in the quarter at 65.4% was our highest in over five years.
It was up 360 basis points from the same quarter prior year.
All segments benefited from lower dairy costs.
And sequentially our gross margin improved by 140 basis points from the first quarter of 2015.
Charles will provide additional information on this a little later.
As we told you in the first quarter earnings call we increased our advertising and promotional spend significantly in the second quarter.
Our spend of $190 million or 18.4% of sales in the quarter was at a new record level as we invested heavily behind select growth initiatives in the latter half of the quarter.
Year-to-date our advertising and promotional expenditure was 15.7% of sales well above last year's full-year spend of 14.5%.
Our level of investment in demand creation we continue to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and occasionally from year-to-year.
The variation reflects timing of innovation projects and other growth initiatives.
We've continued to ensure that investment is competitive and at level sufficient to support our growth initiatives.
Second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share was 76% (sic) [$0.76] compared to $0.88 in prior year's quarter.
Halfway through this year earnings per share stand at $1.85 compared to $1.90 last year.
The impact of foreign exchange was not quite fully offset by higher gross margins.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our operating segments starting with Asia.
In the second quarter constant dollar sales were 10% below prior-year quarter as we saw reduced volume in the face of widespread price discounting by competitors at both wholesale and retail level.
We opted to respond with pricing actions of our own only late in the quarter.
Though we saw increased pricing activity in several countries including Thailand and Mexico the activity in China was particularly noteworthy.
Talking now specifically about China.
It is clear to us that a combination of a slowing China economy a proliferation of brand offerings and the lower dairy costs have created a competitive environment where both wholesalers and consumers are being tempted with special deals.
Mindful of the potential for such discounting activity to cause inventory bubbles we took a cautious approach in the early part of the quarter and took steps to underpin our competitiveness towards the second half of the quarter only.
Surprisingly we saw activity across all price segments and channels.
Within the quarter we continued to witness the China market shift towards imported products at the expense of locally produced goods and towards the newer channels of baby stores and e-commerce.
I've spoken previously about the strategic journey to address these trends by creating flexibility to compete in more consumer segments and strengthen our competitiveness in the fastest-growing channels.
I'd like to provide a few highlights that demonstrate the progress we've made to-date.
As you recall we launched a fully imported line of Enfa branded products in China towards the end of April as evidence of the velocity of the shift in consumer preference.
By the end of the just completed quarter this line represented approximately 20% of our total sales in Mainland China.
Unfortunately the rapid growth of our imported line was still insufficient to fully offset moderating sales of our locally packaged products.
A broader portfolio is putting us in a better position to compete in the important baby store channel.
And growth in e-commerce continues to outstrip that of other channels.
This phenomena is driven by a combination of direct-to-consumer and wholesaling activity.
Our focus remains on growing company-controlled e-commerce which is the most rapidly expanding channel.
Efforts initiated last year are beginning to pay off now.
According to external sources our e-commerce sales are up by nearly 70% on the year prior.
Admittedly this is still off a relatively small base but it shows we are figuring things out and moving in the right direction.
Our progress with priority partners like Tmall and JD.com was also satisfactory with year-to-date growth ranging between 40% and 90%.
Enfagrow our growing-up milk for instance is the fourth most searched-for line item on Tmall.
To get a flavor of this I'd encourage you to try searches on either of these sites.
Though the sites allow for more refined searches in Mandarin you'll find that an English-language search is still illustrative.
By sharing these operating metrics I hope to give you a sense of our commitment to developing these capabilities and our tracking of progress.
I'm encouraged by the early indications that our China strategy is working.
You should not expect this level of update in every call going forward.
However we do plan to return to the theme of e-commerce in China at our Investor Day on November 4.
We look forward to seeing many of you there.
Let me complete my discussion of China with a few comments pertaining to Hong Kong.
We continue to see some residual effect of the March civil disturbance and visitor numbers to the territory remain below the highs seen late last year.
That said March appears to have been the low point and visitor numbers have since begun to recover.
Second quarter sales in the territory were at a lower level not seen since mid-2013.
It's difficult to predict exactly how quickly the situation will return to normal but we remain confident that the Hong Kong and China governments will ultimately resolve the situation and avoid further damage to local commerce.
Turning now to the rest of Asia in Thailand our performance did not meet our expectations.
Consumer confidence is very low and as mentioned earlier competitor pricing pressure resulted in a loss of market share.
It is clear we did not execute as well as we would have liked to.
And we are determined to improve performance in the second half of the year.
In the balance of the region we saw solid performance in the Philippines offset by a slowdown in Malaysia associated with the introduction of a general sales tax.
We believe this slowdown in Malaysia to be temporary and primarily retailer-driven.
In summary we are of course disappointed with the latest quarter in Asia where a series of external factors coincided to produce weaker-than-expected performance.
That said we believe we have accurately identified opportunities to improve execution and we have good evidence our China strategy will deliver results.
Turning now to Latin America constant dollar revenue rose 1% in the second quarter over the same quarter of 2014.
Pricing added six points of growth but was partially offset by 5% of adverse impact from volume.
Pricing gains in the high-inflation countries of Venezuela and Argentina more than covered the impact of currency depreciation in these markets.
Our decision to hold back shipments into and inside Venezuela was a significant driver of relatively weaker volume performance.
As we have stated in previous calls we are managing risk associated with intercompany payables within defined parameters.
Foreign exchange movements continued to significantly impact results for the segment.
The impact was seen across the segment with Columbia and Brazil the most severely affected.
Performance within our Mexican subsidiary was below expectations in part due to this factor also.
However results were further impacted by loss of market share in the face of strong competition in milk modifiers.
Our core Enfa brand performed well within the quarter but I remind you that a significant part of our business is done within the local brands of milk modifiers.
Our Argentina business continues to exceed expectations.
We are constantly making operational and strategic improvements to the business there.
And in the last few weeks we finalized an agreement to acquire an additional 10% equity stake in the joint venture we formed in early 2012 this transaction took our equity position to 90%.
We are likewise seeing sustained strong performance across Central America the Caribbean and the Andean markets.
Let me now turn to our North America/Europe segment.
I'm very pleased with the continued strong performance of this reporting segment.
Constant dollar revenue growth was 6% on the prior year's quarter and sequential quarterly growth was solid also.
Growth in our United States business reflected continued improvements in the overall economic conditions allowing us to realize better pricing.
The impact year-to-date was however largely the carryover effect of pricing taken in the third quarter of last year.
On top of this we now understand 2014 birth increased by as much as 1.5% according to data recently released by the Center for Disease Control.
This represents the first solid year rebound since the economic crisis of late 2008.
The rebound in birth was not entirely unexpected and consistent with expectations described in earnings calls over the last few years.
It is however rewarding to see the rebound finally materialize.
Market share gains within our North American and European infant formula businesses and continued strong growth from our Enfagrow toddler initiative in North America also helped our performance in the quarter.
Our growth in the relatively smaller European business was somewhat understated due to our exit from Russia early in the year.
Excluding this effect of the lost revenue from the discontinued business in Russia the rest of our European business has grown at a double-digit rate year-to-date.
Our growth in North America and Europe in many ways validates our strategy to continue investing in brand equity building and demand creation during the economic downturn.
The last couple of years have seen us reap the rewards from investments we made over the 2009 to 2013 period.
Before I hand over to Charles let me now discuss our outlook for full year 2015.
We see 2015 as a year of transition for the business where we are facing a number of unique challenges.
I'm thinking here firstly about the impact of a strengthening dollar on both our topline performance and our earnings per share and secondly of the less well understood impact of lower dairy input costs that on the one hand makes for a tougher pricing environment and on the other hand supports stronger-than-average gross margin performance.
The impact of a stronger dollar alone is likely to take as much as 4 percentage points to 5 percentage points of our reported sales growth and around $0.10 of our 2015's earnings per share.
In this environment I'll once again direct your attention to the performance of our two largest markets of China Hong Kong and the United States these being the major swing factors that will impact full-year performance.
As we find it difficult to determine how long the current price discounting in China will last the wider-than-usual earnings per share range contained within our recently revised guidance reflects this level of uncertainty.
Our outlook now expects constant dollar revenue growth over prior year between 0% and 2% with non-GAAP earnings per share in between $3.63 and $3.78.
This revised outlook reflects an expectation that our new growth initiatives in China will continue to pay off and play an ever larger part in our performance there.
We expect to be seeing sequential growth in China again as we exit the year.
Gross margin is expected to remain around 64.5% as we continue to benefit from lower dairy costs this despite a tougher-than-anticipated pricing environment.
The significant investments that we remain committed to making do present a short-term challenge yet we are convinced investments to reshape our portfolio improve competitiveness in higher-growth channels and create added flexibility are necessary.
And they will allow us to come out of this year of transition in China in a stronger position.
With an improved gross margin we expect our EBIT margin slightly above 24.5%.
Charles I now turn the call over to you.
Thank you Kasper and good morning everyone.
There are several factors contributing to the recent update to our guidance.
Therefore I will walk down the income statement and provide insight and context on how these changes impacted our performance and our financial outlook.
I will then briefly discuss the geographic reporting segment results before concluding with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on our non-GAAP financial results and references to currency impacts or the effect of currency fluctuations generally refer to their impact from the translation of local currency financial statements into dollars.
I'll begin my review of the income statement primarily focusing on changes versus the prior quarter starting with our sales performance.
Kasper already discussed our constant dollar sales results and guidance.
For the second quarter sales on a reported basis were 7% below the prior year quarter.
A 2% increase in price was insufficient to offset a 5% volume reduction and a further 4% impact from adverse foreign exchange translation rates.
I'd now like to make some comments about foreign exchange and its impact on the business.
The U.S.
dollar continued to exhibit strength during the quarter.
Its effect on the translation of local currencies adversely impacted most markets in which we operate.
In particular the Latin American markets experienced widespread adverse foreign exchange headwinds with the Mexican peso and Brazilian real having the most significant impact on sales and as Kasper alluded to some impact from Colombia as well.
The SICAD rate which we use to translate our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated financial statements was devalued from VEF12 to VEF12.8 during the quarter impacting both the P&amp;L and balance sheet translation.
This adversely impacted the quarter by around $3 million on a pre-tax basis versus the prior-year period.
The balance sheet impact from this devaluation is classified in other income and expense.
Additionally we opted to slow down the shipment to and distribution of goods in Venezuela due to a buildup of unpaid invoices in the first half of the year.
The situation remains fluid but we continue to pursue a constructive dialog with the relevant authorities local authorities and receive a small payment early in July at the same VEF6.3 exchange rate received in the past.
If exchange rates were to remain at their current levels we estimate that foreign exchange will adversely impact sales growth by between 4% and 5% for the full year 2015.
This is not a significant driver of the change in guidance.
While we anticipate currency translation to have an adverse impact on full year sales there are factors which mitigate the impact of foreign exchange translation on the EPS.
Pricing lower dairy costs the euro-denominated components of our cost of goods and the translation of local currency-denominated expenses serve to mitigate but not fully offset the EPS impact from the stronger dollar on local currency sales translations.
I will now comment on our gross profit.
Our gross margin was 65.4% in the second quarter up 140 basis points sequentially from the first quarter of 2015 and up 360 basis points from the second quarter of 2014.
The increase in gross margins was driven primarily by lower dairy costs both versus the first quarter of 2015 and the prior-year quarter.
As we've previously indicated a consequence of lower dairy cost is that it becomes tougher to take price increases in support of newer innovations or to offset the pressure from currency fluctuations.
This was evident in our second quarter results and is expected to result in a less favorable impact from price in the balance of the year as we let the pricing take in 2014.
Additionally we expect to see continued trade discounting in select markets.
I remind you that dairy makes up around one-third of our total cost of goods.
For the full year 2015 we expect dairy costs will decrease around 20% over 2014 while other commodity costs in combination with conversion costs should ris4sse around 1%.
So in aggregate our annual cost of goods is expected to decrease in the mid-single-digit range.
Finally we have locked in our dairy costs for the year.
On a sequential basis the benefit from dairy will reduce in the second half versus the first half of 2015.
Bearing in mind these factors we estimate that our annual gross margin will be around 64.5% which is 50 basis points higher than the prior guidance.
Moving on to operating expenses you will recall that on the first quarter we alluded to significantly higher demand generation expenses in subsequent quarters with the second quarter likely to be the peak investment period.
In the second quarter the advertising and promotional expense was at a record of 18.4% of sales resulting in first half year-to-date expenditure close to 16% of sales.
The second quarter increase was largely due to selective investments in Asia most notably in China.
As Kasper indicated the China investment was primarily to support recent introduction of our fully imported product.
Turning to the other income expense line the current year quarter expense was related to the depreciation of the SICAD rate in Venezuela.
This compares to income in the prior-year quarter when we recognized a gain related to payments for product supplied from our plants to our Venezuelan affiliate at exchange rates which were favorable to the SICAD rate used in translating our financial statements.
To conclude my discussion on operating expenses for the year we reiterate our intention to reinvest a portion of our higher gross margins back into the business through higher demand generation expense – excuse me investment.
As a consequence to the factors I mentioned we anticipate annual EBIT to be slightly above 24.5% of sales similar to our guidance in the last call.
I will now briefly run through the geographic segment results for the quarter.
Asia sales were 10% below the prior-year quarter on a constant dollar basis.
Higher gross margins were invested in strong advertising and promotion support for the region led by investment in China against our recently launched fully-imported product.
EBIT was 30% of sales.
Latin America sales were 1% above the prior-year quarter in constant dollars.
And again the higher gross margins funded investments in advertising and promotion.
EBIT was 23% of sales compared to 24% in the prior-year quarter.
Our North America/Europe sales was 6% above the prior-year quarter in constant dollars.
EBIT was 25% above the prior-year quarter mainly driven by higher gross margins.
I will now briefly speak about our taxes and our effective tax rate.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 25.6% in the second quarter compared to 23.8% in the prior-year quarter.
The higher rate is primarily the result of a change in geographic earnings mix.
On a full year basis we expect the non-GAAP ETR to be approximately 24%.
Now to summarize our annual guidance to reiterate the guidance statement in our recent pre-announcement we anticipate constant dollar sales growth of approximately 0% to 2% this year.
Including the impact of adverse foreign currency rates reported sales are estimated to decrease by 2% to 4% this fiscal year over the prior year.
As we consider other factors which could impact EPS performance during the remainder of the year there are a number of key potential swing factors which should be considered: our balance-of-year sales trajectory; recall that Kasper alluded to the North America China mix as being a key swing item; the impact of foreign exchange translation on our financial statements; and finally the impact of pricing and the extent of ongoing discounting in selected key markets.
As mentioned in our previous quarterly earnings calls a significant devaluation in Venezuela should it happen is not considered in our current guidance.
7% devaluation in the SICAD rate has already occurred in the second quarter and our guidance assumes no further devaluation in Venezuela.
Dairy costs should remain favorable for the balance of the year but not incremental to assumptions included in our guidance.
Remember that we lock in dairy prices about seven months out.
This favorability will not be conducive to price increases as evidenced by level of marketplace discounting in the second quarter.
Overall our gross margin has seen a healthy improvement over last year and is near levels last seen around the time of the IPO.
While the supply of dairy products continues to exceed demand we could foresee a scenario where supply could become more constrained but likely not in the near future.
Non-GAAP earnings for 2015 are expected to be in the range of $3.63 per share to $3.78 per share.
GAAP earnings per share for the quarter were $0.80 per share.
GAAP earnings guidance is expected in the range of $3.56 per share to $3.71 per share.
I will now conclude with a high-level overview of the balance sheet.
While we had a difficult quarter we continue to generate strong cash flows and the balance sheet remains strong.
Our cash balance was $1.5 billion as of June 30 2015 up about $40 million from the first quarter 2015 and approximately $180 million from year-end 2014.
Cash held in the United States was approximately $215 million.
Debt stood at $1.5 billion as of June 30 2015 with our net debt position close to zero.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was approximately $377 million in the first half of 2015 after consuming $80 million in cash for capital investment.
We continue to expand our European plant in the second quarter to meet increased requirements for our fully imported product in China.
For the full year capital spending expectations remain unchanged at around $175 million.
This is in line with our long-term goal of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $100 million for the full year.
I'll talk a little bit about cash utilization before concluding.
On June 11 2015 our board of directors announced a dividend of just over $0.41 a share which should annualize to approximately $1.65 per share for the year.
As a result full-year dividends paid out of earnings are expected to exceed $320 million for 2015.
As you may recall in September 2013 the board of directors approved an additional $500 million share repurchase program following the full utilization of our previous $300 million program.
We have approximately $430 million unutilized under this new program.
We expect to activate this program in the coming quarters either through open market or privately negotiated transactions.
The program is intended to offset the dilutive impact on earnings from employees stock-based compensation plans and allow opportunistic stock-based repurchases to return capital to shareholders.
With that I shall now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Charles.
Before we take your questions I'd like to briefly reiterate the key components of our strategy and highlight a recently added strategic initiative.
Our strategy of investing in brand building and innovation in North America despite the economic downturn is now bearing fruit.
So as our decision to increase investment in the creation of a toddler business there we are happy with our current momentum.
Our decision to focus our European business likewise has produced a smaller but faster growing and more profitable business.
And we've talked in recent months about our desire to become channel agnostic in China by broadening our portfolio and creating a more flexible business model.
We are convinced this is the right strategy.
We are satisfied with the early progress of our new growth initiatives and we are committed to continued investment behind the strategy.
The Latin America region has been particularly challenged by currency headwinds this year.
Over time we'll see this stabilize and our ability to translate more of our constant dollar growth into reported sales growth will be enhanced.
Within the last few weeks we've launched a new initiative Project Fuel for Growth.
This major strategic initiative will reshape our income statement by increasing operating expense productivity.
The project is central to our goal of becoming an even more agile and flexible business that is best able to respond to changes in market dynamics and consumer preferences.
We see it as an integral part of our continued improvement effort.
Over the next three years we intend to reduce our non-A&amp;P operating expenses by 300 basis points with an intent to reinvest the majority of these savings behind new growth initiatives.
The project is targeting productivity in both external and internal cost and infrastructure.
This project will be directly overseen by our executive council that includes myself.
We will begin to see the impact from early 2016.
We plan to provide you with periodic updates on our progress.
As we open the lines to questions I'd like to remind you that recognizing our longer-than-usual prepared remarks and likely surplus of questions we decided to extend the call by 15 minutes.
Operator if you would now open the lines to questions please.
Ladies and gentlemen we are ready to open the lines up for your questions.
Please stand by for your first question.
Your first question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
You may begin.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
Hi Bryan.
Kasper I guess a question just related to some of the changes you've made in the strategy in China.
I guess as the dynamic that changed in this quarter and really in this year has been the introduction of price competition.
Can you talk a little bit about how that's affected the way you're positioning the price of the imported product and how that might evolve over the course of the year? And I guess what I'm trying to get at is how much certainty do you have about how the competitive landscape and pricing will evolve and whether or not you're going to have to make changes to some of your pricing as you move through the balance of the year? Yes.
Thanks Bryan.
It's an excellent question and you will notice that I referenced the uncertainty around the pricing environment in China when I alluded to our wider-than-usual sort of EPS range that's contained within the revised guidance.
So I want to just highlight the fact that obviously we don't have the ability to predict how competitors will act over the next six 12 or 24 months for that matter.
I do think that as people begin to lap these extraordinary windfalls that they've had from depressed dairy costs we expect that most businesses or at least most of our large competitors will again begin to run the businesses in a more normal fashion where both sales and profit growth becomes sort of an objective.
I think at the moment there is a lot of spare gross margin kind of slushing around in the system that people are choosing to spend in different ways and some people are clearly choosing to spend it on price discounting both at the consumer and at the wholesale kind of level.
Let me address the second part of your question which was around how it's affecting our imported product.
I think this is where it's beneficial for us to have a broader product portfolio in China because we are able to at least at the moment we are able to hold the price of the imported product relatively stable and most of the pricing activities that we have had to engage in first of all only began in the last months of the quarter.
So we didn't see the full impact in the quarter of that.
And consequently we suffered a reasonably significant adverse volume impact.
But most of that has been on the locally manufactured product and most of it has gone towards ensuring that we are somewhat competitive when it comes to trade margin and obviously that we are attractively priced when it comes to the consumer and we'll continue to do that.
Yeah I do think that this abnormal price environment in China is creating quite abnormal inventory situations where we see spare inventory being created in many different pools around the country and hence moving in quite a disorganized fashion between provinces and in many cases between channels.
So we see examples of people offering wholesale prices that are 15% to 25% below the prices they are selling to retail at.
I don't particularly want to point a finger at anybody as I'm sure everybody is doing what is right for their business.
But I think you're going to see a lot of variability in individual company performances in China over the coming quarters.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And just as a clarification you've been able to use the locally manufactured brand as sort of the fighter in the price competition and the imported brand or the imported product you haven't really had to come in at a lower price point than you wanted to.
Is that a fair characterization? That's correct...
All right.
...at this point.
Thank you.
Thanks Bryan.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks for the question.
Kasper I hear what you're saying about pricing in China and some of the irrationality maybe decelerating when some of the cost deflation is lapped.
The global milk this month just dropped another 20% sequentially or so.
So when do you think that lap actually takes place? Why will we not see continued irrationality and prices drop even more for the next six months or so? And I guess in relation to that isn't this quite an irrational environment we're in where we've never seen anything like this before.
We've seen cost drop before but we've never seen pricing drop to this degree.
So doesn't that speak a little bit toward the – and you've talked about this to some extent but the economy's impact as well? So I guess I'm curious how do we get confidence that in a declining milk environment and a tough Chinese economy this negative cycle really comes to a conclusion soon? Ken that's a great question.
I'll try and talk a little bit about the environment.
Then maybe Charles wants to add one or two things about milk prices.
I think you are right that it is not purely the favorable dairy costs that are what should we say inducing this particular activity.
I think it's a combination of the favorable dairy costs and individual company reactions to a slowdown in the Chinese economy and in demand there.
So most companies I think are struggling having gone into 2015 with an overly optimistic view of what they would achieve in China this year and we obviously have to recognize that that's the case for us.
And I'd be surprised if we were entirely alone.
So when you combine that with this what shall we call it surplus of gross margin different companies are taking a different path in their efforts to hold up volume if I can describe it like that.
We can't say how long that will last.
And you're right I don't want to set any expectation of a sudden kind of reversal of that trend from one quarter to the next but I do think – or our perspective is that dairy prices are either at or near their natural lows and you are probably going to begin to see some culling of herds around the world if dairy prices do not rebound.
So one way or another we believe there's more risk associated with dairy prices looking forward than there is opportunity.
So sometimes depending on how companies recognize costs sometimes over the next few quarters people will begin to substantially lap these low dairy costs.
Charles I don't know if you want to add anything? No.
I think Ken is correct that the recent spot prices are extremely low but we've seen a flattening on prices of the milk components we purchase.
And I think Kasper is absolutely right.
You will have seen that Fonterra laid off quite a few people recently and that will be felt at the farm level even more acutely.
So you have to think that supply will gradually be managed back to a level where farmers can make a living from dairy farming.
So when that happens I'm not quite sure but I think it's inevitable at some point.
And don't get me wrong we like dairy prices where they are understandably.
I should just say that as we talk about a slowing economy in China it's worthwhile us all bearing in mind what a great commercial opportunity China remains.
Even a slowing China even a China that would grow between 4 and 5 percentage points in 2022 would still add more economic activity on an annual basis than the rest of Asia Pacific and Latin America added together.
So it is a particularly – right now when we're all suffering a little bit because of the slowdown it's easy to lose sight of the fact that China is still a fantastic opportunity.
And I say this because I think it sort of supports our determination to keep making investments there.
Great.
Operator can we go to the next call? Your next question is from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
You may begin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
Good morning David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Kasper can you tell me what the rate of growth was for the China e-commerce channel for the category and how does that growth rate compare for the category growth rate for brick-and-mortar retail? Yes.
There's no doubt that e-commerce as I think you know is the fastest-growing channel in China.
I can tell you that our e-commerce business grew at nearly 70% year-to-date over prior year and we believe that that was – well we know that that was faster than the e-commerce market in total but not by a huge margin I should say.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And then the brick and mortar comparison I mean I'm assuming that one is a large negative but can you give me a sense for the size of how negative the growth rate is in brick and mortar? Very difficult to – it's difficult to say.
I'm a bit reluctant David because I have only a moderate level of confidence in the numbers that you get by the different monitoring services in China.
But if you will like accept that hedge I don't want to appear not to answer the question.
We think that the supermarket channel the sort of FMCG channel likely declined somewhere in the mid-single digits.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And there was some growth in the baby store channel which ultimately is an important customer for the e-commerce channel.
So I think it's very important to – I apologize for repeating this point but it really is very important to understand the amount of wholesaling activity between channels that is happening in China.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I appreciate the clarity.
Are you seeing Internet sales for your business across China or is it concentrated in any particular region? And then just kind of my final question on this is did the Internet shift hit Mead more than the promotional activity in the quarter? I'm uncertain as to the magnitude of the effects impacting your operations in China this quarter.
No.
I think the promotional effect was greater David.
But there's no doubt that we are under indexing in the fastest-growing channel and you know that and I know that and we are addressing that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> What about the sales for the Internet product across China and/or concentrated in regions? I'm just curious if this has changed your ability to reach other parts of China and did you see any effect of that? It's pretty broad based and as I think we've said before we are very encouraged by this new channel's ability to act as a more economical way for us to reach new cities.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Good morning Matt.
Hi.
Kasper I just wanted to ask another variation on the same theme of China promotion.
But clearly there's a number of temporary factors at play with lower dairy prices and inventory building up.
But one of the I guess more structurally worrisome aspects of what's going on recently is the fact that many of your competitors have followed the locals.
It's proved temping to consumers who are reacting to it and historically we always talked about the fact that reducing your price point was the worst thing you could do.
It would damage consumer perception of the brand.
So I guess does this suggest with consumers reacting or being tempted in some way that consumers have changed that they're behaving differently that parallel trade becoming available is making people a bit more value conscious? And just your thoughts on how that sort of impacts the profit pool longer term.
I want to reiterate what we've said before which is being borne out by our analysis of the current sales data in China.
And that is that the retailers are far more tempted by discounting than the consumer is.
And I suppose that's what I was trying to say in my prepared comments.
And if I wasn't clear enough I apologize.
But we've been very reluctant and we are very cautious in engaging in this level of discounting as it seems to us that the overwhelming effect of it is to create additional inventory in the retail trade regardless of what channel you're in whether you're in baby stores or for that matter with the dotcom retailers or with the supermarket chains.
And it is not clear to us that a sufficiently large part of that is translating into increased consumer uptake.
It is also true as we've said before that as people move from infant formula where there is relatively little price orientation from consumers into children's products people become a little bit more what shall we say promiscuous and easier to attract through different promotional vehicles price being one of them.
Okay.
Understood.
And just very brief follow on but as you look at some of the broader economic impact I guess my assumption would be that some of the overall sort of slowing of growth in the industry tends to be a bit more concentrated in children as opposed to infants just given the somewhat more discretionary nature of it.
Is that I guess another factor that's playing into the price – sort of promotional sensitivity that's going on right now? Yes there's an element of that.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thank you.
Kasper I appreciate the emphasis on brand building and the desire to maintain pricing power but with your gross margins just continuing to grow higher I was surprised to see how high they got and the economic backdrop getting weaker are you concerned that you are – that Mead is pushing margins higher at a time when everyone else is – you competitors are pushing margins lower and that you're kind of setting yourself up for more market share losses as the year goes on? And I guess the follow-up question to that is when you look at your topline targets of kind of like 6% to 7% the backdrop has changed and especially in China but not just in China but throughout the world and now that you're looking at a fuel for growth program where you're going to attack the middle of the P&amp;L do you think that by your Analyst Day you might come back to us with kind of a different outlook for what the topline environment really is? I think – I mean let me start with the fuel for growth program.
I think that program is very important to us and it's all about creating flexibility to cope with different market circumstances Rob.
So it's good that you take note of that.
And it of course gives us choices; by becoming leaner and more efficient it will give us flexibility to invest in growth initiatives and those growth initiatives can be in different lines of the P&amp;L.
They don't necessarily all need to be in the A&amp;P line.
So one of the things we could potentially invest in would be higher retail trade margins or we could – I'm not sure that that's going to be what we want to do but we could invest in a more competitive price level if that was what we felt was important.
To-date we've obviously made the judgment that lowering prices would not lead to significantly increased uptake in a way that would represent an overall benefit to the business.
You might imagine that we are continually reevaluating that obviously particularly in light of such strong margins.
And we are not going to be documenting about this if we believe that lowering the prices in China would make us more competitive but I emphasize make us more competitive at the consumer level then we would clearly do so.
We're not going to do so simply to allow us ourselves to boost performance in a given quarter in order to escape a little bit of heat so to speak.
Great.
Okay.
Operator can we move to the next? Your next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hey guys.
Thanks for the question.
Hi Jason.
Good morning.
Good morning Jason.
Two questions.
First just to keep beating China.
Can you update us on the regulatory changes that will soon take effect in China particularly on the registration requirement? And what implication you see this potentially having on the grey market volume following through Europe and whether or not any of the potential shift could be a driver behind some of the price competition you're seeing as competitors look to maybe harmonize or get closer to harmonization of price points across markets? Sorry what was the second question Jason? Yeah sorry it's a loaded question.
So first update on regulatory environment implications on grey market...
Yeah I got that.
...and whether or not this is driving some of the pricing moves you're seeing because we're seeing some competitors raise prices in Europe but at the same time that they're pressuring down in China.
And one theory that may be wrong is that they're attempting to try to harmonize a little bit to shift volume from grey market into legitimate channels ahead of the regulatory change.
Yeah.
That's an excellent observation.
Jason let me firstly say that the registration changes that are happening in China do not present a problem to us.
We're in full compliance with those as of I think July 1.
And so for us that's a nonissue.
And my understanding is that it does not at least at the outset apply to products that are imported at least not via e-commerce.
So that's my current understanding.
As often is the case when these things are introduced in China there is a little bit of uncertainty about how they will be enforced.
But certainly from our perspective and we've had extensive interaction including having had input on the regulations we don't see that as an issue for us.
I think what you are saying about pricing in Europe and efforts to harmonize highlights a very interesting dynamic that we are spending a lot of time reflecting on here.
And that is that the company's share of the sales in China in many cases differ quite substantially from their share of the profit pool in China because a lot of the sales that go into China via the e-commerce channel originate in Europe where margins are significantly lower.
And much of the profitability therefore leaks outside of the companies (1:06:15) engaged in that practice.
I think as a consequence of that they are trying to do two things.
Just like us they are trying to bring more of this trade under their direct control which we believe is a good thing and we believe will help both create pricing that is more reflective of value and create a greater conformance with China laws and regulations from the industry.
And secondly I suspect they are trying to take prices up in Europe in order to reduce the overall parallel trade though I believe that the latter might be quite difficult to achieve.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
One more question I'll pass it on.
Fuel for growth your guidance implies around 40% of sales being spent at SG&amp;A this year which seems pretty high.
How did you get to the 300-basis-point number or what are some of the factors or buckets that you're looking at to get there? And why not more? Because 300-basis-point kind of gets you back to pre-IPO levels is there opportunity you think to grind even higher without of course sacrificing some of the demand-generation initiatives? Well I mean you're right you're referencing that our sort of total operating expenses are around 40%.
And obviously they are above what shall we say many companies that you guys might view as our broad peer set.
However it's very important to recognize that so is our EBIT margin and so is our gross margin.
Much of the differential comes from differences in business models.
We spend a higher-than-average amount on A&amp;P.
We do that in order to create a sustainable value proposition for the consumer who is ultimately paying a higher price that supports a higher gross margin so we believe that to be a virtuous circle.
And though we undoubtedly have opportunities over time to become even better at judging the cost effectiveness of our A&amp;P spend we are not substantially going to look at that line for productivity opportunity at this stage.
So we are down to let's say about 25% or so in non-A&amp;P operating expenses.
And why 300 basis points and why not another number? We recognize that we do have two sales forces as part of our demand creation model.
We have a medical sales force and a trade sales force both of them are very important to our demand creation model and that creates a different cost structure from some of our sort of peer set that you look at that rely more heavily just on a single-trade sales force.
We believe that 300 basis points is significant.
It is meaningful and we are going to go after that in a fairly determined and aggressive fashion.
And then we will evaluate whether or not it is the right target or not once we get a bid into it.
I can assure you that we are not going to just be satisfied if that's what we can do and we are going to continue to challenge that.
But at this point in time I think that's the right number to aim for.
And where we're going to find it well we're going to look both externally and internally.
Obviously as many companies do we have a large number of outsourcing agreements with third party providers.
We from time to time engage with consultants that assist us in different projects.
And we have created a lot of processes and infrastructure that we had to create relatively quickly as we separated from Bristol-Myers Squibb in order to create standalone capabilities.
And in some cases we see opportunities within those areas to eliminate kind of duplication and overlap between different functions or in some cases between regional local and global functions.
So we're going to look at all of that and we have begun the exercise.
And I guess at this point we are kind of in the analysis phase but we clearly see ourselves being in the execution phase by the time we get through the fourth quarter of this year.
And we'll talk more about this on our Investor Day.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Operator to the next call please.
Your next question comes from Diane Geissler with Credit Agricole.
You may begin.
Good morning.
You may have given this figure and I may have missed it but can you tell me what total sales in China Hong Kong declined? And then you gave the mix of sales in e-commerce I think you said it was about 20% of your total sales.
Can you just talk about the shift from locally produced to completely imported and what that might mean for your local production and the facility that you have in China? Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll start with your latter question Diane.
First I may have been unclear in my prepared remarks but I did not refer to e-commerce being any particular proportion of our total sales in China.
I was referring to sales of our fully imported products by the end of the quarter representing 20% of our total sales in Mainland China which I was obviously pleased with given that the product was sort of gradually rolled out into different distribution channels beginning only really sort of towards the end of April.
Charles I don't know if you want to expand.
Yeah.
So Diane if your question is year-to-date versus the prior year in China it's just over mid single-digit decline year-on-year in China and Hong Kong would be a little bit less from that.
Thanks.
Operator can we go to the next question? So this is going to be our last question I'm afraid.
So if we can move on I think.
Who's next? Sorry Diane.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for putting me in.
Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess this is a little bit more of an accounting question because I'm not exactly sure if the infant formula players such as yourself account for it the way of other typical packaged food companies.
So your A&amp;P was $190 million in the quarter up a lot sequentially even up year-over-year but you didn't obviously get much of a – it seems like much of a response from that.
I think in your preannouncement you mentioned that you were disappointed with the new product launch in China.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand is the promotion you're referring to versus competition a deduction between gross and net sales or are we seeing the dollar impact of that increase in promotion in the advertising and promotion line that's within SG&amp;A? Thanks Eric.
Let me clarify.
You scared me a little bit when you said it was an accounting question.
But I'll have a crack at it.
Firstly any kind of pricing activity is a gross to net item.
So that is not included in the $190 million.
I think you may have misread the preannouncement or we may have been unclear.
We did not say that we were disappointed with the launch of the new product in China.
In fact we are quite pleased with the early trajectory of that launch.
What happened was that obviously built through the quarter as you can imagine because you are building distribution and therefore you exit the quarter at quite a different rate from what you had in the early phase of the launch.
What we did say was that the growth in the new product that we launched was insufficient to offset the decline that we saw in the quarter of the locally manufactured product.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I hope that helped.
Now you're quite right to say that spending $190 million well why didn't we see an impact on sale.
Well the reason is that a large proportion of that increase was invested behind the introduction of this new product.
And obviously you don't get an instant return on that.
But it obviously helped create very good momentum for that new launch.
And I can assure you that we will hold ourselves accountable for continuing to see a positive trajectory from that product as we go forward.
Inc.</span></strong> And so if we see more promotion or continuing promotion in the market that deduction between gross and net you're assuming that that kind of remains at these levels or improves and that's incorporated in your second half 2015 forecast.
There's some expectation that it will continue to affect the third quarter and we're expecting things to improve a bit in the fourth quarter largely due to a change in mix as well.
Charles maybe I'll just let you.
No.
I think that's absolutely right Kasper.
It's also one of the factors that bring our gross margins down by 90 basis points from where we were at the end of the second quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's all and thanks.
Okay.
Well allow me to thank you for your interesting questions.
I can assure you that we're committed to continuing this discussion with you.
Let me just close by reminding you that we'll be making some planned changes to our executive lineup in the next quarter as we described in our recent 8-K filing.
So on this call I want to say that Charles has done a terrific job over the past few months serving as our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
And though he'll continue in this role for another month or so I want to thank him for a job well done.
So thanks Charles.
I remind you that effective September 1 Charles will take on a new role as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer where he'll be responsible for all the commercial performance of our operating regions.
At that same time of September 1 Michel Cup will join the company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
For those of you who don't know Michel he brings both industry experience from his time at Numico and Danone and more recently he brings experience from private equity backed businesses to us.
Most recently he served as the Chief Financial Officer at D.E.
Master Blenders post the split-off of that company from the Sara Lee company.
Obviously I look forward to introducing Michel to you on our next earnings call.
And just want to say that obviously we remain committed to the continuous development of our people and our organizational capabilities and these last two moves represent another step on that journey.
So with that I want to thank you for attending our call and this completes our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome the Mead Johnson Nutrition Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
May name is Mallory and I will be your coordinator for today.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President-Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Mallory.
Good morning and thank you for joining Mead Johnson's Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
With me today are: Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Michel Cup our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuations pricing taxes capital spending depreciation amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today's conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or are on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appear in the morning's earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thank you Kathy.
And thank you all for joining our third quarter earnings call this morning.
I know a number of you are in Chicago already and prepared to join us for our Investor Day that'll begin shortly after we complete our prepared remarks.
I look forward to connecting with you all in person a little later.
For those of you who are unable to join us today in person I hope you can stay on the line with us and listen to our Investor Day presentation and you'll all have the opportunity to ask questions around 10:00 AM Central Daylight Time when we complete the first half of our Investor Day presentations.
We then allowed for a second Q&amp;A session after the completion of our Investor Day presentations around midday here.
Before I describe our third quarter results I'd like to acknowledge Michel Cup our new Chief Financial Officer.
Today is Michel's first opportunity to interact with you and for you to hear from him and he'll provide further financial details after I complete my overview of results.
Welcome Michel.
Over the next few hours we plan to review the latest quarter provide an update on the current state of our business and discuss a couple of important corporate initiatives.
But in the next 30 minutes or so and then again later this morning we'll reference the four major drivers of our performance that I've discussed on earlier occasions: the business environment and competitive situation in China; secondly our performance in our second biggest business the United States; then the continued positive impact on gross margin from lower dairy prices; and finally of course the impact of foreign exchange.
Except when I note otherwise I'll be referring to non-GAAP results.
A full reconciliation of our GAAP results as Kathy mentioned is available in our filing alongside our earnings release this morning.
Both documents are also available from our website.
Let me now turn to our third quarter results.
Despite continued strong momentum in North America and Europe the quarter proved more challenging than we'd expected with headwinds from both foreign exchange and slowing economic growth in emerging markets impacting performance.
Though gross revenue was only slightly off last year's quarter we had to invest more heavily in Asia to create this level of sales and volume.
Hence our constant dollar net sales in the third quarter of 2015 were 4% below prior year.
Volume in aggregate was also 4% below prior year's quarter.
The adverse impact from foreign exchange was significant not only in Asia but also in Latin America.
As a result in U.S.
dollars we were 10% below the prior year's quarter.
From a category perspective I'm very pleased with the progress we are making with our specialty and solutions product lines.
These products grew 11% over the same quarter in 2014 in constant dollars.
We saw strong growth both within our allergy direct specialty product Nutramigen and with our Enfamil gentle product that helps address parental concerns over formula tolerance.
The impact on company sales on these rapidly-growing products was however offset by weakness in our regular routine infant formula.
Total sales of infant formula including specialty and solutions were in line with prior year in constant dollars.
Our locally manufactured product in China however was a source of weakness in the quarter.
In a difficult environment across many emerging economies and reflective of a category with more elastic demand our children's products had a difficult quarter with sales 7% below prior year in constant dollars.
Our gross margin in the quarter improved by 480 basis points over prior-year quarter as we continued to benefit from lower dairy prices.
Despite less favorable market conditions we continued to invest in brand building and innovation within the quarter.
Our spend on advertising and promotion was 16% of sales in the third quarter.
Spend was focused on driving key initiatives in our top markets including China Thailand and Mexico.
Indeed the impact of foreign exchange can be seen right through our profit and loss statement.
Though sales for the quarter was below those of prior year we grew EBIT by 8% in constant dollars.
However adjusting for foreign exchange EBIT for the quarter was 3% below the prior-year quarter.
Earnings per share for the quarter was adversely affected by both foreign exchange and some once-off items.
We ended the quarter with $0.80 in earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis.
This compares to $0.93 in the third quarter of 2014.
Let me now talk briefly about the performance of each of our segments.
I begin with Asia where market conditions remain somewhat suppressed with continued competitive discounting in several markets including China Thailand and Malaysia.
At this stage we do not see these price reduction drives increasing consumption of infant formula.
This is understandable given the nature of the category.
The children's category is somewhat more responsive to both pricing activity and to changes in economic circumstances.
In fact aggregate category volume was relatively weaker across most markets within the Asia region.
In aggregate our own volume in Asia was 7% lower than the third quarter of 2014.
Gross sales performance and volume in China was broadly in line with prior year's quarter.
However we saw a significant increase in our discounts and promotional expenses as we matched competitors' promotional strategies to defend our market share position.
This resulted in net sales being 11% below prior year's quarter for the region as a whole.
Both in China and more broadly across Asia we are squarely focused on initiatives that'll help restore growth over time.
Later today during our Investor Day we'll update you on the progress we are making with our fully imported products in China and brief you on a couple of new initiatives that we are adding to our current efforts.
We're committed to these investments and satisfied with the progress we're making.
Also later in the day you'll have the opportunity to hear directly from Sandra Yu who heads up our Greater China business and is based in Guangzhou.
Sandra will be able to expand on my comments.
But let me make a few observations about what we're seeing in China and Hong Kong currently.
Firstly there's no doubt consumer and retailer confidence is lower than it was 12 months ago.
The result is a more cautious approach to inventory at all levels.
Secondly we continue to see a growing arbitrage trade between Europe and China.
The majority of this trade takes place over e-commerce and the main beneficiaries are Chinese traders and retailers.
Manufacturers participate only to the extent they increase sales at relatively low European margins.
For this reason and thirdly all manufacturers appear to be working to funnel sales away from consumer-to-consumer or C2C web commerce and towards company controlled business-to-consumer or B2C platforms.
We now see B2C growing at nearly three times the rate of C2C.
And we are pleased that we are growing in line with this channel.
The final and fourth dynamic in China is price discounting which is quite widespread at both wholesale and retail level.
As I've said before this is largely manufacturers enabled by low dairy prices responding to so-called new normal growth rates.
The increased price competition is fueling channel shifting from consumers.
Traditional retailers are being undercut on price by new channels.
Over the long run we believe there'll be further change in China.
The China government is unlikely to continue to permit the large scale importation and retailing via e-commerce of non-compliant non-duty paying product from Europe.
We are hopeful changes will be implemented proactively and not caused by safety or quality-related event that could have been prevented.
And we are committed to work with the Chinese regulators to find solutions to protect the Chinese consumer.
Further putting pressure on our Asia results were continued sales weakness in Southeast Asia.
Category growth reported by Nielsen is very low at best in the year-to-date.
Sales were down year-on-year and as mentioned in prior calls affected significantly by foreign exchange and market share losses incurred in the first half of the year.
Late in the quarter we introduced new packaging formats in several countries and we are currently revising advertising communication across the region.
Michel will provide further details but you'll not be surprised to learn that with lower sales and a commitment to maintaining investments our EBIT was below that of the third quarter of 2014.
Absolute EBIT was 15% below prior year in constant dollars.
On a positive note however our EBIT margin was similar to prior year.
Turning now to Latin America.
The relatively weaker conditions referenced in emerging markets also impacted our business in this region.
Despite this excluding the impact of Venezuela where we held back shipments the region grew 3% in constant dollars in the latest quarter.
In total sales for the region were marginally lower than prior-year quarter by 1% on a constant dollar basis.
Price increases were insufficient to offset the impact of foreign exchange which resulted in a 17% reduction in reported sales over the same quarter of last year.
For the region as a whole infant formula sales increased by 7% in constant dollars driven by strong performance of our specialty and solutions portfolio.
In a challenging quarter it was rewarding to see us continue to make good progress in both Argentina and Colombia.
In Argentina price increases more than offset the impact at depreciating currency.
In Mexico the continued price discounting by competitors and milk modifiers impacted both sales and margins.
As is the case in other markets we are responding to these competitive pressures and taking the necessary steps to protect our market share position.
From a profitability perspective an improved gross margin was insufficient to fully offset the impact of higher investment in demand creation.
As a result EBIT margin declined somewhat over the prior-year quarter.
I'll now turn to our performance in North America and Europe.
In our North America-Europe segment unlike what we experienced in Asia we realized improved pricing and extended lower discounts than we did in the prior-year quarter.
As a result net sales grew a very healthy 7% in the quarter on a constant dollar basis.
A stronger dollar impacted reported sales growth of 3% and volume too was up 3% on prior year.
Within the segment all our businesses in Canada the U.S.
and Europe each grew strongly.
We continued to gain market share in both Canada and within the growing allergy segment in Europe.
In fact Europe again grew in high-single digits within the quarter reflecting strong execution within a growing market segment.
In the U.S.
we introduced new and improved packaging for our liquids products and we view this is a good opportunity to continue to drive our share of higher value segments.
Ivonne Monteagudo who heads our business in the U.S.
will expand on this in her presentation later today.
As a result of better pricing higher sales and improvements to gross margin we saw very strong improvement in the EBIT delivery from this segment within the quarter.
EBIT was up more than 50% on the same quarter of last year.
Let me now briefly comment on our performance year-to-date.
Year-to-date our gross sales before discounts were up 1% in constant dollars but higher levels of discounting as referenced in our third quarter results resulted in net sales for the nine months ending September 2015 being lower than the same period of 2014 by 1%.
When reported in U.S.
dollars net sales were weaker by 6%.
Gross margin year-to-date improved by 280 basis points due to lower dairy input costs.
Our dollar investment in advertising and promotion was similar to the nine months of 2014 but increased by 100 basis points as a percentage of sales reflecting increases in local currencies.
Through the second and third quarters of 2015 we've spent behind new and improved packaging for our flagship Enfa franchise across the globe as well as continued our investment in the establishment of our Enfagrow toddler business.
The Enfagrow toddler business has become a really exciting part of our U.S.
business and continues to grow strongly.
Year-to-date sales of Enfagrow are up 18%.
On a year-to-date basis EBIT was flat in constant dollars.
Any upside from stronger gross margin was offset by investment decisions and inflationary increases in other operating expenses.
Turning now to the outlook for the full year.
As we move into the last quarter of this year it's clear we face more uncertainty and change than usual.
We've updated our guidance for both sales and earnings per share accordingly and we now expect constant dollar sales for the full year 2% to 3% below prior year.
And as a result expect non-GAAP earnings per share to fall between $3.33 and $3.43 for the full year.
I emphasize that we continue to face a larger than usual amount of uncertainty in a fluid and very competitive environment in Asia.
I'll now hand the call over to Michel who'll provide more details on both our third quarter results and our outlook and trends for the full year.
Once Michel completes his prepared remarks I'll return with a few summary comments before we transition to our Investor Day agenda.
Michel over to you.
Thank you Kasper and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I wanted to say how excited I am to be part of the Mead Johnson team.
It's a great opportunity for me to returning back to the infant and children nutrition business.
Having been in the role for just over 50 days now I have already had opportunity to visit several different markets.
I look forward to getting to know all of you better in the coming months.
This morning I will discuss more financial results and provide additional details and context into our P&amp;L.
I will then briefly discuss segment results and provide some insight on our financial outlook before concluding with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on the non-GAAP financial results and references to currency impacts or the effects of currency fluctuations generally refer to the impact on the translation of global currency financial statements into dollars.
Let me start with sales.
For third quarter sales on reported basis were 10% below the prior-year quarter.
Adverse foreign exchange rates contributed to a 6% decline of $69 million.
The U.S.
dollar continued to strengthen this quarter and its effect on the translation of local currencies negatively impacted all reporting segments.
In particular Latin America experienced widespread adverse foreign exchange movements with the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real having the most significant impact on our sales.
Volumes were 4% lower primarily driven by Hong Kong and South Asia partly offset by volume growth in North America and in Europe.
China's volume improved versus quarter two.
Price mix impact was flat.
Positive pricing in Latin America and North America was offset by price mix especially in China which was driven by increase in pricing discounts in the third quarter.
I will now move on to factors that impact our gross profit.
Gross margin was 64.9% in the third quarter up 400 basis points from the third quarter of 2014.
Lower dairy costs of $45 million was the key driver of this improvement.
Non-commodity and manufacturing costs increased which were almost all offset by productivity improvements.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined 50 basis points sequentially from the second quarter of 2015.
We expect this trend will continue in the fourth quarters due to three factors.
First our markets took fewer new price increases due to the low dairy prices.
Secondly we have selectively offered price promotions on our locally manufactured products in China due to the continued high level of competitive promotion activities.
And thirdly we'll have scheduled U.S.
plant shutdowns for annual routine maintenance.
In the near-term we anticipate that low dairy costs will continue to make it difficult to implement price increases to support new innovations or offset negative foreign currency fluctuations.
We expect that price and promotion activity as well as higher trade investments will have a negative impact in the fourth quarter and likely into the beginning of next year.
After factoring in all of these variables we estimate that our annual gross margin will be approximately at or slightly above 64.5%.
Moving on to A&amp;P and other operating expenses.
Our advertising and promotion spending was 16% of sales in the third quarter compared to 14.6% in the prior-year quarter an increase of 5.8% on a constant dollar basis.
We have made selective A&amp;P investments in Latin America to support new product launches such as liquids.
In the U.S.
we had higher investments in our toddler business.
SG&amp;A expenses decreased by 4% versus prior-year quarter.
This was mainly the result of lower incentive compensations.
Our Fuel for Growth initiatives that Kasper announced in July is targeting our operating expenses excluding advertising and promotion.
I am very pleased with the significant progress the company has made to secure the savings in 2016.
I will discuss our Fuel for Growth program in more detail during our Investor Day later this morning.
In the other income and expense line we reported the foreign exchange gain in the prior-year quarter compared to the expense in the current quarter.
The gain in the prior year was largely due to payments for products supplied from our plants to our Venezuelan affiliate at exchange rates which were favorable to the SICAP rate used in the translating of our financial statements.
In addition the prior year also included a non-recurring pension curtailment gain.
EBIT as adjusted was 7% above the prior year on a constant dollar basis.
Currency impacts adjusted EBIT negative by 10%.
I will now move to the segments.
The performance of our segments showed a mixed picture in quarter three.
Our EBIT in Asia was $154 million a decrease of 15% on a constant dollar basis.
On a reported basis our EBIT in Asia was 17% lower.
EBIT margin was in line with the quarter previous year at around 32%.
Both A&amp;P and operating expenses were flat on a constant dollar basis.
Top line was mainly negative impacted.
Latin America realized an EBIT of $39 million an increase of 2% on a constant dollar basis.
In Latin America we had a strong negative impact from currencies resulting in an EBIT decline of 26% on a reported basis.
EBIT margin was 21.1% a decrease of 250 basis points versus previous quarter last year.
On a constant dollar basis A&amp;P increased by 27% versus previous-year quarter.
North America and Europe EBIT was $101 million an increase of 57%.
This very strong performance was mainly a result of strong improvement in our gross margin in this segment.
Investment in advertising and promotion increased 8% on a constant currency basis.
This contributed to a solid net sales growth of 7%.
I will now briefly speak about our taxes and the effective tax rate.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 28% in the third quarter compared to 17.2% in the prior-year quarter.
Last year's rate was unusually low as a result of a non-recurring tax benefit.
The current year higher rate is the result of an unfavorable change in geographic earnings mix.
On a full-year basis we expect the ETR to be approximately 24.5%.
Let me briefly address our EPS.
Non-GAAP EPS for the third quarter was $0.80 a decline of $0.30 versus the prior-year quarter.
EPS from our business activities on a constant currency basis grew $0.10 or 11%.
Currency headwinds impacted EPS by $0.11.
Tax impact EPS negatively in total by $0.12.
This was result of the unfavorable change in geographic mix of $0.07 and last year's non-recurring tax benefit of $0.05 per share.
GAAP EPS for third quarter was $0.77 which is $0.03 lower than the non-GAAP EPS mainly as a result of the mark-to-market pension adjustment impacting EPS negatively by $0.04.
I will provide you now with an update of our 2013 share buyback program.
We repurchased 5.6 million shares of stock at a value of approximately $437 million for an average share price of $78 per share.
These repurchases were partly funded from the $322 million of borrowings on our revolving credit facility.
The 2013 share buyback program is now substantially completed.
Our outstanding number of shares by the end of September was 197.1 million.
Average number of shares in this quarter was 201.7 million shares.
Moving on to forward-looking guidance on a non-GAAP basis.
We forecast constant dollar sales to be lower by approximately 2% to 3% this year versus last year with foreign currency reducing sales growth by 5%.
As a result reported sales are estimated to decrease 7% to 8% this fiscal year.
From an EPS guidance perspective there are several key factors to be considered.
Dairy cost should remain favorable in the fourth quarter compared to prior-year quarter.
Most of the dairy benefit and the productivity savings will be absorbed by a higher priced promotion and higher trade investments in the fourth quarter.
Taking all of this into account non-GAAP EPS guidance is expected to be in the range of $3.33 to $3.43 per share.
GAAP EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.15 to $3.25 per share.
This takes into account an expected restructuring provision for our Fuel for Growth program of approximately $25 million in quarter four of 2015.
Later today I will provide more details of this expected restructuring.
Any additional mark-to-market pension adjustments have not been taken into account.
A significant devaluation in Venezuela should it happen is not factored into our current guidance nor any additional material changes in foreign currencies.
I will now wrap up with a high level overview of the cash flow and the balance sheet.
Despite the challenging operating environment we generated strong cash flows during the quarter which further strengthened our balance sheet.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was approximately $484 million in the nine months period.
This was significantly higher than $421 million of free cash flow generated in the prior-year period.
Our capital expenditures were $125 million in the first nine months.
For the full year capital expenditures estimate remains unchanged or approximately $175 million.
This is consistent with our longer term target of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expenses is expected to be around $100 million for the full year.
Our cash balance as of the end of September is $1.363 billion.
Limited cash was held in the United States.
Our net debt position as of September 30 amounted to $477 million.
The company to-date announced a new share repurchase program of $1.5 billion of the company's common stock.
The company expects to finance the share repurchase through issuance of debt which may include long-term notes.
Shares will be repurchased from time to time in open markets or in privately negotiated transactions including without limitation the anticipated use of a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program which the company expects to execute in the short-term.
I will provide you more detail of this plan later this morning.
Thanks again for your time this morning.
And with that I will now return to Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thank you Michel.
Let me try and wrap up this portion of our day with some summary remarks.
We expect annual recovery in emerging market conditions to be gradual and we must plan for growth to remain below historical norms through much if not all of 2016.
In anticipation of this economic challenge and to allow us to support critical investment priorities we announced our Fuel for Growth initiative in July.
In our earnings call back then I outlined our intent to reduce our non-demand creating operating expenses by 300 basis points over the next three years.
And as Michel said later today we'll describe in more detail just how we plan to achieve this.
The result would be a significant reduction in our non-demand creating expense base over this period.
We'll describe how we plan to reinvest part of these savings in critical growth initiatives while at the same time committing to an expansion of operating margins and earnings per share over the same period.
While our plan goes beyond investing in growth initiatives and managing down our expense base we also intend to begin leveraging our balance sheet for greater value creation.
I've always been clear with you that we'll not operate an underleveraged business indefinitely.
We understand that return on equity is an important metric to shareholders so today we're also announcing our plans to return cash to shareholders via a substantial share buyback program beginning in the coming quarter.
This follows the substantial completion last quarter of a previously announced $500 million buyback program.
Michel just updated you on the success of this buyback program and he will outline the new program in more detail later this morning as he said.
You should see this as a confirmation of our determination to create value for shareholders regardless of the business environment.
We recognize the external environment is dynamic and we're determined to create shareholder value regardless of market conditions.
We now conclude this section of our day.
I remind you that we will take your questions around 10:00 AM Central Daylight Time and I hope you can all stay with us.
I look forward to convening with you shortly.
Kathy I hand the call back to you so you could describe what'll happen for the rest of the day.
Thank you to all for listening in our call this morning.
Thank you Kasper.
For people who are on the phone and are interested in Mead Johnson Nutrition's Investor Day event the management presentations will be broadcast live on the Internet.
So please log in at http://investors.meadjohnson.com.
We will provide approximately 5 minutes for those that are on the phone to sign on to the Website in order that you can see the presentations as we go live.
With that operator I'm going to turn it over to you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Liz and I'll be your coordinator for today.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Liz.
Good morning and thank you for joining Mead Johnson's fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Michel Cup our Chief Financial Officer.
Earlier today we issued our earnings release and financial reference slides which are available on our website.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuations pricing taxes capital spending depreciation and amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Security Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today's conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures a reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in the morning's earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thank you Kathy and thank you to all of you for listening to our fourth quarter and full year earnings call this morning.
Over the next 35 minutes or so Michel and myself will summarize our fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results.
We'll also outline our expectations for 2016.
I'll begin by providing an overview focusing on revenue performance our key strategic initiatives and business drivers and underlying business momentum.
I'll then hand over to Michel who'd give a further analysis of our financial metrics and provide an outlook for key cost drivers.
After Michel completes his segment I will return with a few summary remarks before we give you an opportunity to ask questions.
Except when I note otherwise I'll be referring to non-GAAP results.
A full reconciliation to our GAAP results is available in our 10-Q that was filed alongside our earnings release earlier this morning.
Both documents are available on our website.
Let me start with a high level overview of our fourth quarter 2015 results for the global business before I move on to discuss full year results and then performance of each of our regions.
As we exited the year and I refer now to fourth quarter results specifically I'm pleased to say we saw a sequential improvement versus the third quarter in our underlying sales performance.
Net of withheld shipments to Venezuela a topic I'll return to later we saw sequential growth in constant dollar sales of 1%.
This represented a modest reversal of the trend we've seen over the previous three quarters despite sales performance being adversely affected by selective retailer inventory adjustments in Thailand and Malaysia.
Structural changes made to our investment profile in China and the recent launch of our fully-imported line of Enfa products helped us deliver on the promise we made in July.
At that time we said we expected to see sequential improvement in China sales as we exited the year.
And in the fourth quarter our China/Hong Kong business grew 2% sequentially over the third quarter.
Our North America/Europe segment also grew sequentially by nearly 5% on a constant dollar basis.
Let me now address our full year results.
2015 was a challenging year for us.
We were challenged by a strengthening dollar and the general weakness in many economies throughout Asia and Latin America.
GDP growth across Asia and Latin America was lower than prior year and this affected both consumer and retailer confidence.
Additionally in China we saw increased price-based competition and channel shifts that adversely impacted sales growth and required us to boost investment to protect our competitiveness.
In Southeast Asia in particular we saw a slowing economic growth in Thailand and Malaysia.
Combined with some company-specific executional issues this resulted in lower volumes through the year.
In the Philippines where GDP growth remained more robust we saw relatively better performance.
And there we are satisfied with the progress we made through the year.
We continued to benefit from lower dairy costs and an improved gross margin as a consequence.
This helped partially offset the EBIT and EPS impact of foreign exchange and lower sales.
For full year 2015 constant dollar net sales were 2% below prior year largely due to our challenges in China and Hong Kong.
Gross sales however were in line with 2014.
This shows continued solid demand for our brands though a challenging trading environment saw us report sales below prior year level.
The impact of a strengthening dollar was significant throughout the year reducing reported sales by about 6% and earnings per share by $0.26.
Where possible we took price to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange.
However competitors' strategies and abnormally low dairy costs made price increases more difficult than we've seen in recent years.
Price consequently contributed 1 percentage point of growth to the full year.
As we progressed through the year the carryover benefit of price increases taken in 2014 gradually disappeared and price promotional activity became more evident.
Against the same quarter of prior year this increase dynamic adversely affected fourth quarter growth by 1 percentage point.
This was largely driven by increased trade promotional activity in China.
Global volume was 3% lower than prior year.
Growth in North America and Europe didn't fully offset weaker performance in Asia and Latin America.
And the impact of our decision to slow shipments into Venezuela was also significant.
Infant formula product sales for 2015 were in line with prior year on a constant dollar basis.
It follows that we were relatively more challenged within our children's category outside of North America.
The children's category is more price sensitive and prior to reshaping our competitive stats in the third quarter we suffered share losses due to competitors' price promotional activity.
However having addressed the price disadvantage as the cohort of infants age that consume our brand this should help sales of our children's franchise going forward.
We understand recovery of momentum in China and select other emerging markets could take time and we need to properly fund key growth initiatives.
As a consequence the company's investment in advertising and promotion remained strong in the fourth quarter at 15.6% of sales.
This was 190 basis points above prior year's fourth quarter level.
To help fund these investments and offset the impact of foreign exchange we accelerated the implementation of some of our operating expense reductions.
We refer to this initiative as Fuel for Growth.
As a direct result of this focus our operating expenses came in approximately $20 million favorable versus the forecast that underpinned guidance issued in October.
This favorability allowed us to offset the impact of unanticipated dollar strength in the final quarter of the year and still delivered earnings per share slightly above the high end of our guidance range.
We delivered $0.78 in non-GAAP earnings per share for the final quarter of 2015.
As mentioned this was slightly better than expected and allowed us to finish 2015 with $3.44 in non-GAAP earnings per share.
Even as we grappled with adverse dynamics in many of our markets in 2015 I'm pleased that we avoided any temptation to pull back on investment.
We know that continuous innovation is critical to our long-term growth prospects.
Here are some examples of new products we introduced around the world.
In the United States we introduced new and more convenient plastic packaging for our 32-ounce ready-to-feed liquid infant formula building on the success of our 8-ounce launch a couple of years ago.
We also responded quickly to competitive activity by introducing a new formulation of infant formula free from genetically modified raw materials.
Across North America we became the first company to meet newly developed guidelines for premature infant formula.
And in China we introduced a fully imported range of Enfa branded products to complement our locally manufactured range.
These fully imported products now account for 35% of our sales within the mainland.
In Southeast Asia we upgraded our formulations and added increased levels of DHA to our children's products.
We also introduced plastics packaging in several countries and we added ready-to-drink versions to our lineup of Enfa products.
In Latin America we introduced liquid versions of our key infant formula products and in Mexico our Enfagrow Toddler product.
For our powder products we began the introduction of upgraded plastics packaging.
Further over more than 70 years we've worked diligently to develop clinical evidence in support of our specialty portfolio predominantly our Nutramigen allergy brand.
Educating healthcare professionals about Nutramigen's benefits allowed us to grow constant dollar sales double digits in 2015.
As I complete my comments on overall company performance and before I move to discussing our reporting segments in more detail I want to mention that as promised we executed an accelerated share repurchase program in the most recent quarter.
This reflects our commitment to the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Michel will revert to this topic later.
Let me now briefly comment on the performance within each of our reporting segments and I begin with Asia.
Sequentially Asia sales were in line with third quarter with improvements in China offset by lower sales in Thailand and Malaysia.
For fourth quarter constant dollar sales were 10% below the prior-year quarter and full year sales compared unfavorably to 2014 by 8%.
As mentioned sequentially we grew sales in China/Hong Kong by 2% from the third quarter of 2015.
A more aggressive trading start allowed us to stabilize sales of our locally manufactured product line.
Though we've had to increase our investment we're encouraged that prices to consumers appear to have stabilized in the fourth quarter.
At the same time demand for our recently introduced fully imported range continued to grow.
As mentioned earlier sales of this product range now accounts for 35% of our sales in Mainland China and a full 22% of our combined China/Hong Kong business.
As we expand direct shipments of fully imported products into Mainland China we expect to see continued cannibalization of our Hong Kong business.
Such channel shifts may obscure underlying business progress in the near term but ultimately should be favorable to the company overall as we build a stronger more sustainable portfolio with greater reach inside Mainland China.
As mentioned at our Investor Day in October we're committed to make investments in support of our recent introductions.
We're advancing digital marketing capabilities expanding our channel coverage and strengthening our retail chain relationships through focused investments.
Beyond the early sale success with our imported product range; as a further sign our strategy is working we are seeing market share gains in baby stores.
As you know we've also focused on strengthening our presence in business-to-consumer e-commerce.
This represents the fastest growing part of the e-commerce market in China.
And the segment is growing at approximately five times the rate of the rest of the e-commerce channel.
In a sign of our commitment to strengthening our presence in web and app-based commerce we recently signed joint business partnership agreement with Jingdong owner of leading e-commerce like JD.com and Tencent owner of WeChat the leading social app in China.
Under these agreements we agreed to cooperate by sharing data and technology platforms to the mutual benefits of our separate businesses.
These agreements recognize the expertise of each party including Mead Johnson China and we are thrilled to partner with such great companies.
While our China business began to show progress our businesses in Malaysia and Thailand experienced challenges as mentioned earlier.
Both economies are going through a challenging time due to political uncertainty and weak commodity prices.
As a result both consumer and business confidence is reduced.
However despite this backdrop I want to acknowledge that we have not executed as well as expected in either country for much of 2015.
Though we cannot control economic trends we can and will control our execution and we're taking steps to improve performance going forward.
In the meantime we continued to manage trade inventory build carefully in the fourth quarter.
In the third quarter we enhanced our products in Thailand with increased levels of DHA and introduced new packaging including a plastic tub.
Early signs are encouraging with share increasing in the three months following our relaunch.
However it took longer than expected to deplete old inventory in the trade and consequently we chose to address this more aggressively in the most recent quarter.
Having discussed some areas of relative challenge let me now point to our relatively stronger performance in the Philippines.
The Philippines business has delivered solid growth over the past two years.
We've managed to offset foreign exchange impacts with improved pricing.
And we've successfully extended our Lactum children's brand into the infant formula category.
This move gives us exposure to a growing economy beyond our traditional premium price position.
Turning now to Latin America the region delivered constant dollar sales growth of 3% for the full year compared to 2014.
Regional currencies weakened substantially through 2015 with large adverse impact on sales growth in Brazil Argentina Colombia Venezuela and Mexico.
As a consequence reported sales were 13% below prior-year level.
For the fourth quarter excluding Venezuela to where we paused shipments for much of the quarter sales grew 5% on a constant dollar basis over the same quarter of prior year.
Including Venezuela the region sales for fourth quarter 2015 were 4% lower in constant dollars than the same quarter of 2014.
As you can tell our decision to pause shipments to Venezuela was the significant driver of relatively weaker segment performance.
As stated in previous calls we are carefully managing risks associated with our intercompany payables within defined parameters.
In the near term this means matching new shipments to Venezuela to hard currency payments received.
We are actually working with the Venezuelan government to address this challenge in order that we can once again help provide much needed nutrition to children in that country.
Looking at the overall economy of Latin America over the past decade these commodity-driven economies benefited substantially from stronger prices.
Since the collapsing commodity prices Latin America's GDP growth has slowed dramatically.
Countries beyond the obvious example of Brazil that's in recession are grappling with sharp reductions in their growth rates for the first time since 2009.
These macroeconomic conditions coupled with the strengthening dollar have resulted in sharp depreciation of local currencies.
I'd like to provide a little more detail in today's discussion.
And for that purpose I've grouped the region into three sections.
I've excluded Venezuela which I've discussed separately already.
I'll now discuss Mexico the Caribbean and Central America as a distinct area from the Southern Cone area of Brazil and Argentina and finally touch briefly on the Andean region in which we include Peru Ecuador and Colombia.
In Mexico the Caribbean and Central America the Enfa family of premium products grew strongly in constant dollars both sequentially over the third quarter and in full year 2015 and now represents about two-thirds of sales within the area.
Outside of Mexico much of our business in this area is conducted in U.S.
dollars.
This helped partially offset the impact from a decline in the Mexican peso.
That said the Mexican business is our third largest business globally.
And many of you already know our Mexican portfolio augments our global Enfa branded products with two very strong local brands of Milk Modifiers Choco Milk and Cal-C-Tose.
These two Milk Modifier brands gave us a leading edge or a leading share sorry of the large Mexican Milk Modifier market a large category that's however characterized by strong competition from global and local players.
With limited potential to expand consumer penetration competition is tough and occasionally price-based.
These dynamics over the last several years have caused our Milk Modifier brands to grow more slowly than our Enfa-branded infant and children's business.
In 2015 Milk Modifier's net sales declined as we expand trade discounts to protect our competitive position.
This impacted the overall Mexico result adversely.
Our performance in the south cone area was adversely impacted by the economic recession and currency weakness in Brazil.
In Argentina price gains more than covered the impact of currency depreciation.
And across the area we continue to grow our infant formula and toddler sales strongly in local currency.
However in Brazil we also sell the Sustagen brand of Milk Modifiers.
And in this category we show consumers move to cheaper competitive offering and we lost sales as a consequence.
Within the Andean region we saw Colombia deliver strong double-digit growth for both the latest quarter and the full year.
The smaller market of Ecuador also performed well but these encouraging results were offset by challenging retail conditions in Peru.
To wrap up the key drivers for the Latin America full year results are – volume which was lower primarily from our intentional constraint of Venezuela shipments and Mexico Milk Modifier sales reductions; price that was predominantly from the high inflationary markets of Argentina Colombia and Venezuela; and finally foreign exchange that negatively impacted the region.
I'll now turn to our performance in North America and Europe.
In the full year 2015 the North America/Europe segment delivered 4% constant dollar revenue growth over 2014.
Volume grew 1% with price and product mix contributing 3% to our annual growth rate.
In the fourth quarter this segment's sales were in line with the prior year's quarter.
Sequentially as stated earlier sales increased 5% over the third quarter.
With little to no growth in the category in North America our volume growth was realized through market share gains and our Enfagrow Children's business continued double-digit growth.
Our premium price specialty and solutions offerings also grew double digits.
And our Canadian business continued to execute extremely well and exited the year with record-high market shares.
Europe posted its strongest sales and EBIT performance in the last five years though the sales impact was partially offset by our exit from the Russian market early in the year.
Overall 2015 was another strong year for this segment a year in which we saw profit margins expand to approach historic levels.
In many ways this was proof that our decision to maintain investment levels through the 2009 to 2012 economic downturn was the right one.
Turning now to our outlook for 2016 our outlook is broadly similar to that provided at our Investor Day in October.
We expect constant dollar sales to continue to show gradual improvement sequentially through the coming quarters.
But due to tough comparisons from the first half of 2015 we do not expect to report positive revenue growth over same quarter of prior year till the second half of 2016.
For this reason we expect full year 2016 constant dollar sales growth to be modest in the range of 0% to 2%.
Based on current exchange rates we expect currency to reduce sales growth by approximately 600 basis points.
As a result reported sales may decrease by 4% to 6% this year.
We now have a good fix on dairy costs as this item will impact our profit and loss statement through the first seven months or eight months of the year.
Based on this we are comfortable saying that again in 2016 dairy prices would have a favorable impact on our cost of goods.
At our Investor Day event last October we characterized 2016 as a year of transition.
In the context of headwinds from a strengthening dollar we committed to reduce non-demand-creating operating expenses by $60 million in order to reinvest in select growth initiatives and protect earnings growth.
As headwinds from currencies have grown stronger since our October gathering this initiative has become even more central to our strategy and I'm pleased to report we're making good progress and remain confident in our ability to deliver on our cost-reduction ambition.
As mentioned in our press release this morning I believe it is important for us to give you a better picture of the expected evolution in underlying profitability without the polluting effect of currency impact.
To this end let me clarify that we expect to deliver $0.09 to $0.12 constant dollar non-GAAP earnings per share growth.
And based on our assumption around foreign exchange we expect therefore non-GAAP earnings per share when expressed in U.S.
dollars to be in the range of $3.48 to $3.60.
Not included in our estimates for 2016 is any additional benefits that might accrue from a review of efficiency and productivity opportunities within our demand-generating investments.
Such a review is currently scheduled for mid-2016.
I must point out that we remain highly focused on further – sorry we must – we remain highly exposed to the further strengthening of the dollar or selective weakening in foreign currencies.
Anticipating that we may continue to see some variability in exchange rates through the year we've decided to provide you with a reconciliation to growth in non-GAAP constant dollar earnings per share.
I'll now hand the call over to Michel who will provide some more details on our fourth quarter and full year financials.
Michel will also elaborate on our guidance for 2016.
And upon the completion of his prepared remarks I'll return with some summary remarks before we open the lines to questions.
Michel over to you.
Thank you Kasper and good morning everyone.
Today I will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results.
I will then briefly highlight segment results and conclude with a summary of our 2016 guidance.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on the non-GAAP financial results.
References to currency impacts or the effects of currency fluctuations generally refer to the impact on the translation of local currency financial statements into U.S.
dollars.
Let me start with sales.
Kasper addressed constant-dollar sales growth.
I will focus more on the foreign exchange impact.
As you can see from slide 3 fourth quarter sales on a reported basis were 12% below the prior year quarter.
Adverse foreign exchange rates contributed to a decline of 6% a similar rate to that seen in the third quarter.
For the full year sales on a reported basis were 8% below last year.
The adverse foreign exchange impact on sales was 6% or $229 million.
On slide 4 we have summarized the impact of foreign exchange per quarter.
The U.S.
dollar continued to strengthen in the fourth quarter and its effect on translation of global currency negatively impact all reporting segments.
Over one-third of the negative currency impact in the fourth quarter are from the Mexican peso and the Chinese renminbi.
The balance of the foreign exchange impact was widespread especially from our large markets like Canada Malaysia and Thailand.
We expect to see additional adverse foreign exchange impact in 2016 based on the continued strengthening of the dollar across a very broad basket of currencies.
I'll address this foreign exchange impact in the EPS guidance section as well.
I'll now move on to factors that impacted our gross margin on slide 5.
Gross margin was 63.9% in the fourth quarter up 200 basis points from the same quarter of 2014.
Lower dairy costs drove the majority of the improvement.
However this benefit was cut in half by the adverse foreign exchange impacts.
Productivity improvements offset other commodity increases and higher manufacturing costs.
In the last earnings call we highlighted three factors that would result in a sequential gross margin decrease.
That's benefit from new prices increases increased trade investment especially China and our annual U.S.
plant shutdown.
These factors came in as expected during the fourth quarter.
On a full-year basis gross margin was 64.6% which is 270 basis points improvement versus the prior year mainly due to lower dairy costs which benefited all segments.
Supply chain productivity delivered approximately 5% of savings in cost of goods sold which mitigated other costs as noted previously.
Moving on to operating expenses on slide number 6.
Our advertising and promotion spending was 15.6% of sales in the fourth quarter compared to 13.7% in the prior-year quarter.
This was an increase of 7% on a constant dollar basis.
A&amp;P investment in the fourth quarter includes support for China's fully imported products TV media for the U.S.
Children business and support for new product launches like the 32-ounce liquid and non-GMO product line that Kasper described earlier.
SG&amp;A on a constant dollar basis was 6% or $14 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2014.
Savings were a result of lower incentive compensation and a reduction in corporate costs partly driven by our Fuel for Growth initiatives.
SG&amp;A on a full year basis were flat compared to 2014 on a constant dollar basis.
As you can see from slide 7 our cost related to research and development marketing and G&amp;A decreased by 3% in 2015 versus 2014 on a constant dollar basis.
When comparing the second half year 2015 to the first half year 2015 the corporate support function decreased 8% mainly driven by the Fuel for Growth program.
In the fourth quarter we made the first wave of employee reductions.
Compared to June 2015 we reduced approximately 200 FTEs mainly within the corporate support functions where we reduced 18% of our head count.
We eliminated some outside services and initiated vendor negotiations for key services.
The head count and outside services actions taken to-date have allowed us to secure most of our $60 million Fuel for Growth target for 2016.
We are very comfortable to deliver this year's savings.
Turning now to slide 8.
On a constant dollar basis the fourth quarter EBIT was 3% below the prior year quarter and the full year EBIT was in line with 2014.
Including currency impact EBIT was down 13% in the fourth quarter and down 7% for the full year.
The EBIT margin as a percentage of sales for the fourth quarter was slightly lower than the prior year quarter as continued investments were not fully offset by the higher gross margin.
EBIT margin as a percentage of sale for the full year increased by 30 basis points.
I will now discuss EBIT for each segment starting with Asia on slide 9.
In Q4 Asia delivered EBIT of $140 million a decrease of 24% on a constant dollar basis.
On a reported basis EBIT was 28% lower mainly due to impact of the Chinese renminbi.
EBIT margin at 30% was lower than the fourth quarter 2014 and the third quarter 2015.
As we continue to invest especially in China these investments included price promotions on the locally manufactured products to protect competitiveness along with A&amp;P support for the fully imported product line introduced earlier this year.
As Kasper mentioned Greater China sales improved sequentially as a result of these investments.
For the full year the Asia EBIT margin at 33% remains the highest of our three segments.
However the EBIT margin was lower than in 2014 as lower sales and high demand generation investments were not fully offset by the dairy benefit.
Latin America on slide number 10 delivered EBIT of $34 million in the fourth quarter an increase of 15% on a constant dollar basis.
On a reported basis EBIT declined 26% as the region continued to have a large negative impact from currencies most notably the Mexican peso.
If we exclude the impact of Venezuela where we intentionally reduced shipments the segment's reported EBIT dollars for 2015 would have been in line with 2014 for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
For the full year Latin America EBIT margin improved slightly to 23.1%.
Lower dairy cost more than offset the impact of the higher investments.
Let me address North America and Europe on slide 11.
For the fourth quarter EBIT was $97 million.
An increase of 14% on a constant dollar basis and 8% on a reported basis.
In the midst of a tough top line comparison gross margin continued to be strong.
The team managed to maintain operating expense in line with the prior year quarter while increasing A&amp;P by 9% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year the North America/European EBIT margin was 28% benefiting primarily from gross margin.
I will now address our financial results from EBIT to net results on slide number 12.
The fourth quarter interest expense increased to approximately $22 million reflecting the issuance of the new $1.5 billion notes to finance the share repurchase programs.
During our October earnings call we announced a new share repurchase program of $1.5 billion of the company's common stock with $1 billion in the form of an accelerated share repurchase or ASR.
The ASR was executed after the close of the business on that same day.
Under the accelerated share repurchase program 10.7 million shares of stock were delivered in the quarter.
Following this portion of the ASR the average number of shares in the fourth quarter were 189.8 million.
As of December 31 2015 the outstanding shares were 186.4 million.
It is expected that additional shares will be delivered in 2016 under the current ASR program.
The ASR program was initially financed by a $1 billion term loan shortly thereafter refinanced by the issuance of notes $750 million five-year note at a rate of 3% and $750 million 10-year note at a rate of 4.125%.
Taxes; for 2015 our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 24.8% compared to 22.5% in 2014.
The 2014 rate was unusually low as a result of a $0.05 per share non-recurring tax benefit.
Also the 2015 ETR was also higher as a result of an unfavorable change in geographic earnings mix.
Let me briefly address our EPS on slide 13.
Non-GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.78 a decline of $0.14 versus the prior year quarter.
Sales negatively impacted EPS by $0.16 offset by gross margin benefit.
Foreign exchange adversely impacted EPS by $0.10.
Full-year non-GAAP EPS was $3.44 slightly above the high end of our guidance.
So for the prior year EPS declined by $0.30.
The foreign exchange alone negatively impacting EPS by $0.26.
The sales decline impacted EPS by $0.26 as well.
Gross margin benefit was offset by additional A&amp;P investments to support our innovation especially our investments in China.
Specified items; for 2015 specified items were $45 million or $0.17.
The largest charge was $25 million.
This occurred in the fourth quarter and was related to a restructuring provision for our Fuel for Growth productivity program.
This was in line with expectations we highlighted in our third quarter earnings call.
Including these specified items EPS on a non-GAAP basis was $3.27.
Let me finish the 2015 discussion with a high-level overview of the cash flow and balance sheet.
Despite the challenging operating environment we generated strong cash flow which further strengthened our balance sheet.
You can see from slide 14 free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $726 million during 2015 up 20% from the prior year.
For 2015 capital expenditures were $174 million consistent with our long-term goal of about 4% of sales.
The most significant capital investment were to expand capacity at our European plant to support demand for the new China fully-imported product line and in the U.S.
to support new liquids manufacturing.
Depreciation and amortization expenses was $99 million for the full year.
For the full year 2015 we increased our dividends by 10% to $1.65 per share resulting in a total dividend payment of $326 million.
The total payout ratio was close to 50% of our net results.
Our cash balance as of December 31 was $1.7 billion an increase of approximately $400 million compared to December 2014 nearly 90% of our cash is outside the United States.
Our net debt position as of December 31 was less than $1.3 billion.
I will now wrap up with a summary of our 2016 guidance on a non-GAAP basis on slide 15.
We forecast constant dollar sales in the range of 0% to 2% this year versus 2015 assuming exchange rate remain at the current levels this would translate into 2016 sales 4% to 6% below the prior year on a reported basis.
Please note that we expect tougher sales comparison in the first half of 2016 versus 2015.
This is due in part to more favorable performance seen in China especially in the first quarter of 2015.
Constant dollar sales in Q1 2016 are expected to be in line or slightly higher above the Q4 2015 performance.
The company expects a positive trend in the second half of 2016 on a constant dollar basis.
We expect higher investments in A&amp;P in the first half of 2016.
As a result we expect growth of non-GAAP EPS towards the second half of 2016.
Please note that quarter one 2016 non-GAAP EPS will have a tough comparison.
From an EPS guidance perspective there are several key factors to consider.
We expect that our gross margins will be around 64% similar to the fourth quarter 2015 level.
We entered into dairy contracts at attractive prices to secure more than 80% of our expected 2016 dairy needs.
Nearly all of the expected $60 million Fuel for Growth savings will be reinvested in demand-generating activities to enable long-term market share improvement.
The benefit of all share repurchased in 2015 including the ASR program net of interest expense is expected to be an $0.11 benefit per share.
EPS guidance includes an annual estimated adverse impact of currency rates as of January 2016 which is expected to be approximately $0.40 per share.
Another 1% strengthening of the dollar against all currencies where we operate would lead to a further reduction in EPS of about $0.04 per share on a full year basis just from translation.
Taking all of this into account non-GAAP EPS guidance is expected to be in the range of $3.48 to $3.60 excluding specified items.
On a constant dollar basis non-GAAP EPS guidance is expected to grow 9% to 12%.
This excludes $0.11 from the benefit of the share repurchase program in 2015.
The company expects to incur charges of approximately $25 million to $30 million associated with the Fuel for Growth program in 2016.
Specified items including charges related to Fuel for Growth are expected to be approximately $0.12 per share.
Therefore GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.36 to $3.48 excluding future costs related to mark-to-market pension adjustments which are not reflected in the guidance.
This concludes my discussion of our quarter four and full year 2015 financial results.
Thanks again for your time this morning.
And with that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thank you Michel.
Let me briefly provide some summary remarks before we open the lines to your questions.
I'm proud of many of the operational adjustments we made in the second half of 2015 when we were faced with significant change.
Likewise I feel good that our key strategies are paying off.
Our multi-year investment in the United States was made because we believed in the potential of that market.
Sales and margins have now rebounded and are helping us to overcome challenges abroad.
Likewise our decision to reshape our portfolio in China and focus on new growing sales channels is showing signs of paying off.
Faced with macroeconomic challenges we are making adjustments in other markets too.
Change is inevitable and in many ways businesses should be judged by how well they adjust and adapt.
And I'm confident that we'll look back at the end of this year able to acknowledge that we did this quite well.
Through last year I repeatedly pointed to four important factors that critically influenced company performance.
To remind you all I'm referring to currency movements dairy cost evolution our ability to evolve our strategy and portfolio in China and our momentum in North America particularly in the United States.
All of these four variables remain as relevant in 2016 as they were to our performance in 2015.
But I should add pricing to the list.
Our ability to offset partially or in full foreign exchange weakness with price increases will be very important.
I'd add that I see some encouraging signs that price increases will become easier as we move through the year.
I'll close with the message that we'll continue to provide clear visibility on the impact of foreign exchange as we move through 2016.
We'll do so by providing updates on both sales and profit growth net of foreign exchange in addition to our traditional non-GAAP earnings per share numbers.
We hope you'll find this informative.
Operators I'd now like to open the lines to questions.
And because our prepared remarks have taken longer than anticipated we are prepared to go a few minutes over if the questions merit doing so.
Operator over to you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we are ready to open the lines up for your questions.
Please stand by for your first question.
Your first question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi Good morning.
This is Alexis Borden in for David.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Hi Alexis.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So question on China.
Kasper I appreciate your China comments in your prepared remarks still I'd like to ask this bigger picture.
Is your China strategy working? What evidence can you point us to? And are your China market shares increasing? And I also have a follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Well I think I tried to provide some metrics that would hopefully support my statement that I believe our strategy is working.
I think we introduced the fully imported line of products into China so that towards the back half really of the second quarter and the fact that this product line is now already making up 35% of our sales in the mainland and 22% of our sales in the combined China/Hong Kong business I think it's fairly impressive progress.
I want to remind you also that of the message we gave on our Investor Day that we have confirmed our intention to enter the super high premium category some time in 2016.
I'm sure you can understand that for competitive reasons I'm not prepared to tell you what our planned timing is but it goes without saying that we obviously have one.
So I feel quite good about that.
We now – if I add the Hong Kong business and our fully imported line together we've now got more than half of our sales in the China/Hong Kong business coming out of our Netherlands facility and therefore meeting consumer desire for imported quality.
So I think we're managing that transition quite well.
I'm satisfied with the progress we are making in baby stores also we – through much of last year we discussed the fact that we were under indexing in baby stores which is one of the faster growing sales channels.
But as of late we've seen some fairly satisfactory improvements to our market shares in this channel.
And I'm sure we'll continue to do so going forward.
Great.
Alexis just for the time constraints that we have I'd like to go on to the next analyst.
Thank you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure.
No problem.
Operator? Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane Bank of America.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Good morning Bryan.
So just one question.
I think in 2015 in certain markets you were able to price to try to take – raise prices in order to try to offset some of the negative effects of foreign exchange.
I guess in 2016 as you look at some of these markets that you've mentioned in terms of where there's currency volatility does the cost savings that you're generating this year take some of the pressure off or give you more flexibility in not needing necessarily to try to price for – to offset the currency or are you still going to be looking to sort of price in some of these markets where the currencies have moved so dramatically? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Bryan thanks for the question.
I think we will definitely look to price in these markets.
I think as you heard us talk about we were quite some distance off managing to cover the impact of foreign exchange weakness through price in 2015 so that'll be a continued challenge or task for us as we go through 2016.
As I was trying to indicate I think the pricing environment will become somewhat more friendly.
What we saw in 2015 was that there were still – particularly I would say in Asia there were still governments in Asia that were very resistant to price increases in our sector as they still focused very much on kind of inflationary pressure or perceived inflationary pressure which I think we all know was really a threat that evaporated some time back in 2014.
And they would repeatedly point to the fact that we were seeing significant upside from dairy costs coming down as we discussed price increases.
I think now that dairy prices have stabilized I believe that as both us and our competitors lap the low-dairy costs it will become a little bit more straightforward to raise prices.
But we obviously have to do that in a responsible manner.
And we have to assess that in the context of general price inflation and wage inflation in the markets we operate in.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Good morning Amit.
Good morning.
Kasper without asking you to speculate on the timing of it we've heard that there – that the Chinese government is looking at changing the tariff regulation for cross-border trade online? On a wider context how do you think about it? How you're positioned in the B2C channels and if there is incremental tax on online how would that impact your positioning in that channel? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Well I think there are as it relates to China I expect that we're going to see regulatory adjustments coming some time in 2016.
I don't want to speculate on whether those regulatory adjustments will address all of the imbalances that we are seeing currently in China but I believe that they will begin to address some of them.
At the moment it's clear that inadvertently the China regulations have created a tilted playing field that is very much tilting in favor of imported products sold through e-commerce.
I don't believe that that was the intention of either the regulators or the China government at large and I think they will find ways to address that.
I also think that they remain concerned about the large number of small brands that have been created in China that really lack the expertise or the resources to guarantee consumer quality and I think that will be addressed.
So I think you're going to see a whole slew of attempts at least by regulators to get at some of these issues through this year.
But since you gave me a free pass on the timing I'll probably take advantage of that Amit.
Good.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Operator to the next.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Michel I think if I'm not wrong that Mead Johnson locked in a bit more milk supply than usual this early in the year.
I know it sometimes goes back and forth and it's hard to tell but it feels like it's a little more than usual.
So first correct me if I'm wrong on that.
And second if that's correct is that more of a tactical move just based on where milk costs and prices are or is it more of a strategic change that you'd like to implement whereby you maybe get a little more visibility there and a little more ability to price in line with where you think your cost (56:55) will be? Yes.
I think it is correct.
It's a higher level than we used to have.
And it's also true that we've taken that position on purpose given the current benefits that we see.
I don't like too much volatility into the P&amp;L so nobody does that.
So the more you can control the better that is.
And this was one of the actions we have taken.
Okay.
So should I interpret that as – I'm trying to figuring out whether that's more tactical or strategic and I kind of heard both in there? Correct.
Okay.
I'll leave it at that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Kasper I wanted to ask about North America.
So you mentioned the margins being close to record levels here.
How much of the margin expansion over the past two years is a function of the commodity cost benefits that are more temporary versus maybe something more structural in terms of the cost savings or portfolio mix? Should we think of this high 20s level as kind of a new normal for the business? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Yeah.
John I don't think – if I said record levels I misspoke.
I think I said historic levels.
So – but it may go back to days before we were a public company.
So you may have imperfect visibility.
I guess what I was trying to indicate was that I believe that these levels of profitability in the North American business are sustainable to put it sort of candidly.
It's not inconsistent with where we have been.
And what we see in the North American business is that we get a lot of leverage on both sales and volume growth in that business.
So put another way our marginal costs are very low in that business and hence we see big swings in profitability as the sales move up and down.
So I'm quite comfortable.
I feel good about where the margins are and I think we've got other parts of our global portfolio where we are working in difficult trading environments and then that results in perhaps in margin pressure.
So it's quite rewarding to see that this part of our portfolio has the opposite dynamic playing in its favor.
Great.
Thank you Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Good morning Michael.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit more about your higher investments in China and how much of that is trade spending or discounting versus A&amp;P investments? And then also just update your timing.
You said at the Investor Day you thought you had about three or four more quarters of discounting pressure there.
Is that still your view? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Our investments in China primarily in the – I would say in the second half of 2015 were largely focused on changing our trading profile.
That means matching both competitors' pricing and also matching their general profile with the retail trade.
As we go forward and we look at 2016 we will obviously invest behind our new growth initiatives view.
So we expected that that will lead to some increase in both of those lines.
Both the trade support and the advertising and promotional expense.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Hi Matt.
Hi.
Kasper or Michel I just wanted to clarify a bit further on the EPS guidance and I joined a bit late so I may have missed an aspect of the explanation but you've maintained the expectation of mid-single digit EPS growth despite the FX headwind being significantly higher.
So just curious what the delta was over the past few months that's giving you more confidence in the constant currency outlook or sort of margin flexibility during 2016.
Yeah.
I mean your understanding is correct.
We indicated that investment as a mid-single digit and that is in line on what we're confirming now.
Despite the fact that we will have a higher headwind from currencies.
I indicated in the Investors Day that at that point of time foreign exchange impact would have been around $0.15.
Right now we are looking at based on current spot rates we're looking at $0.40 impact from currencies.
So we clearly look into how we can mitigate that to still deliver mid-single digit growth.
On one hand side like Kasper indicated we clearly look into pricing because that's an area where we think we need to be very cautious to see what can we do in certain markets that's one.
Two I highlighted specifically and refer most of the earlier question on dairy benefits we've secured 80% which is higher than we expected also in quarter three so that's one of the what we call tactical and strategical initiatives to secure the benefit of wide volatility.
And thirdly like Kasper also indicated we are clearly starting further assessment to see what can we do in terms of demand investments.
And that will be leaning more towards mid of this year.
So all of these initiatives we accelerated actually and we took actions to mitigate the higher foreign exchange exposure.
Okay.
So it's more the actions you just mentioned as opposed to further acceleration of Fuel for Growth savings? Well it is.
It is a combination right.
I just said it is the Fuel for Growth savings that's confirmed significantly confirmed so that wasn't the case yet in full in Investors Day.
But secondly like I said we're also going further with further assessment in demand investment.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks Michel.
Your next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
Thank you for the call.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Good morning Jason.
Good morning.
Hope all is well.
A quick housekeeping question.
I think that I heard you say that in the first quarter that the sales on constant currency would be flat to maybe up 2% (1:04:05) versus the fourth quarter of 2015.
Can you confirm that I heard that right? And also just mathematically as I'm looking at my model it seems to suggest that sales could be down close to 20% in the first quarter.
Is that right? And if so where – what should we be braced for in terms of pockets of sort of outsized weakness in the first quarter? Well I think – let me try and repeat what we said.
I said in my prepared remarks that we expect to see sequential quarterly improvement in sales in constant dollar sales.
So that would translate into sales in the first quarter I suppose being at or above the level in the fourth quarter.
And that's with currency? No that was in constant dollars.
Okay.
I'll try to get clarification with Kathy offline on that one then and I'll pass it on for now.
Thank you.
I think for the full year we will clearly expect to see adverse currency impact.
I think we said Jason that we expect about a 600 basis point adverse impact from foreign exchange and we also said that we had based that on basically the current exchange rates as of this month.
So that would stand to reason that that 600 basis points in adverse impact would start at the beginning of the year.
Yeah exactly.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
This is kind of a follow-up to Matthew's question.
I mean if you do the math the foreign exchange headwind is significantly more than what you thought in October and – but you're kind of maintaining I think the same guidance you had before and that guidance implies quite a bit of growth in the core business in order to be achievable.
You mentioned pricing and that's probably the tool that you would use in unlocking in dairy although I think if you've locked in I'm not sure how that's a benefit from October.
So Michel maybe if you could help me just a little bit more.
Don't you have to push the pricing lever harder than you thought in October in order to achieve this guidance or are there other levers I'm not aware of? Well it is indeed in combination of price mix what we need to look into country mix but yeah I mean it's – price is a component that is higher than we indicated – that we anticipated in quarter three.
And how is that – is it achievable given the competitive environment or does something have to change in the competitive environment in order for that to happen? Look part of that is driven by certain new innovation rollouts that we're having scheduled.
So we're trying to combine that as much as possible to take price further than initially thought.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess let me ask about promotion for a second.
Back at our conference in Paris Kasper you talked about promotion being kind of the initial signs of being more concerned about it in China.
And then I guess it broadened out into Latin America and other regions.
So I guess it's been a long call but just so I frame it did you kind of end the end 2015 with what I think you had dubbed kind of irrational behavior on the part of competition? Was that kind of sequentially flat or did it get worse? And kind of what assumptions are you making around promotion into 2016? And I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> Yeah Eric.
It's an excellent question and – but you caught my comments correctly.
I indicated that we've seen the environment stabilize.
So there's still – I would not say it has improved but the environment has stabilized and I think having now entered the fray so to speak in order to protect our competitive position we saw that pay off in terms of stabilizing and even improving our underlying sales performance in the fourth quarter.
So yeah I feel the environment including in China is now a little bit more stable but it's clearly stable at a much higher level of promotion than say where we were a couple of years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> And looking into 2016? Chief Executive Officer and Director</span></strong> We expect that the environment will remain stable in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from – I'm sorry? Operator sorry.
I just want to say we have time for one more call.
So the one that you're about to place in will be the last.
Your last question comes from David Hayes with Nomura.
Good morning all.
Thank you.
Just trying to pick up on the compensation benefit shift.
You obviously made the point that the margin benefited I think particularly back end of the year in terms of the compensation the variable compensation I guess reversing to some extent through the year in terms of the accruals that you might have taken beginning of the year.
So the question is on that one can you quantify the impacts of that variable comp dropping out? And then secondly I guess more importantly as you look into next year – obviously you talked about it more this year you talked about it being a transition year or a transformational year would you expect that compensation to come back into the numbers or is the organization effectively not going to pay that variable pay until the performance overall for the group steps up back to the previous levels? Thanks very much.
Yeah.
In this compensation accruals dropped in the year 2015 given the lower performance which had an estimated impact of around $30 million.
The – if you looked at the numbers for next year yes we've put it back to normal parking levels.
So those ones are included in the numbers that we have provided you for guidance.
Okay.
So hitting in the guidance you'd have that $30 million come back in but that's included in the margin (1:11:13).
That's included in the numbers yes.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks Michel.
Operator I think this closes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.