Greetings and welcome to the McCormick's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Joyce Brooks Vice President Investor Relations for McCormick.
Thank you.
Ms.
Brooks you may begin.
Good morning to everyone on today's call and to those joining us by webcast.
The purpose of our call is to provide an update on our business review McCormick's first quarter financial results and share our latest 2011 outlook.
We have posted a set of slides to accompany today's call at our website ir.mccormick.com.
Joining us for the call are Alan Wilson Chairman President and CEO; and Gordon Stetz Executive Vice President and CFO.
Alan will begin with an update on the business environment and progress with our growth initiative.
Gordon will follow with a review of our financial results and 2011 outlook.
After that we look forward to discussing your questions.
As a reminder our presentation today contains projections and other forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other factors.
In addition certain information that we will present today are non-GAAP measures.
This includes 2010 results that exclude items affecting comparability.
We present this non-GAAP information for comparative purposes alongside the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found in the presentation slides for our call.
It is now my pleasure to turn the discussion over to Alan.
Thanks Joyce.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Turmoil in Northern Africa and the Middle East spikes in the price of food and fuel and the devastating earthquake in Japan have added to consumer and business uncertainty in the first part of 2011.
In the face of this uncertainty our first quarter results demonstrate that we're operating effectively in a challenging environment.
The biggest challenge we faced heading into 2011 was the unprecedented increase in the cost of spices and herbs along with higher costs for commodities such as wheat and soybean oil and increases in plastics and other packaging materials.
As we shared in our January call we expect input cost inflation to be in the 7% to 8% range this year.
For our Consumer business we now largely have our 2011 pricing actions in place in each of our major markets.
It's too early to fully assess the 2011 and longer-term impact of these higher prices on store takeaway.
Keep in mind that we took similar increases in both the brand and the private label products that we supply.
A number of branded competitors have also taken pricing actions.
However we've seen a lag in higher shelf prices for private label products in certain markets including the U.S.
and the U.K.
In the second quarter we have solid marketing programs to support grilling as well as programs to reinforce the value of our products to consumers.
In our Industrial business we've maintained our pricing protocol with customers where we passed through higher costs on a periodic basis.
Our effective pass-through of higher costs together with cost savings from our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement program CCI are evident in the profit results from this part of our business.
In fact gross profit margin across both businesses was up in the first quarter as Gordon will discuss.
While higher pricing added to top line growth we had some pressure on our sales volume in the first quarter.
As we discussed in our January call an estimated $10 million shifted from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010 as certain U.S.
retail customers purchased product in advance of our price increase.
As illustrated on Slides 5 and 6 this shift lowered our first quarter sales 1% for the total company and 3% for the Consumer business in the Americas.
Including the impact of this 3% headwind sales for our Consumer business in the Americas rose 3%.
Our pricing actions contributed to this growth along with unit increases in branded products that included our Slow Cooker Seasoning Mixes Zatarain’s items Grill Mates and warehouse club products.
These increases were offset in part by the shift in sales during the first quarter.
With this impact behind us we expect the growth rate for our Americas Consumer business to strengthen for the balance of 2011.
The other source of pressure this quarter was in the Europe Middle East and Africa region EMEA.
In this region our Industrial business team has achieved the fourth consecutive quarter of mid-single digit or higher sales growth.
In recent years we've strengthened our leadership team and invested in our product innovation capabilities.
These investments are paying off with increased sales in 2011 to both food manufacturers and the quick service restaurant channel.
However our Consumer business has been impacted by the economic and competitive conditions in EMEA with first quarter sales in local currency down 3%.
As we recorded throughout 2010 sales have been weak in our smaller markets.
This quarter we also had flat sales in the U.K.
and a slight decline in France.
In these markets we're facing heightened competition at a time when consumers remain under economic pressure.
In response to this situation we have three actions underway.
First we're going to redirect a portion of our marketing funds toward promotional activity to deliver value to the consumer.
Second accelerate the rollout of our 2011 new products.
We view product innovation as a key differentiator between the brand and private label.
Third improve the in-store merchandising of our brands including the rollout of our attractive new Vahiné merchandising display in France and in the U.K.
secondary placement of Schwartz products.
We remain committed to growing our business in Europe.
Consumer demand for spices and seasonings continues to grow with the latest 52 weeks store takeaway data showing an average unit increase of 3% across our markets in Europe.
With Schwartz Ducros and Vahiné we have three leading brands that over time can bring the product innovation merchandising ideas and marketing support to drive our sales in the entire category.
I'll begin my remarks by stating that we are operating effectively in a tough environment.
Behind this message are a few more points that deserve mention this morning.
First is our progress with CCI.
Under the leadership of our CCI champions throughout the business employees are engaged in projects to reduce our material and production costs through supply-chain initiatives as well as to lower our SG&amp;A expenses.
I am confident that we will deliver our 2011 cost savings target of at least $40 million.
And second I want to point to the role of emerging markets in our growth.
Those of you who are able to join our presentation at CAGNY heard this discussed this more fully.
Slide 9 is the slide we show to illustrate the five-year sales increase we achieved in our consolidated business alongside the increase in sales for our unconsolidated operations during the same period.
Early in 2011 our activity in emerging markets is already a clear driver of results.
In Mexico we grew sales of our consolidated Industrial business 15% in local currency which supplies products not only in Mexico but for parts of Central and South America.
Across both Consumer and Industrial businesses sales in China rose 7% in local currency.
Income from consolidated operations led by Mexico and our new joint venture in India rose 25% to $8 million accounting for 10% of net income this quarter.
As I conclude my comments about operating in a challenging environment I want to recognize our 7 500 employees around the world.
Individually each of them plays an important role in our success.
Together we are a powerful team one that's driven to deliver high performance.
Underpinning all these initiatives our longer-term financial performance and increased shareholder value is our passion for flavor in a proven growth strategy invest in the business to drive sales and profits and fuel these investments with improved margins.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Gordon to discuss our first quarter financial results in more detail and to provide our latest 2011 outlook.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results are a solid start to our 2011 fiscal year.
However we recognize these results varied a bit from our guidance for the full year.
We grew sales 3% in local currency.
We expect this growth rate to accelerate in the upcoming quarters as we get beyond the impact of the sales shift and with pricing actions now in place.
First quarter gross profit margin and income from unconsolidated operations were both ahead of our full year guidance although we expect these to moderate as we head into the second quarter.
This performance added up to a 12% increase in earnings per share a result that is above our expected growth rate for 2011.
I'll discuss our latest guidance more fully toward the end of my remarks.
I want to first discuss some details behind our first quarter results.
Starting at the top line pricing was the major driver behind our increase in total company sales.
We reported an increase of 3% from pricing in the first quarter.
Alan went through the factors that hampered our increase in volume and product mix for the total business but let's take a closer look at each of our two segments.
As indicated on Slide 14 in the Americas region we grew Consumer business sales 3% as a result of higher pricing.
This is the part of our business that was affected by the sales shift from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010.
This shift lowered sales in the first quarter of 2011 by 3%.
This 3% decline was offset by a 3% increase in volume and product mix driven largely by higher unit sales of Slow Cooker Seasoning Mixes Zatarain’s branded items and our Grill Mates line as well as increased sales to warehouse clubs in both the U.S.
and Canada.
Consumer sales in EMEA declined 10% from the year-ago quarter with a 3% decrease in local currency.
And the impact of higher pricing was more than offset by lower volume and product mix.
We continue to face weakness in our smaller markets largely as a result of a difficult economy and competitive conditions.
These markets account for about 20% of EMEA sales.
Following a stronger performance in 2010 we saw a downturn this quarter in the U.K.
in France and as Alan described are taking actions to drive sales of our leading brands in Europe.
In the Asia-Pacific region Consumer business sales rose 11% and in local currency were up 5%.
This result was led by a 9% increase in China in local currency with higher condiment sales driven by new products greater market penetration and increased consumer demand.
Operating income for our Consumer business was $87 million a 9% increase from the first quarter of 2010.
We achieved this increase largely through CCI cost savings and a favorable mix of business.
During this period brand marketing support was up $3 million with stepped-up advertising behind our core products including our antioxidant message and in support of our Zatarain’s brand.
We also had a favorable comparison to the first quarter of 2010 when we recorded $2 million of product recall costs related to an ingredient from a third-party supplier that affected us and a number of other food companies.
Let's take a look at the sales performance for our Industrial business on Slide 15.
Industrial sales in the Americas grew 7% and in local currency were up 6% with increases in both volume and product mix and in pricing.
Increased demand for our spices and seasonings was led by food manufacturers in both the U.S.
and Canada.
This included the product innovation activity that you heard about from packaged food companies at this year's CAGNY conference.
Sales to the food service industry were comparable to the first quarter of 2010.
We grew sales of branded food service items with certain distributors and expect sales to quick service restaurants to accelerate next quarter with new product launches and distribution gains.
Our Industrial business in EMEA posted another consecutive quarter of strong sales growth.
We grew first quarter sales 3% and in local currency 4%.
Volume and product mix was the primary driver of the increase with about a third of the increase coming from pricing.
Demand from quick service restaurants continues to be the key sales driver in this region.
In the Asia-Pacific region Industrial business sales rose 5% but declined 1% in local currency.
In this region quick service restaurants are the largest part of our business.
Heading into 2011 we are seeing these customers shifting emphasis to core items rather than limited time offers and other innovation.
Across all regions operating income for our Industrial business rose 12% to $24 million in the first quarter.
This increase was due to higher sales and CCI cost savings which were offset in part by a $2 million increase in marketing and product development behind our U.S.
branded food service products.
Also for this part of our business we recorded $3 million of the product recall costs in the first quarter of 2010.
For the total business operating income rose 10%.
In addition to higher sales gross profit margin improvement was an important part of this increase rising 130 basis points to 41.9%.
For the full year we expect to offset higher material costs with a combination of pricing actions and CCI cost savings.
However the net impact of these factors had an unfavorable impact on gross profit margin in the first quarter of this fiscal year.
In addition about half of the 130-basis-point increase was the result of our comparison to the first quarter 2010 when gross profit margin included the unfavorable impact of the recall costs.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales rose 40 basis points primarily due to a 12% increase in brand marketing support.
Turning to taxes with favorable discrete tax items our rate for the quarter was 30.3% below our guidance for 2011 which remains at 31%.
Income from unconsolidated operations was an important contributor to profit for the quarter.
As Alan described McCormick de Mexico had good performance and we had the added benefit of our Eastern joint venture in India.
However as those who listened to our January call know we expect income from unconsolidated operations to be down slightly for the full year.
As we head into the second quarter we continue to expect a greater headwind from higher costs for soybean oil and other key materials.
At the bottom line as shown on Slide 17 earnings per share was $0.57 compared to $0.51 in the first quarter of the prior year.
The majority of this $0.06 increase came from higher operating income with another $0.01 from the increased income from unconsolidated operations.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement our debt ratios remain close to our long-term targets.
During the quarter we spent $50 million to repurchase 1.1 million shares at an average cost of $45.89.
At the end of February $309 million remained on our current share repurchase authorization.
Our short-term borrowings in the first quarter of 2011 were up when compared to the first quarter of 2010 due to an increase in working capital.
While our accounts receivable collections improved we had a significant increase in inventory.
As indicated in this morning's press release the primary reasons for this increase were higher material costs inventory positions and new products and new distribution.
As you would expect the dollar value of our inventory has risen along with the increased cost of raw and packaging material.
Also given recent world events and potential supply issues we have taken certain positions of spices and herbs to assure a steady supply of high-quality products for our customers.
A third factor I want to point to is an increase in inventory to support the launch of new products and in support of new distribution for products like Zatarain's frozen items and our McCormick brand mayonnaise imported into the U.S.
from our joint venture in Mexico.
In the face of these increases we remain committed to lowering inventory.
One initiative currently underway is the implementation of new inventory management processes.
We are nearing completion of a transition in North America and our next step will be to take these new processes to other parts of our business.
McCormick profit is keeping our focus on inventory and other components of working capital as it rewards our employees for improving our asset utilization and lowering our cash conversion cycle.
Let me wrap up with our latest financial outlook for 2011.
Our sales projection remains 5% to 7% in local currency.
Volume and product mix are expected to add 2% to 4% driven by product innovation brand marketing and new distribution.
We expect our pricing actions to add 3% to sales.
And third favorable currency rates are expected to add 1% based on today's exchange rates.
Turning to gross profit margin our first quarter result was ahead of our guidance for the full year.
We continue to expect a slight decline in gross profit margin in 2011 based on our current projections of material cost increases CCI savings and pricing actions.
Similarly while income from unconsolidated operations is off to a strong start we remain cautious about the impact of higher material costs in Mexico.
We reaffirm our estimate for a slight decline on this line of the income statement for 2011.
At the bottom line our estimated EPS remains $2.80 to $2.85.
This compares to a 2010 earnings per share of $2.75 and adjusted earnings per share of $2.65 which excludes the reversal of a significant tax accrual.
Let me summarize our remarks by stating that we are pleased with our progress early in 2011 in an environment that remains challenging.
We are excited about our opportunities for growth and our ability to execute throughout the organization.
Our first quarter results have us off to a solid start toward another year of record results at McCormick.
Operator let's take the [indiscernible].
[Operator Instructions] Our first question this morning is from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to take a little bit of a closer look at the Asia-Pacific sales growth on the Industrial side with it being down 1% this quarter.
I know you mentioned it was due to the quick service restaurants focusing more on core items.
Could you give us a little bit more commentary on exactly what that means and is it likely to persist going forward? Yes.
What we see from time-to-time in Asia is our large customers there focus on new product innovation to bring people into the stores and when they do that we tend to win because we win more than our share of those briefs and get those products.
When they focus on core items like they did in first quarter we see more of a steady kind of normalized product mix which is not quite as profitable as new products and certainly doesn't have the growth profile of those limited time offers and new product innovation.
This tends to run in cycles.
If you ask our customers and our folks there you would say it's probably going to be a year that's more focused on the core than it is on product innovation.
But as we see that usually impacts their store volume and when their store volume gets weaker they tend to start promoting and innovating again.
And so we're not overly concerned about it.
We do think through the year that we'll get back to product innovation and promotions there that will continue to drive the business.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then as a quick follow-up there was a comment in the press release about improved profit growth in emerging markets.
And I was wondering if you could just tell us what's driving that inflection point in terms of I presume higher margin? Well we certainly want to keep pointing to the fact that we have good exposure to the emerging market portfolio.
So it really is a sales-driven event when we talk about improved profit growth.
So it relates to the fact that now we have a joint venture presence in India.
We talked about the other markets that you saw in that chart that we shared at CAGNY.
So it's our confidence around the growth profile of those markets.
The only caveat I'll just point out which we did talk about in our remarks is the pressure in our markets in our joint venture in Mexico which we expect to start to experience pressure from soybean oil costs as we head into the second quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just had a question for you first on the gross margin perhaps for Gordon I guess I'm trying to understand in the first quarter you had a strong performance and is there a phasing statute of the cost inflation that maybe didn't negatively affect the first quarter as heavily as you think it will happen in the rest year? I'm just trying to get a better understanding for how it could be down the rest of the year or for the year? And then related to that are the CCI cost savings more heavily gross margin or cost of goods sold focus versus SG&amp;A focus this year? It is partially phasing.
We do expect to experience those cost increases more severely as we progress through the year.
We also pointed out that in the prior year we had a favorable comparison which included the recall costs last year of about $5 million that we didn't experience this year.
And to your question regarding the percentage of CCI it is heavily weighted towards cost of goods sold.
I'd say about 85% of the CCI savings would be in the cost of goods line and that's part of the reason we're able to offset these costs and not have pricing offset them more fully.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
And then in relation to the CCI cost savings are those -- given you're now looking for perhaps more than $40 million for the year do those evenly phase through the year or are those maybe more front-half loaded such that you won't get as much benefit in the second half of the year? No they're generally more evenly phased.
We have a pipeline active throughout the year that we're constantly implementing.
So they tend to be more evenly phased in terms of when we implement these projects.
I will say because our profits do skew more heavily into the fourth quarter some of the savings may also end up being bigger in that quarter just by virtue of the volume being bigger that quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
That makes sense.
My last question for you is just in relation to private label.
I guess last quarter you had or you saw a weaker performance of private label and this quarter maybe it's just due to the pricing maybe that's the answer but that it was a little stronger.
So I was curious if you had any further commentary on that.
And then also how your Private Label business performed in the quarter was it in line with units [ph]? Was it up a little bit? Did it work against your mix? Yes what we saw in the quarter for private label in the U.S.
market at least is private label gained a little volume share held pretty flat in terms of volume share.
And what we saw both here and as well as in the U.K.
a lag in the pass-through of the price increases specific to private label while the brand did go up in a lot of outlets.
So we did see that bit of a gap.
Our sales of private label because we passed on the same $0.10 per pound increase as we did on the brand will flow through.
We'll certainly start to see that in the second and third quarters.
So we're not overly concerned with the price gaps going forward.
We are seeing the short-term impact of that.
Our sales of private label were actually still down a little bit from last year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ken Goldman of JPMorgan Chase.
I just wanted to focus on the European Consumer business for a bit.
I appreciate that what's happening there is less about what you're doing and it's more about a tough environment.
But it feels like the challenges for many companies are growing there.
So I guess what I'm asking is we have a tough economy.
It makes things more difficult for a longer time than expected and a company in this case you guys responds by temporarily maybe lowering prices via promotion.
And that may very well be the right thing to do here and you're not doing that in a vacuum.
You're marketing more too.
But when we end up in the other side and let's say these economies finally improve how likely is the consumer willing to be to take higher prices again? I guess I'm asking is there a risk of a structural shift here especially with the austerity programs in place? How difficult is it going to be to get back to that positive cycle of innovation and new products rather than maybe a less sustainable cycle of lowering prices and competing on that level maybe more than you want? Yes I would say as we've gone through this first quarter what we've seen is some pretty aggressive competitive activity in the U.K.
specifically.
And we think it's important that we hold our own there and respond to that.
We are as one of our tactics accelerating our new product innovation.
We had some plans for later in the year that we're pulling forward.
We think that is important and will help drive the brand.
In France we are very encouraged by what we're seeing in both our Spice and our Dessert business and are less concerned there about the price promotion.
But you raise a good point.
We think over time the competitive impact will be less and our competition there tends to be larger well-organized companies and so they tend to be more rational.
It doesn't change the fact though that it is going to continue to be a tough environment for the foreseeable future specifically with the retail trade there.
Thanks and then one question on acquisitions.
Last quarter you were asked about them and you said it's a pretty active environment more active than maybe it's been for the last couple of years.
Is that still the same any change there? I wouldn't say there’s any change to that.
We see lots of opportunities.
Our next question today is from the line of Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
I just wanted to ask about the sales guidance because the way I'm modeling it out your sales growth was about 2.5% first quarter.
Maybe it would have been 4.5% excluding the $10 million shift.
But the model says that you have to do 6.5% maybe even 7% for the rest of the year to hit your guidance.
And I understand you have some consumer programs in place but is that -- what else has to take place for that kind of acceleration? And is it going to be that much tougher because as you say the macro environment is not helping? Yes.
The things that we have in place -- I think there's three things that we'd point to.
One is the first quarter is depressed because of the buy in.
That's the factor that you pointed out.
The second is we have a later Easter this year.
And so last year we would have seen a lot of the Easter sales in the first quarter.
This year we'll see it a little later.
And then the other impact of that is pricing realization.
Through the first quarter in a number of our markets we're in the process of implementing pricing.
That's now largely in place and we see that as also helpful for the rest of the year specifically in our Industrial business where you saw very little price impact in the first quarter.
The other thing is we've got a broad range of new products that we're launching as well as new distribution that will be coming online as we go through the rest of the year and we're very encouraged by what we see there.
And that's why we gave the original guidance that we did.
And then in addition to that we've got a number of merchandising initiatives in Europe which we think will have an impact.
It doesn't change the fact that we are looking hard at consumer behavior and looking to continue to drive our share growth.
But we have a lot of things that we think will help us through the rest of the year.
Alan could I ask another question? Industrial sales growth far exceeded Consumer sales growth in the quarter.
And again I think that a lot of it has to do with the buy in.
But if your pricing is really going to be Industrial-driven is there a mix shift issue here also? When you model this out do you have Industrial growing faster than Consumer for the rest of the year? And if that's the driver of the growth is there any impact on your margins? Not necessarily but Industrial pricing is going to be higher than Consumer pricing but we're fully expecting with the new distribution gains as well as the new product activity and then the shift of the first quarter sales into later quarters that Consumer should hold its own.
We're not expecting a shift in our business mix.
Our next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> In the U.S.
in relation to Industrial customers is there any change to the strategy or the pace of innovation? No.
We still feel pretty encouraged by what we see with the innovation pipeline in the U.S.
LLC</strong> And then second on your base business are there any distribution gains we should know about? Nothing specific that I can talk about at this point other than what we referred to at CAGNY.
But we certainly see some increases in the drug channel as well as some dollar channel increases that we've started to take on now.
Our next question is from Michael Block with Phoenix Partners.
Ken Goldman asked much what I wanted to ask about for European consumer.
But one addition question what are your assumptions for the euro for Q2 and the rest of the year? I was just very interested in that.
We generally don't predict the euro.
It's obviously a difficult thing to do.
But when we give our guidance we base it on current exchange rates and that's what we were forecasting as the 1% benefit from FX.
At current rates we would get a 1% benefit for FX the remainder of the year.
Our next question is from Alex Bisson with Northcoast Research.
One or two quick questions for you.
You talked about a new inventory system.
I was wondering if you could give kind of the highlights of what that entails and what the potential is from the new inventory system? Yes the system that we have is allowing us to use more technology to predict what our demand and our safety stock needs to be as opposed to a lot of human intervention.
We certainly we're driving our sales and operations planning process with a lot of input from our sales and marketing teams but we're using more data to try to predict that.
So we're very encouraged by what we see there.
And then I got on the call a minute or two late so I apologize if I missed this but could you just talk a little bit about how consumers reacted to the higher prices in the quarter on the Consumer business? I guess mainly in the U.S.
but broadly as well? Yes it's pretty early to see the impact of price increase because it was rolling throughout the quarter in various markets and customers.
What we did see is that the brand prices were taken up pretty quickly as they started to hit and the private label prices have lagged a bit.
And it's pretty tough to read the short-term data.
We would say that in all channels in the quarter we actually grew share a little bit in dollars and held our own in units.
Private label grew share a little bit in units and stayed steady in dollars.
So we just haven't seen that pricing impacted fully implemented across the board yet or fully implemented at shelf.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Ms.
Brooks for closing comments.
Thank you for participating in today's discussion.
Through April 5 you may access the telephone replay of today's call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The account number for the replay is 309 and the ID is 367742.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information please give me a call at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes our call.
Greetings and welcome to the McCormick's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Joyce Brooks Vice President Investor Relations for McCormick.
Thank you.
Ms.
Brooks you may begin.
Good morning to everyone on today's call and to those joining us by webcast.
The purpose of our call is to provide an update on our business review McCormick's second quarter financial results and share our latest 2011 outlook.
We've posted a set of slides to accompany today's call at our web site ir.mccormick.com.
Joining us for the call are Alan Wilson Chairman President and CEO; and Gordon Stetz Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer.
Alan is going to start with the business review and discussion of the recent business agreements and transactions.
Gordon will follow with the review of our second quarter financial results and an update to our 2011 outlook.
After that we look forward to discussing your questions.
As a reminder our presentation today contains projections and other forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other factors.
In addition certain information we will present today are non-GAAP measures.
This includes annual financial results from 2010 and prior years that exclude items affecting comparability.
We present this non-GAAP information for comparative purposes alongside the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found in the presentation slides for our call.
It's now my pleasure to turn this discussion over to Alan.
Thanks Joyce.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Some of you that dialed in on our last quarterly call in March remarked that it was an unusually short call.
I don't know that anybody was actually complaining but in our efforts to exceed your expectation you'll find this morning's call a little bit longer since we've got a lot of really good news to report.
The good news starts with our latest financial performance and a double-digit increase in sales and profit for the second quarter.
This was accomplished in an economic environment that remains challenging for McCormick as well as our customers and our consumers.
Both our Consumer and Industrial segments achieved a strong sales performance.
Through new products increased distribution and our brand marketing we were able to offset areas of weakness in certain parts of the business.
On the cost front we were effectively managing through a volatile and inflationary material cost environment with our pricing actions and through our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement program CCI which is now expected to generate at least $45 million in cost savings in 2011.
Following the end of our quarter we announced 2 agreements: Kohinoor and Kamis that gave us a leap forward in execution against our emerging market strategy.
Let me begin with an update on our sales and profit growth initiatives and then share with you why we are so excited about the news in Kohinoor and Kamis.
As I indicated one key driver of second quarter sales was our new product activity.
In our Consumer business the U.S.
relaunch of our frozen Zatarain’s line with new packaging new graphics and simpler ingredients led to a 16% increase in unit sales with 11 of the top 25 grocery customers accepting an average of 6 items.
We're rolling out 3 new flavors including Big Easy Rice Bowl and French Quarter Pasta Bake.
Unit sales of Recipe Inspirations are up nearly 20% year-to-date in the U.S.
which includes the introduction of 6 World Flavors.
Also in the U.S.
many of you have seen our new Grill Mates varieties of seasoning blends marinades and rubs which helped drive a 5% unit increase for Grill Mates in the first half.
In France we're boosting sales of new products for both our Ducros brand of spices and seasonings as well as 21 new Vahiné brand dessert items.
The new Ducros items include a line of organic spices and herbs seasoning blends adjustable grinders and an environmentally friendly refill box; 16 items in total.
Moving to our Asia/Pacific region Thai Chili Sauce which we introduced in 2010 continues to grow and will be launched in additional markets in the second half.
In Australia we've introduced One Pot meals to bring together convenience and flavor with dishes like Chicken and Leek Casserole.
On the Industrial side of our business we've maintained a strong new product pipeline across our global regions in support of our food service customers and those food manufacturers we serve.
In the Americas we've increased sales with seasonings for snacks that feature natural ingredients.
That's a key McCormick strength.
In the quarter we gained acceptance for new serial flavors and new sauces.
Our Industrial business in EMEA has had a string of quarters with strong sales growth and the second quarter was no exception.
A 4% increase in volume and product mix in this most recent quarter included sales of additional Ducros and Vahiné-branded items in the food service distributor channel and several new sauces for quick-service restaurants.
We also had recent new product wins with food manufacturers that include flavors for snack nuts and for Mexican meals.
Innovative beverage flavors for quick-service restaurants in Asia rounds out the new product activity for our Industrial business.
1/3 of sales growth is expected to come from new products and we've got a lot on board and in the pipeline to meet this objective.
We look for another 1/3 of sales to come from base business growth which we are driving with increased distribution and effective marketing.
Let me share the latest news starting with distribution gains.
Second quarter sales included incremental Consumer business in the U.S.
that we announced in the past 12 months.
We've commented previously on our expansion in club stores and I'm pleased to report that we've expanded 2 of our leading Grill Mates items nationally in warehouse clubs.
Also driving growth is a new private label business with a grocery retailer and a leading drug chain that we mentioned earlier in 2011.
In recent weeks we've also won the private label business for a leading dollar store chain and we'll start to supply these products later in 2011.
In Europe we're also making great strides with new distribution.
In France you can find our Ducros brand in nearly every grocery retailer except one which is historically offered only private label.
Our sales team has now negotiated acceptance of 55 Ducros items with this retailer.
And in Portugal we recently won distribution of our Margot brand items with a leading discount retailer.
Distribution gains continue to drive our business in China as we expand in the new cities and new distribution points including street markets.
Moving to the Industrial business our distribution gains include the supply of additional regions in the U.S.
for a quick-service restaurant customer.
We announced this earlier in 2011 and are starting to see the benefit on our top line.
In our EMEA region we're building distribution in food service through our joint ventures in both Turkey and South Africa.
And as part of our growth in emerging markets in Asia we've begun to supply flavor products to support the expansion of a major quick-service restaurant customer in India.
Turning to brand marketing we have some additional business highlights.
During the quarter we launched a major new marketing campaign for Hispanic consumers in the U.S.
our largest to date.
This integrated program includes an Asando Sabroso tour which means grilling with flavor in Spanish with 26 planned stops featuring product samples flavor ideas and donations as part of a program to establish scholarships for Latino students.
The campaign also includes television advertising on Hispanic networks regional radio ads and in-store displays and recipes.
We've launched the Spanish language website that encourages exploration of new flavors and recipe sharing.
This is an important initiative that in the second quarter helped drive double-digit sales growth of our Hispanic products in the U.S.
and that we will continue to run in the second half of 2011.
With an increase of 150% in our 2011 social media spending we're gaining traction with consumers.
In the U.K.
we launched Schwartz Cooking Club across Facebook Twitter and YouTube in May with 71 million ad impressions planned for the next 3 months.
In the U.S.
our Grill Mates Facebook fans recently grew by 100 000 in a recent 2-week period gaining an average of about 10 000 new fans a day.
We have an event underway where consumers can get their photo posted on a grill on the NASDAQ video screen in Time Square both at Memorial Day and over the Fourth of July.
And in the second quarter we launched the second addition of our Flavor Forecast in China with much fanfare.
To summarize our sales initiative while we're certainly feeling some impact of higher prices during this period we're driving sales with innovative products expanded distribution and by reaching consumers with marketing programs that build awareness and usage of our great products.
Heading into 2011 we were faced with significant cost increases in our raw and packaging materials.
Midway through the year we're seeing further increases in some material costs including commodities we use in our industrial products such as soybean oil dairy ingredients and wheat.
While our pricing actions have provided an important offset in 2011 of equal importance our efforts to improve productivity and reduce cost through our CCI program.
Our teams throughout McCormick have made excellent progress in 2011 and we now expect to deliver at least $45 million in cost savings from this program.
Gordon plans to provide some additional remarks on our latest outlook for the impact of CCI pricing cost inflation and the impact on our gross profit and gross profit margins in 2011.
On June 1 we were pleased to announce an agreement to form a joint venture with Kohinoor Foods Ltd.
to market and sell branded basmati rice and food products in India.
McCormick will invest $115 million for an 85% interest in this new joint venture.
Basmati rice is a cornerstone of Indian cuisine and Kohinoor is a leading brand with more than a 15% share.
With sales of $85 million this business has an extensive distribution network a 350 000 retailers and the ability to scale to a national brand in India.
Sales of Kohinoor have been growing at a double-digit pace.
Consumers in India view basmati rice as a premium item and have been shifting their purchases toward branded basmati rice.
In addition to expanded distribution we'll work to grow sales and profits of this business by developing new products under the popular Kohinoor brand through consumer marketing and by applying the latest food technologies and global best practices to this joint venture.
Kohinoor is a great next step for McCormick which builds upon our other investments in India and offers a new avenue for growth.
Earlier this week we signed an agreement with the owner of Kamis to purchase 100% of the shares of this business for approximately $291 million.
Kamis is a strategic acquisition for McCormick that establishes a foothold in Eastern and Central Europe and is an excellent complement to our leading brands in the U.K.
France and other parts of Western Europe.
Kamis is a brand leader in Poland with more than $100 million in annual sales.
The brand has category shares in Poland of approximately 45% in spices and seasonings and 30% in mustard as well as subsidiaries in Russia Romania the Ukraine and exports into a number of Central and Eastern European countries.
More than 1/3 of consumers in Poland purchase seasonings at least every 2 weeks.
Across its entire portfolio Kamis is growing sales at a mid-single-digit rate.
Established in 1991 this business has a modern production facility near Warsaw and about 1 250 employees.
Upon closing Kamis will report into Malcolm Swift our President of Europe Middle East and Africa.
Our growth plans for this business include product innovation building brand marketing support introducing certain products that we offer in other European markets into some of the Kamis markets and expanding the Kamis brand into other Central and Eastern European markets.
Between these 2 deals our business development team has been really busy and with great results.
And our integration teams are formed and well underway.
My congratulations to them.
It was just 4 years -- 4 months ago at the CAGNY conference where I shared with you a goal to build our percentage of sales in emerging markets from 9% in 2010 to 12% by 2015.
With Kamis and Kohinoor we expect more than 12% of McCormick's 2012 sales to come from emerging markets.
Before I turn it over to Gordon for a closer look at the second quarter and review of our latest outlook for the year I'd like to acknowledge the achievements of all McCormick employees around the world.
They are behind our second quarter performance and success with our growth initiatives whether it's new product development distribution wins CCI activity or these latest acquisitions.
I applaud their efforts and I'm really proud to be part of this excellent team.
Gordon? Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
Today's announcement of our second quarter sales and profit performance demonstrates the strength of our brands and the effectiveness of our CCI program.
We are particularly pleased to be delivering year-to-date high performance across most of our operating units.
Let's start with a closer look at top line results.
There has been a lot of interest in our pricing activities so let me begin with a few general remarks and then move into a discussion of our 2 segments.
In response to higher raw and packaging material costs we began to implement pricing actions early in fiscal year 2011.
In the second quarter pricing added 3% to our sales growth -- all right let me correct that in the first quarter pricing added 3% to our sales growth.
In the second quarter our pricing actions were more fully in place for our Consumer business and we continue to pass-through higher costs with increases to industrial customers.
As a result pricing added nearly 5% to second quarter sales.
Keep in mind that as we head into the third quarter of 2011 we will begin to lap some significant pricing on pepper that was taken in August 2010.
As indicated on Slide 14 in the Americas region Consumer business sales were up 9%.
Our pricing actions accounted for 7% of this increase and we grew volume and product mix by 2% in the quarter.
This increase was led by authentic regional cuisine in the U.S.
and dry seasoning mixes and Billy Bee Honey in Canada.
Unit sales of Zatarain's branded products rose 16% as a result of distribution gains for frozen products and incremental marketing behind the brand.
We grew net sales of Hispanic items in the U.S.
at a double-digit pace through our direct store delivery system in Western markets and the campaign Alan described.
For many of our other products we believe the emphasis by certain retailers on private label limited our sales growth during this period.
We are responding to this environment by analyzing and adjusting our promotional activities launching differentiated new products and ensuring we have good distribution of our products both brand and private label in all channels.
Consumer sales in EMEA increased 10% and in local currency rose 2%.
In this region pricing of 4% was offset in part by a 2% decline in volume and product mix.
This was an improvement from a 6% decline in volume and product mix during the first quarter.
What we saw in this most recent period were mixed results.
Sales of our Ducros and Vahiné brands in France benefited from new product introductions and product distribution.
Increases in developing markets related primarily to distribution gains.
In the U.K.
and the Netherlands we experienced volume and product mix declines.
In these countries consumers remained under pressure and a competitive retail environment has led to aggressive actions with private label items in many categories.
As stated in the first quarter we are addressing this situation by: first redirecting a portion of brand marketing support to emphasize the value of our products; second accelerating new product activity to differentiate from private label; and third working to improve our in-store merchandising.
In the Asia/Pacific region Consumer business sales rose 23% and in local currency were up 13%.
The result this quarter was led by China where we grew sales volume and product mix with our efforts to introduce new products and expand distribution geographically and into additional retail channels.
This pace of growth in China is on top of a double-digit sales increase in the second quarter of 2010.
Operating income for our consumer business was $77 million a 13% increase from the second quarter of 2010.
We achieved this increase largely through higher sales and CCI cost savings.
Recall that in the second quarter of 2010 we increased our brand marketing by 18% to support the launch of Recipe Inspirations and Perfect Pinch in the U.S.
This year we maintained nearly the same level of spending with incremental marketing support behind Zatarain’s and Hispanic products in the U.S.
as well as social media activity in a number of markets.
Let's take a look at the sales performance for our Industrial business by region on Slide 15.
In each region we have taken pricing actions with our industrial customers to pass-through increased material costs and we expect this pattern to continue for the next 2 quarters.
Industrial sales in the Americas grew 9% and in local currency were up 8% with similar increases in volume and product mix and in pricing.
Volume and product mix this period was driven by new products and increased demand by food manufacturers for snack seasonings cereal flavors and other products.
We continue to see a robust pipeline of new products that include simple ingredients a healthier profile and ethnic flavors.
Also in the Americas sales to the food service industry were comparable to the second quarter of 2010.
We have stronger sales to quick-service restaurants that included new products and expanded distribution but saw some weakness this period in the sale of branded food service items.
In EMEA our Industrial business posted yet another quarter of strong sales growth.
We grew second quarter sales 13% and in local currency 7%.
Volume and product mix drove this increase as well as our pricing actions.
Demand from quick-service restaurants continues to be the key sales driver in this region.
We saw particular strength in the sales of products that we manufacture in our facilities in Turkey and South Africa.
In fact we just increased production capacity in our consolidated industrial joint venture in Turkey by 26%.
In the Asia/Pacific region Industrial business sales rose 21% and in local currency 12%.
This increase builds on a 13% increase in the second quarter of 2010.
It is also a sequential turnaround from the first quarter of 2011 when sales were affected by the emphasis on certain menu items by our quick-service restaurant customers.
This quarter we benefited from some new products for these customers along with support for their business-building activity in India.
Across all regions operating income for our Industrial business rose 10% from the year-ago period to $32 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This increase was driven by higher sales and CCI cost savings.
We were able to improve our operating profit margin through CCI and a shift in mix toward more value-added products achieving 8.4% in the second quarter.
We were pleased with this improvement given the downward pressure on margins that is created by our pricing protocol in an inflationary environment in which we adjust prices dollar-per-dollar to reflect changes in material costs.
For the total business second quarter operating income rose 12% from the year-ago period following a 12% increase in the first quarter.
Operating income margin was up slightly from last year at 12.4%.
Gross profit margin on the other hand was down 120 basis points.
This was a reversal from 130 basis point increase in the first quarter.
Heading into the first quarter we had some lower cost inventory in the system and didn't experience the full effect of higher material costs.
By the second quarter a greater impact of higher material and packaging costs had worked their way into our cost of goods sold.
We succeeded in offsetting the dollar impact of higher costs with our pricing actions and CCI cost savings.
However the net effect of these factors caused gross profit as a percent of net sales to decline in the second quarter.
McCormick employees are achieving excellent results with CCI and we have increased our projected cost savings for 2011.
However material costs continue to escalate.
From our initial cost inflation estimate of 7% to 8% for the year we are seeing further increases into the second half of our fiscal year.
While we expect pricing actions and CCI cost savings to continue to offset the dollar impact of higher costs we also expect a decline in gross profit margin to continue into the second half.
SG&amp;A rose 5% from the second quarter of 2010 but as a percentage of sales was down 140 basis points.
The tax rate was in line with our guidance at 31.1% up slightly from 30.2% in the year-ago period.
Keep in mind that for the next 2 quarters of 2011 we will be comparing to a third and fourth quarter in 2010 that both had very favorable tax rates.
As projected income from unconsolidated operations was down slightly in the quarter.
The primary reason for the decline was the impact of higher soybean oil on our joint venture in Mexico where mayonnaise is a leading item.
The fundamentals of our joint venture's performance remain solid including aggregate sales growth of 24% of which about half is due to the incremental impact of Eastern condiments in India which is performing right on plan and half from increases across our other joint ventures.
At the bottom line as shown on Slide 17 earnings per share was $0.55 compared to $0.49 in the second quarter of the prior year.
This $0.06 increase came from higher operating income.
I'd like to turn next to the balance sheet and cash flow.
During the quarter we spent $39 million to repurchase 807 000 shares at an average cost of $48.32.
At the end of May $270 million remained on our $400 million share repurchase authorization.
In mid-May we curtailed our share repurchase activity in anticipation of our acquisition activities.
We expect to use a combination of cash and debt to finance our recently announced transactions.
Net cash flow from operations was $36 million for the first 6 months of 2011.
This is down from $65 million in the year-ago period.
Net increase -- net income has increased in 2011 and we have improved our receivables collections.
However as we saw in the first quarter inventory has increased since our 2010 fiscal year end.
This increase is driven in part by higher material costs currency impact and inventory positions.
The higher cost of raw and packaging materials mean that the inventory we hold also has a higher cost which accounted for about one quarter of the increase versus the year-ago inventory balance.
The impact of currency added another 20% of increase.
And as we mentioned last quarter in response to world events and potential supply issues we are currently holding certain positions of spices and herbs to assure a steady supply of high-quality products for our customers.
This accounts for more than half of the remaining increase.
In the face of these increases we are very focused on lowering our inventory levels.
One initiative currently underway is the implementation of new inventory management processes in North America.
Once we fully implement this system and begin to drive reductions in our inventory in North America we will turn our attention to implementing those new processes in other parts of our business.
Given our current inventory level the continuing cost pressure and the importance of holding strategic inventory in this environment we are not likely to reach the goal set in April 2010 which is to reduce our cash conversion cycle by 10 days by 2012.
We achieved the reduction of 3 days in 2010 but do not expect to see further progress in 2011.
Be assured that activity to improve our working capital continues.
We remain committed to improving our cash conversion cycle and we'll revise the goal once we have better visibility in this volatile cost environment.
I'm going to wrap up our remarks with our latest financial outlook for 2011.
During my review of McCormick's second quarter results I provided some comments about certain aspects of our projections for the balance sheet of -- balance of the year as they relate to our existing business.
Let me summarize this outlook and then incorporate the impact of the 2 transactions that Alan discussed.
We are including them in our guidance at this time because we have a high degree of confidence they will be completed later this quarter most likely by the end of the third quarter.
So on Slide 19 starting with our base business we are reaffirming expected sales growth of 5% to 7% in local currency.
Although at this point in the year we are seeing more of a shift toward pricing within this range.
Another 1% of growth is expected in incremental sales with 3 months of the Kohinoor and Kamis businesses.
This takes our sales growth outlook in local currency to 6% to 8%.
Based on prevailing currency exchange rates the impact of foreign currency is now expected to add 2% to sales up from our earlier estimate of 1%.
Turning to earnings per share on Slide 20 we began the year with a $2.80 to $2.85 range.
We are reaffirming this range for our base business.
This may seem overly conservative given the double-digit increases achieved in each of the first 2 quarters.
However we remain cautious about the impact of the global economy on our consumers and on our retail and industrial customers.
In addition as I stated earlier we are facing further increases in material costs.
While we do not typically comment on specific quarters I have a few quick remarks on the third and fourth quarters of 2011 and ask that you keep in mind for any financial projections.
As I mentioned earlier we had some significant tax rate variances that boosted earnings per share in both the third and fourth quarters of 2010.
In the third quarter of 2010 we recorded the reversal of a significant tax accrual which increased GAAP EPS by $0.10 to $0.76 but was excluded from our adjusted EPS of $0.66.
In the fourth quarter of 2010 a favorable tax rate added $0.09 which was included in EPS of $0.99.
Another thing I'd like to point out based on our marketing plans for the third quarter of 2011 we expect to increase brand spending by at least $6 million as we continue our Hispanic campaign add incremental support for Zatarain’s and emphasize a brand value message to consumers.
Now to update our 2011 earnings per share for the anticipated impact of the 2 transactions.
We expect to report approximately $9 million in acquisition-related costs related to Kohinoor and Kamis which will lower 2011 EPS by $0.06 to $2.74 to $2.79.
As for the timing of these acquisition-related costs $2 million was recorded in SG&amp;A in the second quarter which lowered EPS by $0.01.
We expect to complete these transactions in the next few months and record the remaining $7 million in the third quarter which is projected to lower EPS that quarter by $0.05.
Any fourth quarter impact for profit from these businesses should be minimal due to initial integration costs and planned investment spending.
For fiscal year 2012 both businesses are expected to be accretive adding an estimated $0.07 to $0.09 to EPS.
While we plan to call out the acquisition-related costs in our guidance and will highlight them in our financial results we do not plan to report them as non-GAAP expense as we view these types of acquisitions and joint ventures as an integral part of our strategy.
I hope that my remarks in the previous press releases that we have provided the information you need as you evaluate these transactions and our latest outlook.
Joyce is available after our call should you need help with additional details.
On Slide 21 we have summarized our latest guidance which includes the sales growth and earnings per share along with CCI savings of at least $45 million.
We continue to expect a decline in gross profit margin and an increase in our marketing expense that is in line with sales even at the higher growth rate.
Our outstanding shares are likely to be flat rather than down 1% as we have curtailed repurchases pending cash outlays for the new acquisition and joint venture.
Let me summarize.
This is an exciting time for McCormick.
We have delivered excellent financial results for the first half of the year results that are in line with or ahead of our goals for 2011.
Following double-digit profit growth in the first half our outlook for the full year is tempered a bit by the current economic and input cost environment.
But we fully expect our new products upcoming brand marketing and latest distribution wins to maintain momentum for our business and lead to a solid second half performance.
Accelerating this momentum as we head into 2012 are some excellent additions to our global portfolio of leading brands.
We look forward to completing these agreements and moving forward with the integration and growth of these businesses.
Thank you for your attention.
And operator let's take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Ken Goldman of JPMorgan Chase.
To supported brands you talk about or your brands McCormick adjusting your promotional activities.
Is that just promoting more? Is it a broader adjustment than that? I know you touched on this a little bit in your comments but if you could provide some color there that would be useful I think.
Yes sure.
What we're doing as Gordon pointed out is a little bit of a shift from second quarter last year to third quarter where we're up spending more against some of our -- the newer products that are hitting.
So we're going to have an incremental spend.
The second thing that we're doing is our promotional spending is going to be fairly similar.
But we're going to emphasize the value of our business to consumers as they're under pressure.
So it's more of a message as opposed to just increasing the promotional spend.
And can you talk a little bit about the pricing environment for private label right now? Another private label manufacturer not in the spices but recently cited some unusual pushback from its customers.
I'm curious if that's something you're experiencing too or whether it's different in your categories.
It's been a little different in our categories mainly because we took our pricing earlier and have really strong justification.
I would say similar to what you've heard from other companies both in brands and private label you have to really be pretty descriptive on what's happening with cost in order to get pricing approved these days.
But we had very good justifications we went in.
Now I will say in terms of private label pricing on the shelf we still have not seen in every segment private label passing through the increased cost at this point.
Our next question is from the line of Andrew Lazar of Barclays Capital.
Gordon I was hoping maybe you could just give us a little bit more color around the year-over-year change in gross margin in terms of -- we know part of that was just the dynamic around the higher pricing which impacts the margin percentage.
But any color around the underlying change year-over-year in the margin whether it be to the mix of your businesses which I know can impact margin quite a bit and things to that nature would be helpful.
Yes as we described in the script Andrew we were able to cover the dollar increases through pricing or CCI.
And so the math is such that when you're just covering the cost increases the margin points will start to decline.
You can see both businesses Consumer and Industrial grew at similar rates.
Industrial is slightly higher than Consumer.
So it was not a huge mix impact.
It really was a function of the math as it relates to the increases that we were trying to cover through pricing and CCI.
Great.
And then I guess as I think about your business in the -- from a margin perspective I know that you had obviously a big increase in the first quarter as cost hadn't kind of fully flowed through you're seeing that impact now.
And if I missed this I'm sorry but you talked about originally the 7% to 8% input cost inflation this year with some increases still coming in the back half.
Has that 7% to 8% been updated to be greater at this point for the full year or is it still 7% to 8% just with more of that inflation coming in the back half? Yes.
As you saw in our comments we're upping our CCI because our teams have been very very good at delivering that but that's really going to offset greater increases than anticipated.
We haven't put out a specific number but I can say that that 7% to 8% is going to be higher.
And to give a broad range I'd say it's approaching more high-single digits.
And we're offsetting that through the CCI activities that we described earlier.
Great.
And last thing would just be on the Industrial side I know a couple of years ago you adjusted sort of the way that you're able to sort of pass-through pricing to make it smoother if you will or to manage through more volatile environments a bit better there.
It seems like that's sort of playing out the way that you would hope through this more volatile environment but any perspective there would be helpful as well.
Yes sure.
On -- this is Alan.
We are -- our protocols are working for the market basket of commodities like soybean oil and flour and those sorts of things.
Where we have a little more negotiation and aren't necessarily part of the protocols is kind of all other stuff like packaging and minor ingredients which we are also seeing increase.
So those we're chasing a little bit more -- there's more of a delay in those as opposed to the raw commodities where we collaborate.
But I would say we're pleased that we have the ability to work with our customers on passing those through.
Our next question is from Alexia Howard of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Can I ask a little bit about the new inventory management process that you referenced? I think that might have been linked to your efforts to secure supply in certain areas.
Could you tell us a little bit more about where the biggest areas by product by region where you've had to take those extra steps to secure supply? Well certainly as we saw some of the unrest in the Middle East we buy a lot of herbs out of places like Egypt.
We increased our inventory to make -- to assure supply.
And so there is some of that.
The other thing that as we see commodities rising from time-to-time we're taking longer positions of spices to try to offset as much as we can.
What we see are higher prices.
And that's just a pattern of what we do.
So we're pretty balanced.
I think what you're seeing in the inventory levels is a combination of higher costs some strategic positions to help offset future costs and then some inventory for -- to make sure we have supply assurance in the case of some unrest.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Last quarter I think we saw very sluggish sales growth in the Asia/Pacific region for the Industrial business.
But this quarter it seems to have rebounded nicely.
I think you mentioned innovative new flavors and beverages.
Are we likely to see that kind of lumpiness going forward amongst those quick-service restaurants or do you think you're now on much more of a steady trajectory here? I would expect to see a more steady trajectory although that is one of the things that we're subject to what our customers are driving.
And what we saw in the first quarter is customers were driving more core menu items and focus there.
But as they've headed into an innovation cycle which we expect to continue we see the benefit of that.
A lot of our growth is built on those product innovations in -- especially in China.
Inc.</strong> Great.
I'll pass it on.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Eric Serotta of Wells Fargo investments.
LLC</strong> I'm wondering whether you could provide a little bit of additional color on the areas of the business where you're seeing increased retailer emphasis on private label.
I realize it's in Americas consumer you highlighted but is that in core herbs and spices? And maybe you could provide a little bit color around that.
Yes it is around core herbs and spices and it's predominantly in the U.S.
the U.K.
and a little bit in Canada.
But most of our products aren't duplicated in private label.
It's about -- and it's pretty focused on the top 10 or 15 items in core herbs and spices.
But what we have seen so far this year our retailers holding the line on pricing largely in private label even though the cost have gone up.
Now we expect over time as we've seen in the past those 2 eventually flow their way through.
But I would say the most aggressive market for private label and has been for a long time is the U.K.
The U.S.
continues to be a good market for private label but we've held our own in share with our brands.
But it is just a few items that are duplicated in the stores.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And could you talk a bit about the incremental cost pressures that you're seeing in the second half? Where -- what types of inputs are you seeing that in because there's a good deal of your inputs where there is frankly not a lot of transparency or visibility things like pepper or garlic.
We don't have quite the read that you guys do obviously.
Where are the -- where are you seeing the input cost inflation or the incremental input cost inflation as we enter the second half? It's predominantly around the agricultural commodities.
And the biggest impact for us is pepper both black white and red.
And so we're continuing to manage that.
We're seeing some relief in garlic later in the year as the new crop comes on.
But pepper is more than offsetting that.
We're still seeing and I think we will for awhile we're still seeing some of the more published commodities which you do have transparency on in flour in soybean oil stay pretty high.
So those are all kind of flowing their way through.
I would say packaging is still -- we're seeing inflation in packaging as well.
LLC</strong> And lastly when do you expect to start to see some of the benefits from the new inventory management processes that you have in place to offset some of the headwinds that you talked about on the inventory side? Well this is Gordon Eric.
Our team is working very hard with the new module and the new processes.
We've put a new organization in place just recently in this year.
So we're going to see where we stand at the end of this year and evaluate the progress that's been made and give you more clarity.
I can say that as a company we're working very hard on improving our management of inventories.
And I know our teams are very dedicated to doing that.
The volatility of the cost environment has made projections on this pretty difficult.
So we've decided to just give you a heads-up as we did in the conference call script on new timing of our goal for cash conversion cycle.
We'd like the teams to work through this a bit and then at year end we can update you.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I'll pass it on.
Thanks Eric.
Thanks Eric.
Our next question is from the line of Thilo Wrede of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> My first question was regarding your updated guidance.
There were a lot of moving parts.
You're taking it up the top line by a percent because of the acquisitions another percent because of FX.
But then there are integration costs and different share count.
So when I put all these parts together my impression is that the underlying business the like-for-like business is maybe slightly weaker than you previously thought? No I wouldn't -- that's not the takeaway.
I would be careful in doing that.
Really the headline messages is we are reaffirming.
There's a number of these puts and takes between a share buyback and other items.
But in the end it's the range that we're providing here so.
We're reaffirming the range and the only assurance that we're really indicating at least earnings per share at the acquisition-related costs.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the -- at the current inflation levels that you're looking at your input costs if you look out into fiscal '12 would you expect the rate of increase of the year-over-year inflation to be better or worse than what you're seeing right now? Well it's early to call 2012 but we would not -- we would expect to see higher prices and some continued inflation but not at the level that we've seen this year.
Inc.</strong> So with the inventory management that you are working on this run rate of inventory being about 17% of sales that should definitely come down late this year early next year? Well again we're working hard on managing our inventories and the volatility environment is such that we're reluctant to give you a specific projection on that.
We would expect to start to see underlying improvement in particular in our finished goods area as we progress through the end of this year and into next year.
But in total inventory given the cost environment we want to assess that at year end and come back to you with a specific projection.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just had a couple of questions for you here.
The first one in relation to your cost increases for the second half similar to an earlier question are those primarily coming through in Industrial and primarily therefore in sort of pass-through costs? Or is it sort of across the board or is it even more of your Consumer business related too? And then talk about the second half inflation here.
It's fairly balanced.
We're seeing across both of our businesses.
I mean Alan referred to some of the headline commodities that impact the Industrial business mostly and you can see follow those and see those.
But as we indicated as well we're seeing it in packaging and pepper so it's -- we're feeling the pressures across both businesses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And are you -- so the given incremental inflation is there more pricing to come or -- and I guess I'm really looking more at the Consumer business or the idea just to use the CCI savings to offset that and not actually bring it to the consumer? Yes.
Pricing is the last lever that we want to pull and we're evaluating whether there will be additional pricing actions.
Right now we haven't made any decisions on that.
But the first thing that we attempt to do is to offset it with productivity.
And so that's our objective.
We're not at a point yet to declare whether we're going to take additional pricing in the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just 2 quick ones.
First one just to be clear on that $6 million increase in the third quarter that's not incremental that's sort of part of the full year plan just happen to be a little bit more weighted to the third quarters.
Is that the way to say it? Yes.
That's the way to think about it.
Our second quarter advertising spend was roughly in line with last year.
Our third quarter advertising spend is going to be up a little bit compared to last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then my final question just to understand -- I guess really a question for Gordon.
You had a couple of acquisitions here couple of good sized ones with that.
Your balance sheet though looks it will still be in pretty good shape.
So is it -- you just curtailing share purchase.
Is that sort of done for this year? I guess when I start looking at my cash flow projections and where the balance sheet stands I would argue you could do that -- you could get back to repurchasing shares in 2012.
But I want to understand kind of where you want the debt EBITDA or your debt levels to stand here going forward? While we manage to a debt-to-EBITDA range of say 1.5% to 1.7%.
And we expect to be higher than that by year end.
So for the moment we are curtailing our share repurchase.
Again we'll reevaluate this at year end as we look into cash flow and projections next year and determine whether or not it's appropriate for us to go back into the share repurchase market.
Our next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin of Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just wondering if you would comment on current consumer behavior trends in the U.S.
Are consumers eating more at home changing their purchase patterns any kind of update there? Yes we're not seeing -- we are seeing consumers continue to eat at home and we're seeing some softness in the food service sector which is impacting our Industrial business a little bit.
We're seeing a little bit of a different pattern than we saw in 2008 and 2009 where we saw a significant growth in dry seasoning mixes during then.
And what we're seeing now is more flat dry seasoning mixes.
So there may be a little bit of that change.
Certainly everything we're hearing from customers that consumers are buying closer to when they need the products they're spending less on their trips because they're trying to manage through that and buying a lot closer to paydays.
LLC</strong> Okay and then congratulations on all your acquisition.
Are there any opportunities for cross-selling or bringing products to different markets? Are you that far along yet in the stat analysis? Absolutely.
We go into -- into these with the idea that we've got great products in all of our markets and that we want to bring those products to new consumers wherever they are.
And that's really what we've done with all of our acquisitions.
We'll do things like we did with Ducros with Grinders and bring those around the world.
We're doing the same thing with Slow Cookers.
So we see great opportunities with these new countries and new channels of distribution to bring innovative new products to them.
LLC</strong> That's great.
Our next question is from the line of Rob Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Actually just 2 questions.
One is there anyway to quantify all of these distribution gains that you have in the Americas? And what I'm trying to get at is maybe this is like a gift that keeps on giving for a few more quarters you mentioned Hispanic items in the West I think Billy Bee Honey in Canada is there anyway to quantify these things? And then lastly just in the language of the press release in the Americas you said you're adjusting your promo activities.
In the EMEA you're redirecting brand marketing support.
It sounds like you're kind of course correcting in the middle of the year but the first half was a good first half.
Your volume is up your pricing is up.
So what's causing you to have to make these changes in the middle of the year? And are they disruptive or is the trade asking for them? What -- maybe you can just help me understand exactly what's changing and how significant it is? To answer the first question it's kind of hard to specifically quantify the impact of the new distribution.
But as they come on there is certainly a gift that keeps on giving because we'll keep lapping the impact of the new distribution and our objective is to keep growing the business as we get new distribution.
So we think that will -- but we've taken that into account with our sales guidance.
In terms of the course correction I would say it's more we're adapting our programs to the environment and specifically in the U.K.
where we're not getting the volume growth that we would like to see.
Well I agree we've had a good first half to the year.
But I would say it's more tweaking and changing our mix than necessarily a big course correction in the middle of the year.
In the U.S.
what's changing? In the U.S.
we're continuing our programs.
But we're going to keep emphasizing the value of our products on meals.
Our next question is from the line of Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
I guess couple of questions.
Gordon can you say what the new run rate on the interest expense should be with roughly I guess $400 million or so leaving the building for the 2 acquisitions? Well we're in the process of evaluating our new capital structure as you see it's potentially going to the debt markets.
So I guess I'd prefer for us to have that activity done before I give a specific number.
But I mean you can look at incremental $400 million in the current rate environment and obviously it will be a mix of what's available in the medium term and commercial paper.
So using the incremental $400 million and some rates there that's probably the best rate.
We also have cash available overseas that we will be using to fund it.
Approximately $200 million exists overseas already and we'll be using that to help fund the acquisitions as well.
Okay.
And the $2 million transaction cost in the quarter and I guess you're going to have another one in the third quarter I assume on the segment basis that's all run through the Consumer business? Yes.
We're -- the vast majority will run through the consumer yes because these businesses are largely Consumer businesses.
Okay.
And then getting back to just last the $200 million overseas maybe I'm just missing something but you only have $48 million of cash on the books? Yes.
Well we periodically pull that back on a loan basis.
So we carry higher commercial paper balances on average throughout the year.
But periodically we pull that back to pay that down.
So there is an amount of cash overseas of about $200 million.
Okay.
All right.
And then Alan I'm kind of wondering if you could just comment a bit because I'm just kind of struck by -- when you go through and I appreciate the detail on the 2 acquisitions but I'm just kind of struck by the difference.
In the Kohinoor one in India you paid -- even adjusting for the 15% interest that you don't have you paid call it 1.5-plus times it's growing at a double-digit rate.
But I guess it's just going to be a couple of pennies accretive which I guess points to it being a pretty low-margin business versus the Polish business you paid close to 3x sales it's growing at a decent rate but it's materially accretive given that.
So I mean the sales aren't all that different between the 2 businesses.
So is it -- maybe it's just as simple as just a difference in the margin or is -- or are you planning on spending more back into one versus the other maybe if you could just kind of help me with that? Yes.
The business in India is a business that's going to see investment business spending as we drive and grow that.
We're excited about that market and we're making the investment for the long-term growth.
Eastern Europe which is a more developed market we are going to invest we're going to bring new products.
But there -- but it's not to the degree of what we will see in India.
And I guess I think the Polish business that was an auction.
But was the India one an auction or was that just based on your connections? It was based on a long-term relationship that we've had with the family that owned it and an ongoing discussion with them and -- to maintain a long-term partnership.
That as you know it's a joint venture which we're very very happy to be able to do.
And in Poland it's an outright acquisition.
Okay and then last question it just seems -- I don't remember how asked this but somebody asked about China.
And I was thinking more on the consumer side.
A couple of years ago you had to go through like a reset of the product lines.
And I think you actually had even to cut back on SKUs.
But it seems like over the last few quarters or so that that business has gained a lot of traction.
I mean my guess is it isn't really big in the scheme of things.
But are you just -- like have you kind of hit on a new structure or formula over there or a new distributor that seems to be working? Well what we've continued to do is bring new products to the market and that's been a help.
And a lot of our growth has been as we expand more of a direct presence into other cities that's helped.
Whereas in the past what you're talking about is we were in the soybean oil business in China through distributors and we found that that wasn't the right business mix for us.
So we've refined the mix and feel that we have the right products.
We still see opportunities for innovation but more along expanded distribution and expanded our presence into other markets or other cities.
Okay.
I'll pass it on.
As we're running past 9:00 I think we'll end it here and I'm glad to take any calls afterward.
Thank you for participating in the call today.
Through July 7 you can access the replay of the call at (877) 660-6853.
The account number for the replay is 309 and the ID number is 372710.
You can listen to a replay also on our web site later today.
I welcome any additional questions you have.
You can reach me at (410) 771-7244.
Greetings and welcome to the McCormick's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Joyce Brooks Vice President Investor Relations for McCormick.
Thank you.
Ms.
Brooks you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our review of McCormick's third quarter financial results and latest 2011 outlook.
We've posted a set of slides to accompany today's call at our website ir.mccormick.com.
With me are Alan Wilson Chairman President and CEO; and Gordon Stetz Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer.
Alan is going to begin with an update on our business and the current operating environment and then Gordon will discuss our third quarter financial performance and latest guidance.
After that we look forward to discussing your questions.
As a reminder our presentation today contains projections and other forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other factors.
In addition certain information that we will present today are non-GAAP measures.
This includes certain financial results from 2010 that exclude items affecting comparability.
We present this non-GAAP information for comparative purposes alongside the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found in the presentation slides for our call.
It's now my pleasure to turn the discussion over to Alan.
Thanks Joyce.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
In the third quarter we delivered strong top line growth and a solid profit result.
In local currency we grew sales 11% a step up from our 5% sales increase in the first half of 2011.
We're driving this growth with product innovation expanded distribution and increased brand marketing support along with pricing actions.
We reported a double-digit increase in each of our 2 segments and in a number of our operating regions.
Of particular note this quarter was a 5% increase in volume and product mix for our consumer business which was accomplished during a period when pricing also rose 5%.
The increase was led by our Americas business and was broad-based with increases in grilling products dry seasoning mixes authentic ethnic cuisines Zatarain's Simply Asia and Thai Kitchen as well as our sales of the private label products that we produce for some of our major customers.
We also had a favorable impact from customers that purchased product in anticipation of a fourth quarter price increase.
On the industrial side of our business we grew sales in local currency at a double-digit rate in each of our 3 regions with sales in China up 30%.
In markets around the world this performance was driven by demand from quick-service restaurants and our supply of seasonings for snacks.
Earnings per share was $0.69.
Several factors affected profit this quarter as Gordon will discuss in more detail but I will share the major drivers.
Positively impacting EPS this quarter were higher sales.
Our cost savings for McCormick Comprehensive Continuous Improvement program CCI and discrete tax items.
Offsetting a portion of these increases were our additional investment in brand marketing support which was up 27% for the quarter and a further escalation in our raw and packaging materials costs.
For these reasons as we anticipated our third quarter profit growth moderated from the double-digit increase in earnings per share that we reported in the first half.
For the full year we remain on track with our 2011 sales and profit outlook.
During my remarks this morning I'd like to cover 3 topics and will begin with comments about the completion of our investments in Kamis and Kohinoor as well as a few remarks about a smaller acquisition in the United States.
Next I'd like to go a bit in depth into the current environment including our input costs and pricing actions as we head into our fourth quarter and look ahead to 2012.
Finally I'll share why I'm pleased with our momentum as we kick off the fourth quarter McCormick's peak selling period.
Earlier in September we completed the acquisition of Kamis and our Kohinoor joint ventures.
As stated in our June call these 2 strategic deals give us a leap forward in executing against our emerging markets strategy.
The acquisition of Kamis is an excellent complement to McCormick's business in Western Europe and our recent joint venture in Turkey.
Kamis is a brand leader in spices seasonings mustards and other flavor products in Poland with distribution subsidiaries in Russia Romania and the Ukraine.
The purchase price for this business was approximately $286 million.
Kamis will be managed under Lawrence Kurzius the President of McCormick International; and by Malcolm Swift our President in Europe Middle East and Africa.
We've welcomed the Kamis employees to McCormick and named one of our business leaders in Europe Fiona McDonnell [ph] as General Manager and she's now on site.
Our integration plans began in the pre-close period and our integration team is fully engaged.
Sales of this business have been increasing at a double-digit rate and we intend to continue this growth through new product introductions brand marketing programs and penetration of other markets in Central and Eastern Europe.
The Kohinoor joint venture establishes a new platform for growth in India and demonstrates our commitment to invest and grow in this region.
Our investment was approximately $113 million.
This gave us an 85% interest in the newly formed joint venture.
The Kohinoor brand is one of the top national brands in the basmati rice category in India with products reaching over 350 000 retailers and sales growing at a double-digit rate.
Kohinoor will be managed under Lawrence Kurzius as well as Paul Beard President of Asia Pacific who many of you know.
One of McCormick's senior leaders Satish Rao has been named Managing Director of the joint venture and has relocated to India.
We've taken steps to achieve a smooth transition for this business and we have met with all of our distributors to ensure business continuity.
We produced new advertising to be launched in the fourth quarter featuring Bollywood stars using Kohinoor products in a family setting.
You can access a fact sheet for each of these businesses on our website which contains more detailed information.
During the third quarter we acquired the assets of Kitchen Basics for $38 million.
Kitchen Basics is a leading brand of ready-to-serve shelf-stable liquid stock in North America.
As a key flavor ingredient consumers use stocks to add depth and flavor to a variety of dishes such as gravies and soups.
Annual sales of Kitchen Basics are approximately $25 million and have increased at a double-digit pace for the past 3 years.
We expect to continue to grow the brand with expanded distribution and product innovation.
This acquisition is expected to be immediately accretive to earnings.
Acquisitions are a key part of our 3-pronged growth strategy and we're extremely pleased with what we accomplished in 2011 as a result of our teams' diligence persistence and financial discipline.
We are having success this year not only with acquisitions but with our other growth strategies launching new products investing in brand marketing and expanding distribution.
However we're also feeling the impact of the current economic environment.
Many consumers are struggling in this economy.
They're making tough choices and some are altering their shopping patterns.
In the U.S.
and the U.K.
we've seen a shift in private label sales for basic ingredients like pepper garlic and cinnamon and we've seen a shift in our sales towards alternative channels like dollar stores and warehouse clubs.
In response we continue to gain new distribution in all channels.
Our latest win is placement of 9 branded items including extracts and gravy mixes in Sam's Club locations across the United States.
Another action we're taking is to emphasize the value of our brands.
We've added resources to analyze and optimize the effectiveness of promotional price points and the timing of these promotions.
Through traditional and digital medium we're highlighting product differentiation and usage ideas.
Secondary placement is an additional way that we separate our brands from private label as well as our product innovation.
Another challenge in this environment is the steep rise in material costs not only for commodities but for many of our spices and herbs.
We began the year expecting 7% to 8% cost inflation and through the first half we managed this through pricing actions and our continuous Comprehensive Continuous Improvement CCI cost savings.
In the third quarter we began to experience further increases in our raw materials.
We're now expecting a double-digit rate of material cost inflation in 2011 and we expect these higher costs to persist through 2012.
To illustrate this let's take a look at one of our top 5 raw materials black pepper.
Black pepper is a crop that has a long history of fluctuation but has hit historic highs.
Slide 9 shows that the cost of pepper has more than doubled in the past 1.5 years.
Similarly costs have escalated for red pepper nutmeg cinnamon cloves cumin turmeric and many other items.
There are several factors influencing the spice and herb markets at this time which include poor weather conditions in some of our growing regions; farmers’ shift to growing more lucrative crops that are less labor-intensive such as coffee cassava rubber and palm oil; increased global demand and a weakening U.S.
dollar.
Beyond spices and herbs the costs of packaging fuel and energy have remained steady but at an elevated level.
So how are we responding to this cost pressure? First we're leveraging our global procurement team for insights and smart decisions on strategic inventory.
As we've reported throughout 2011 our inventory is up due in part to higher strategic inventories.
While neither Gordon or I want to see more inventory on the balance sheet this is one way to effectively manage our purchase of spices and herbs.
Second our CCI cost savings program is a vital means of offsetting a portion of the increase.
We've raised our projected savings for 2011 to at least $50 million which is approaching the level reached in 2010 of $54 million.
Third is pricing actions.
For our consumer business we increased prices as we headed into 2011 to offset a portion of the cost inflation.
In response to the latest increase we've begun to implement additional price increases in both brand and private label items.
In North America the average increase will be about 5%.
Depending on the underlying raw materials and price thresholds the increase will range from a low level on certain items like extracts to a double-digit rate on black pepper.
In our industrial business as I indicated higher ingredient costs lowered profit in the third quarter.
As many of you know we have a pricing protocol to pass through the higher cost of major commodities to our customers materials like dairy ingredients wheat and soybean oil.
However these protocols do not extend to items via a commodity trading market such as spices and herbs.
To address this we are working with our customers to adjust pricing for these items and expect to get pricing in place over the next few months.
In the meantime we expect profit for the industrial business to be under pressure in the fourth quarter and to remain under pressure in the early part of 2012.
To summarize this portion of my remarks our business is being challenged by a difficult economy a weaker consumer and escalating material costs.
We're addressing these challenges by adapting our marketing efforts and promotional activity and taking prices where we need to.
Throughout this period of volatility the fundamentals of our business remain sound and we've made good progress with our sales growth initiatives progress that we're seeing continuing into the fourth quarter.
We have a strong lineup of activity as we head into this important selling period.
During the fourth quarter secondary displays are an essential way for retailers to avoid out-of-stocks on key holiday items.
We have displays being shipped to complement the merchandising strategy for all of our major U.S.
customers.
We're planning to increase brand marketing support at least $5 million for the programs behind dry seasoning mixes Hispanic products seasoning blends and the Thanksgiving holiday in the United States.
In Europe we have incremental marketing support behind our Vahiné dessert page in France and an integrated digital and PR campaign for Slow Cookers in the United Kingdom.
And in China we have new Grinders advertising that features a chef hosting a cooking class with consumers.
Finally we expect a lift from new products.
In addition to items introduced early in 2011 we've launched Recipe Inspirations in the United Kingdom and in the U.S.
a line of authentic Hispanic dry seasoning mixes premium-grade Grill Mates barbecue sauces new Lawry’s dry seasoning mixes and 4 new reduced sodium dry seasoning mixes.
Results from our other reduced sodium products indicate that 75% of sales are incremental for the category.
We have good sales momentum heading into the fourth quarter and an incremental impact from Kamis Kohinoor and Kitchen Basics.
A combination of this increased volume our pricing actions and some favorable foreign currency exchange rates have us on track to achieve strong sales growth in 2011.
Before I turn it over to Gordon I want to recognize and thank McCormick employees in locations around the world who are driving our success with excellent sales growth above target CCI savings completion of acquisitions and a joint venture that expand our global portfolio of leading brands.
Gordon? Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our financial performance for the third quarter.
At the bottom line we achieved $0.69 of earnings per share in the face of significant cost increases and with an increase in our investment in brand marketing support.
Our earnings per share this quarter included the benefit of favorable discrete tax items.
At the top line we exceeded our projections for sales growth in many parts of our business.
In total sales for the quarter rose 16% with an 11% increase in local currency.
Volume and product mix was up 6% and the pricing actions we've taken in response to higher material costs added 5%.
As seen on Slide 14 we grew consumer business sales 15% with a 10% increase in local currency.
In the Americas region we grew consumer business sales 12% in local currency with equal contributions from volume and product mix and from pricing.
About half of the increase in volume and product mix an estimated $10 million was the result of customer purchases in advance of a fourth quarter price increase.
This buy-in is expected to lower fourth quarter consumer sales in the Americas by $10 million.
Another thing to keep in mind when projecting fourth quarter sales for this part of our business was a shift in sales from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010 for an estimated $10 million that related to customer purchases in advance of our previous price increase.
Growth in a number of product lines drove the other half of the increase in volume and product mix in the Americas.
During the quarter we increased our marketing support behind core McCormick products and the Zatarain's brand.
This investment drove a significant increase in our McCormick brand dry seasoning mixes products that consumers can use to make an inexpensive meal for their family dishes like chili taco stews and pasta.
We achieved double-digit increases in the sales of Grill Mates featured in a great digital media campaign and our authentic Asian products under the Simply Asia and Thai Kitchen brands.
Sales of these brands were boosted with some great new products that include a line of dipping sauces.
In the third quarter we also had a pickup in sales of private label due in part to our distribution gains in 2011.
We are monitoring consumption trends closely and as Alan indicated are developing new tools to help optimize price and promotions on brand and private label both of which offer our retail customers an attractive profit.
In Europe the Middle East and Africa EMEA we grew consumer sales 22% with a 7% increase in local currency.
Both pricing and favorable volume and product mix contributed to growth this quarter.
This increase is a nice improvement from previous quarters.
We continued to have a good performance in France which benefited from brand marketing support distribution gains and a number of new product introductions.
Also contributing to growth this period were export sales into developing markets.
We also saw steadier results in some of the smaller markets like Spain and Portugal which had steep declines in the year-ago period.
In the U.K.
we are operating in a competitive retail environment where private label share has increased in many categories.
We have redirected a portion of our brand marketing support to emphasize to consumers the value of our products and we have also accelerated the development of several new products which are differentiated from our competitors in the marketplace.
While the U.K.
continues to be a challenging market our actions led to a modest increase in volume and product mix this period.
In the Asia Pacific region consumer sales rose 18% and in local currency were up 3%.
Both pricing actions and favorable volume and product mix contributed to this increase.
This was led by a 7% increase in China in the third quarter where we have a rebranding initiative underway and some new television advertising.
Operating income for our consumer business increased 5% to $101 million with the favorable impact of higher sales and CCI cost savings.
These increases were offset in part by the escalation of material costs and a $7 million increase in brand marketing support.
Let's take a look at the sales performance for our industrial business on Slide 15.
For this part of our business we also grew sales at a double-digit rate up 17% in total and 12% in local currency.
This is particularly impressive given overall food service trends.
McCormick continues to benefit from its strong global relationships with some of the top quick-service restaurants which as a group are faring better than other restaurant formats in today's environment.
Industrial sales in the Americas grew 14% and in local currency rose 12%.
Volume and product mix added 7% of the increase.
This was driven in part by a double-digit increase in volume and product mix with food manufacturers including sales of snack seasonings and ingredients.
Many of these products featured all-natural ingredients reduced sodium and other healthy attributes for which we continue to see high demand.
We also increased sales of food service products led by new products and expanded distribution with quick-service restaurants.
Sales of branded food service items to the distributor channel were also up in the third quarter.
In EMEA our industrial business continued a run of strong sales growth.
We grew third quarter sales 21% and in local currency 11%.
Favorable volume and product mix added 7% with the remainder coming from pricing actions.
As in the prior 2 quarters the increase in volume and product mix was led by greater demand from quick-service restaurants for products we supply from operations in the U.K.
Turkey and South Africa.
In the Asia Pacific region industrial business sales rose 30% and in local currency grew 17%.
Sales in China drove this result with a 30% increase in local currency this period.
We are achieving exceptional growth in this market as we support the rapid expansion of quick-service restaurants.
This period we also benefited from the promotional activities of these customers.
Operating income for the industrial business declined 8% to $28 million in the third quarter.
While this business had the benefit of higher sales and CCI cost savings we were significantly impacted by rising material costs.
As Alan described we are going beyond the key commodities and working with our customers to respond to increases in other ingredients such as spices and herbs with increased pricing.
This pricing activity will continue through the next quarter and because our pricing actions are lagging these cost increases we expect further profit pressure in our industrial business.
Margins for this business are under pressure due in part to higher costs as well as the effect of higher prices on net sales when calculating percentage margins.
Margin was also impacted by the mix of our business during the third quarter as a result of buying patterns and other customer activity.
Our strategy for the industrial segment continues to be to develop and grow the business through value-added higher-margin products.
For the total business third quarter operating income rose 2% from the year-ago period and operating income margin was below the prior year period at 14%.
Year-to-date we have grown operating income 7% and operating income margin is down 30 basis points.
At the gross profit line we achieved a 9% increase in gross profit dollars with the strong sales performance and CCI cost savings.
However gross profit as a percentage of net sales declined 250 basis points.
This decrease in gross profit margin was the net effect of increased prices higher costs and our CCI savings and the decline is expected to continue into the fourth quarter.
As a result we expect gross profit margin to be down for the fiscal year which is consistent with the outlook we presented back in January.
SG&amp;A rose 13% from the third quarter of 2010 but as a percentage of sales SG&amp;A was down 60 basis points.
This period SG&amp;A included an $8 million increase in brand marketing support up 27% and $1 million of transaction costs related to Kamis and Kohinoor.
The tax rate came in favorable at 26.8% due to $5 million of discrete tax items.
As you analyze third quarter results keep in mind that we also had significant discrete tax items in our year-ago results.
In the third quarter of 2010 discrete tax items added $16 million to net income.
Of this prior year amount $14 million related to the reversal of a significant tax accrual for a closed tax year.
This tax accrual was recorded based on uncertainties about the tax aspects of transactions where the company reorganized its European operations and divested certain joint ventures.
This reversal increased earnings per share by $0.10 in the third quarter of 2010 and was treated as a non-GAAP adjustment.
As you think about tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 let me remind you that we also had a significant tax variance in the fourth quarter of 2010.
During this period the repatriation of cash from foreign subsidiaries resulted in foreign tax credits in the U.S.
that added about $0.08 to earnings per share that quarter.
Moving to income from unconsolidated operations we had a slight increase this quarter which was impressive given the impact of higher soybean oil on our joint venture in Mexico where mayonnaise is a leading item.
Even with the cost pressure this business grew sales at a double-digit rate and achieved higher income.
Our unconsolidated joint venture in India Eastern Condiments also contributed to the higher income while our smaller joint ventures had a small decline in profit this period.
We are not yet reporting any profit from the new joint venture in Turkey but have made great progress in the past year and have launched 42 items nationally with a Ducros and [indiscernible] brand.
We are beginning to gain distribution and are encouraged by the early results.
At the bottom line as shown on Slide 19 earnings per share was $0.69 compared to $0.76 in the third quarter of the prior year.
Excluding the impact of the significant tax reversal in the year-ago period this was an increase of $0.03 an amount comprised of $0.01 from operating profit including an unfavorable $0.01 from transaction costs related to Kamis and Kohinoor $0.01 from this year's tax rate when compared to the rate in the third quarter of 2010 and $0.01 from the net impact of smaller items including our share buyback activity in the past 12 months.
I'd like to turn next to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We have discussed the effects of the current economic climate on our income statement and our pricing actions cost inflation and sales trends.
McCormick's balance sheet and cash flow have also been impacted primarily in our management of working capital.
As we have moved into this higher cost environment we increased our strategic inventory positions in several spices and herbs crops that do not have hedging options other than outright purchase.
We also accumulated higher inventory levels of crops sourced from growing regions exposed to political risks such as North Africa and Egypt.
In addition to higher levels of raw material the cost of our raw material inventory has led to a significant increase in inventory.
Foreign exchange rates is a third factor that affected inventory.
Despite these increases improving working capital remains an important priority for our business.
As indicated last quarter a key initiative currently underway is the implementation of a new inventory management process in North America.
Once we fully implement this system and begin to drive reductions in our inventory in North America we will turn our attention to implementing these new processes in other parts of our business.
For the 3 quarters ended August 2011 net cash flow from operations was $86 million compared to $185 million in the year-ago period -- I'm sorry $145 million in the year-ago period.
Our growth in net income was more than offset by increased working capital.
During the third quarter we issued $250 million of 10-year 3.9% notes to finance in part our acquisitions.
We also entered into a new 5-year $600 million revolving credit facility which replaced our existing $500 million facility which was due to expire in June of 2012.
The all-in drawn pricing on this new credit facility is LIBOR plus 0.875%.
Early in September we completed our acquisition of Kamis and the Kohinoor joint venture for a combined price of $399 million financed with cash and debt.
Our share repurchase program remains curtailed while we pay down the borrowings associated with these investments and return to our target debt level.
At August 31 2011 $270 million remains on our $400 million share repurchase authorization.
Even with these purchases and increased working capital our balance sheet remains strong and we have the capacity to continue to pursue further success with our acquisition activity.
Let's finish up with our latest financial outlook for 2011 on Slide 21.
We are reaffirming the full year guidance set forth in our June earnings call.
We expect to grow sales 6% to 8% in local currency which includes 1% of sales from Kamis and Kohinoor as indicated in our previous outlook.
We continue to expect favorable currency to add 2% to sales at prevailing exchange rates.
As discussed earlier for the full year we are projecting a decline in gross profit margin at least $50 million in CCI cost savings and an increase in brand marketing support that is in line with our sales growth.
For the fourth quarter we plan to increase marketing support by at least $5 million.
Our outlook for 2011 earnings per share remains $2.74 to $2.79.
Given our year-to-date results this implies a range of $0.93 to $0.98 in the fourth quarter.
In our June earnings call we lowered our earnings per share guidance by $0.06 to reflect an estimated $9 million of transaction costs related to the completion of the Kamis and Kohinoor deals.
We incurred $2 million of these costs in the first half of 2011 which lowered earnings per share $0.01.
At the time of our June call we expected to complete these deals by the end of the third quarter and to record the remaining $7 million of transaction costs which would have lowered our third quarter earnings per share by $0.05.
We now expect the transaction cost to total $11 million instead of $9 million.
We expect the reduction to 2011 earnings per share to be $0.07 rather than $0.06.
Because the Kamis and Kohinoor deals were completed in early September rather than in the third quarter let me provide you with the timing of these costs.
Of the $11 million we recorded $2 million in the first half approximately $2 million in the third quarter and expect to record $7 million in the fourth quarter.
Likewise the reduction to earnings per share impact was $0.01 in the first half $0.01 in the third quarter and an estimated $0.05 to be recorded in the fourth quarter adding up to the full year impact of $0.07.
To recap there is a $0.01 increase in the impact of transaction costs for the full year and a shift of $0.05 that had been in our third quarter outlook and is now expected to be recorded in the fourth quarter.
Let me summarize.
McCormick is adapting its business to the challenges of today's environment adjusting our marketing programs merchandising activities and product innovation to achieve sales growth.
We are carefully managing our pricing actions and our working capital and are driving down costs with our CCI program.
As a result we are well-positioned and have good momentum heading into our fourth quarter and look for 2011 to be a year of strong financial performance.
Thank you and I would like to turn it over to the operator to take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Thilo Wrede of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little bit more background have you already filled the channel there? You talked about I think 9 SKUs that you have nationwide now.
Is there a chance that that will grow in the future? Any more color would be appreciated.
Yes without getting into too many specifics what we -- we had a regional distribution at Sam's Club for about 2 years.
We expanded that earlier this year nationally with some Grill Mates items and then what we're talking about on this call is expansion of another 9 SKUs predominantly in the baking area such as extracts and gravy mixes and things like that.
We're real pleased with what we've seen there.
We can't speculate on what might happen in the future but we continue to grow and invest with not only that customer but customers in a number of channels.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question about your inventory.
Is your inventory still physically increasing? Are you increasing the volume of your inventory or are the increases now more driven by overall price increases currency and so on? And if the physical inventory is still growing when do you expect that to slow down or reverse? The majority of the increase is driven by the cost pressures and the strategic inventory and foreign exchange.
So about 45% of the increase is related to cost pressures in the environment we're in.
Maybe another quarter of it is related to strategic inventory purchases and maybe another 20% is related to foreign exchange.
The volume component is not as big of an issue as the cost pressures.
Obviously the environment we're in difficult to project cost inflation.
It's a volatile environment but we certainly aren't expecting a retreat in the cost environment anytime soon.
So we would expect to start to hopefully see this moderate as we go into 2011 -- I mean 2012.
Our teams are very focused though.
I don't want to say they're not focused on the volume opportunity to try and reduce inventories.
So they're looking at their modeling their safety stock assumptions their demand planning assumptions.
So it's still a big area but we are feeling it from the cost side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question about the pricing.
You talked about more pricing to come.
Are you expecting any major pushback from retailers as you go into the holiday season? We're expecting absolutely great execution by retailers as we head into the holiday season.
And we have announced and implemented pricing in a number of our markets the U.S.
consumer included.
So we'll see the impact of that as we go through but we feel like we're well-positioned with our display activities an increase in advertising which is right on with the kinds of things that we want to drive in the holiday period.
So we feel like we're well positioned for the fourth quarter.
Our next question is coming from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions here.
A couple of quarters ago you called out a concern about private label share gains going forward.
It seems as though that hasn't played out particularly harshly.
Is this less of a concern today? And why -- what do you think’s happened there? Well I think what we have seen is an increase in pricing in private label which has closed some of those gaps with the brand.
Certainly we're at some pretty high levels in terms of overall pricing points.
But as I look at the public data on what's happening with private label their pricing has increased at a rate that's higher than even the branded on a percentage basis.
So I think that's part of what's going on.
The other thing is I'd like to think that -- not only like to think but I'm pretty confident that our product innovation our increased advertising is really helping our brands hold up in this environment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And a quick follow-up on the sales in Africa that you mentioned.
Are you able to quantify how much benefit you got out of the European sales growth from those sales into Africa this quarter? And could you tell us a little bit about your strategy there? Is it a strategic move? Is it an explicit investment and deployment of resources in the region or is a bit more opportunistic and pool-based and led by local distributors? The first answer is it had a very minimal impact on our results in Europe this quarter.
And it is more opportunistic at this point.
We have a nice business in South Africa.
We think there's great opportunities.
But we are working with distributors in Northern Africa in places like Morocco and Nigeria to build and grow our business.
It's a business that we've had for a long time but we're seeing some success there.
The next question is from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just I wanted to ask you about the -- on the industrial side of the margin in that business I know obviously there's heavy cost inflation there.
But with the volume so strong I was surprised that the profit declined.
I guess one of the things I was thinking about would be how mix played a factor into that.
Was that an issue in terms of the profit result in the quarter? Or anything else we could kind of point to for that division? Yes certainly it was a combination of all other ingredients those non-major commodities which were a lot higher.
Typically we don't have pricing protocols on those and so it's more of a negotiation but they tend to balance each other out.
What's happening right now is everything is up and so it's more of a negotiation to be able to implement pricing on those commodities.
There absolutely was an impact in our industrial business on the mix of our business and so we sold more of the lower-margin items and less of the higher-margin items in this period so that was impacting our sales to an extent.
Gordon you want to add on that? No that's absolutely right.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Did you indicate then that fourth quarter profits would be down? You mentioned there would be pressure still.
Does that mean that you think they'll be down on the fourth quarter? Certainly the -- as we indicated the pricing protocols are on a lag so that's going to put pressure on it.
But the thing that can shift quarter-to-quarter is the mix.
As Alan indicated we have had some significant wins on some quick-service restaurants.
I'll say that some of those are in the lower margin part of it so whether they're down or flattish we don't expect a strong performance in the industrial profitability in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I just wanted to ask a question about 2012.
I know you don't want to give guidance so my question is I think you discussed or mentioned on the call you expect this heavy inflation to continue into next year.
Do you expect double-digit inflation in 2012 or is that going too far at this point? We do expect to see higher costs continuing into 2012.
We don't see at least in the commodities that impact us much that's going to cause it to decline or go down.
We're expecting in 2012 we’ll continue to see higher costs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And double-digit though may be going too far at this point to say that? Yes we're not ready to say that yet but certainly you've seen it continue to creep up as we've gone through this year that's for sure.
Our next question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is more regarding the guidance.
So it seems that your guidance for cost is higher than what it was before you're saying double digits.
You had a range before.
And acquisition costs are going to be higher but you didn't change EPS guidance.
Is this difference just a lower tax rate or is there something else in the SG&amp;A line that we should be thinking of or did I miss something? Actually this is Joyce your line is a little unclear so may I ask you to repeat your question please? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Can you hear me now Joyce? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry my question was regarding guidance.
It seems as though your cost guidance now you're saying it's going to be closer to 10%.
Before it was just a range.
And you increased your cost guidance on the acquisition but your EPS guidance range didn't change.
Does that mean that the offset what you're expecting in terms of higher cost is just a lower tax rate? I mean I know you also increased your CCI guidance but I'm just wondering if there's anything else in the SG&amp;A that we may be missing where you think there's an offset to these costs? Well there's a number of factors.
I mean obviously the strong sales growth is contributing -- has helped to offset some of those as well.
We've also been increasing our advertising and promotion as well to help drive sales.
So it's really a combination of factors.
I guess my takeaway would be that we're absorbing some of these increased costs and we're still achieving the results that we laid out for you in the beginning of the year and that's the strength of our underlying business that's doing that.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So is it fair to say that the sales have been better than you had expected so far? And how would you characterize your gross profit performance in third quarter relative to your own expectation? Well certainly sales have been stronger and gross profits it's probably fair to say it’s been a little more under more pressure than we had anticipated.
I will say we expected it to be under pressure as we proceeded through this year because we saw the cost increases as we indicated earlier in the year with the high-single-digit type numbers.
So we expected those to start to occur through the third and fourth quarter.
But I will say it's gotten higher as you can tell by the increases we've talked about on this call.
Research Division</strong> Yes and just one last one if I may on marketing spending.
I was impressed that even though you've had some margin pressure on the gross profit line you still continue to invest in your brands.
Can you help us understand now with these new acquisitions should we expect anything different in 2012? I mean how are you feeling overall about your level of marketing support as a percentage of sales? Are you thinking to continue to move that up and how much room is there to move it up? Well it's early to call 2012.
But our pattern and our expectation is that we'll continue to increase marketing spending either slightly above or pretty much in line with our sales increases.
In terms of the new brands that we've acquired they have good marketing programs.
We expect to continue to build on those and bring product innovation to them.
So I would expect -- our expectation is to continue to drive our brands with marketing as we have the last several years.
Our next question is from the line of Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> A few details.
Gordon I would like it if you could give us a tax rate estimate for fourth quarter.
I know you've given us an EPS range but it could be anything from 26% to 31% from what I can tell.
Second did you give any reason for why the transaction costs are higher on these acquisitions? What was the -- most of the time in these estimates you should be conservative in your estimates and this time we're running higher than expected.
And then lastly I guess for Alan on the industrial business.
A lot of us remember the restructuring of the industrial business many years ago.
I think it made the organization stronger.
And I'm just wondering if with your basic customers now and with the way the organization is structured are you better prepared for this inflationary period on your non-traded commodity costs? Sure.
Fourth quarter the underlying rate has been 31% as we progress through this year.
That has been the constant.
The more difficult component is sometimes the discrete items.
But if you think of about 31% rate for the fourth quarter and these transaction costs a lot of them are nondeductible that’ll push the rate up even higher so it could be as high as 33%.
So the only caveat I have is you sometimes have these discrete items that occur that can impact that.
But we would expect it to be closer to a 33%-type rate based on the underlying rate of 31% and the transaction cost impact.
In terms of the estimate of the due diligence costs clearly it went a little longer.
We were anticipating this being done in the third quarter.
You have to go through various regulatory filings due diligence et cetera with these transactions so the only answer I can give you is that it took a little longer it's a little more expensive than we had anticipated.
That's really all that had occurred.
In terms of the industrial question we do believe that our strategy to focus on major significant strategic customers is the right strategy.
I do believe we're well-positioned to deal with the high commodity.
We continue to gain business.
We continue to grow.
What we saw this time though is – it’s something that we learned is we have to continue to adjust our pricing protocols in a different environment.
And I think we're very well positioned to do that.
I know that's going to take some time and a lot of effort but I think we're well positioned.
Research Division</strong> Alan what kind of a pushback are you getting from these strategic customers on your efforts to take your prices up? Well in most cases our customers understand the pricing pressure but it's always a discussion it's always a difficult conversation because we're not the only ones walking in with increased prices and they're seeing it across the board.
And just like we'd see in our customer business they're seeing an impact with consumers as they continue to take higher pricing.
I would say we're having constructive discussions and we're working our way through these but it's always a process and conversation.
Our next question is from the line of Mitch Pinheiro with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> First could you give us some idea of what the pricing actions are the magnitude for consumer and the industrial in the fourth quarter? Yes.
In general it's about a 5% increase in consumer as we go into the fourth quarter.
Some items are almost nothing some items are more like double digit some of the commodities have really surged.
Industrial it's a little harder to pin down the specific pricing as we go into the quarter because a lot of it's commodity depends on when customers make contract decisions and things like that.
Because we'll price it based on the market at the time that we make those decisions.
But the overall impact we expect is going to be in that 5% range.
Research Division</strong> And 5% for the combined? For the combined across the board.
And I know that that kind of translates into an expectation that's about 5% in industrial as well but that's the way we see it today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How does your cost coverage look commodity costs? How far out are you bought? Well we don't disclose specifically how far we are and it varies by commodity.
But a good part of that inventory increase are positions that we've taken that will help us into next year that are at rates that are below the current market.
Research Division</strong> Roughly what percentage of your industrial business do you have a relationship where you're having like a direct pass-through where you're buying for your customers directly? That's a tough percentage for me to get to without kind of backing into it.
But with most of our major customers on major commodities we have those protocols.
The thing that makes it a little hard to get to is depending on the products the major commodities will be a big part or a smaller part of the costs that go into it.
So it's just hard to quantify that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As far as -- any channel mix dynamics in the consumer side that you can point out to as either different or changing? Well we're certainly seeing consumers shopping in more alternative channels like dollar and in club.
That's just been a shift that's been ongoing and accelerated in this environment.
That's why we feel good about our strategy to continue to expand our brand presence in those channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question.
As you look out you were very positive earlier in the year about the pipeline for innovation new products with your larger industrial customers.
As we're entering the end of the year here how does it look as you look out for the next 6 months? The industrial pipeline’s still pretty good.
And we expect that's going to continue just like we've seen.
We're positive on our consumer innovation as well.
Everybody recognizes to continue to grow and to continue to deal with some of these cost pressures we have to innovate.
We have to find things that excite consumers because they're willing to spend when the items are right and priced right and really do bring innovation.
So we're seeing a pretty good pipeline and continued activity with technical development in -- with our other customers.
Research Division</strong> I said last question.
I do have one more sorry.
In your marketing spend where are you seeing your greatest success your best ROI? Without question it's in the digital area.
It's a very effective and efficient spend.
It lends itself very well to the kinds of products that we sell the recipe marketing the word-of-mouth and the excitement that comes with it and we're going to continue to shift our spend more aggressively in that area.
We're coming up on 9:00.
We've got a number of folks still in the queue so we'll go as long as -- we'll try to get through everybody.
We'll just ask you to limit your questions please going forward.
Our next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just want to continue the discussion on the industrial business.
You talked about this just briefly a minute ago.
But is there any pullback from customers as they see these higher price increases? Are you seeing any change in demand from the industrial customers? We're not necessarily seeing a change in industrial customers and pullback but we are seeing a shift.
As a for instance food service distributors are a big part of our business and an important part of our business because we're selling branded products that carry good margins and that part of the segment’s under pressure.
We're seeing pretty good success with our quick-service restaurants restaurant customers.
Our next question is from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the sales looked quite good broadly across the business so compliments to that in this environment.
But just a couple of quick ones.
One I thought that the pricing in consumer is usually taken early in the year and you try not to put something through as we kind of get right into the holiday season.
So Alan what gives you confidence that putting through pricing even on some of the basic spice stuff isn't going to be met with consumer elasticity? We are in a little bit of a new world because it's been more than a decade since we've taken pricing as we head into the fourth quarter in our at least our U.S.
consumer business and we are watching those elasticities pretty closely.
We felt that we were at a point where we didn't have a choice because of the increased costs and our customers have understood that.
But we're going to continue to drive the investment in brand marketing the display activity and our promotion plans through the fourth quarter.
So we think we're positioned to help deal with that but we are in a little bit of new territory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the industrial side.
I guess I'm very surprised at the comments around the protocols because ever since vanilla hit my impression at least was that these protocols covered pretty much everything.
And it seems to me that you can always hedge the major ingredients like soybean oil or wheat or what have you and it was the items that are more obscure were the ones where you were in protocols and agreements with whatever it is to whichever customer it is to not get this kind of hit or exposure.
So I don't really understand what's happened and why again why the contracts aren't kind of broadly covering -- or the protocols aren't broadly covering the stuff that's hard to hedge to begin with? Well we’ve -- the biggest thing is those major commodities we've had less control of and the minor commodities have not typically been volatile.
They tend to offset each other they tended to be more consistent and reliable but what we're seeing is a continued upward pressure now that's forcing us to really change how we do that.
And so it's been a challenge to get those kinds of things passed through that it's just taken some time.
So we're working through them but our protocols really do address those major commodities where we can buy collaboratively with our customers.
And the only thing I'll add is it's not all due to that.
Again we talked about a mix component as well.
So I don't want to get that lost in the dialogue either.
Our next question is from Erin Lash of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was wanting to talk about acquisitions.
Obviously you've been quite acquisitive this year and you discussed the fact that you still have an appetite for acquisitions and I was curious where you felt some of those opportunities might lie depending on region category that sort of thing? Sure.
The acquisitions that we've made this year are acquisitions that we've worked on for a long time.
And we've been very interested and continue to expand in emerging markets Eastern Europe India China and Latin America.
We will continue to pursue growth areas in those markets.
In our more developed markets like Western Europe and North America we like to do tuck-in kind of acquisitions where flavor really matters and that's why we're doing -- we did Kitchen Basics in the past quarter because we believe we can bring innovation and continue to help people in how they cook in a segment that consumers continue to grow in.
So we believe that our acquisition strategy does 2 things: it expands the categories we're in but it expands geographically where we are.
And as you've seen through our history acquisitions are about 1/3 of our growth rate over the last 10 or 12 years.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
I just had one quick follow-up.
You mentioned I think last quarter that retailers were emphasizing or promoting private label products versus branded and I was wondering what you're seeing now and how you are thinking about that going into the fourth quarter with your planned price increases? Well we're still seeing retailers promote private label but as we always do in the fourth quarter we expect to see consumers buy the brands because they trust the products for their holiday meals and our display activity ramps up so aggressively in the fourth quarter that we always see our shares go up in the fourth quarter.
So we expect to see that continue.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Dickerson with Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> Just 2 very short ones.
I know we're short on time.
Just one was your FX guidance of the 2% for the year.
Is there any risk do you think to that as we go into Q4 just considering the appreciation we've seen in the dollar over the past month? There's always risk in a volatile world with currency but we got 3/4 of the year behind us.
I know obviously this is the biggest quarter we're entering into but FX as you saw in the results was 4.6% favorability.
So it's our best guess at the moment given the rate environment.
LLC</strong> Okay fine.
And I think you stated early on in your prepared remarks that you were tracking along to still meet your profit target or operating profit target.
And correct me if I'm wrong but I thought I haven't checked this recently but I thought your top line guidance originally for the year was 5% 7% growth and then EPS was 5% 7% growth.
I thought you were guiding to like the 0 to negative 2% operating profit growth for the year.
Is that what you were referring to? And either way is that a reasonable profit target for the year or just any comments on that? Our guidance have always been mostly around the top line and the earnings per share which has been consistent all year long.
The only change to the guidance that we've made that we’ve tried to make clear here is obviously the impact of all these acquisitions.
Other than the acquisition impact we’ve really been consistent since the beginning of the year on EPS and top line guidance as well as the gross profit margin where we've been indicating all along that we expect to see it down versus prior year.
Our next question is from Andrew Lazar Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up on inflation.
Of the I guess double-digit inflation that you're looking for in input cost this year can you give us a little bit of a sense of kind of how that tracked? So maybe directionally what it was in the first half maybe what you saw in terms of year-over-year inflation in the third quarter so we can get a sense of how that flows into the fourth? Does it ramp up dramatically into the fourth from here? Just trying to get a better read on that.
Obviously as we started the year as we indicated we had gross profit margin improvement in the first quarter.
People recall and we were making sure people are aware that we did not expect that to continue as we saw the increases start to occur as we progressed through the year.
We obviously knew the third and fourth quarters we’d experience it the most so I would suggest that what you just saw in the third quarter is probably what we could potentially expect going into the fourth quarter.
You do have a shift of business mix in the fourth quarter as the consumer part of our business ends up being a much bigger part of the portfolio but I'd say the types of increases that we expected are starting to occur – they occurred in Q3 and will occur in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last is it fair to say that the lag that you saw and expect a little bit more in terms of pricing versus cost is more due to really trying to -- seeing where costs kind of went more recently and then thinking obviously out into 2012 versus having tried to get pricing through a little earlier but running into roadblocks or delays from a whatever retailer or consumer standpoint? Yes we really haven't seen an impact in any delays.
It's more accelerating costs that are driving the need for pricing and so it's less of -- certainly we have to negotiate pricing but we haven't seen any delays in getting it implemented.
It's more the costs have gone quicker.
And I will say that part of our culture is that pricing is one of the last levers we want to pull as a company.
And so our teams try to do everything they can to manage costs and work with customers before we pull that pricing lever.
But we're just in an environment where we have to pull it faster.
Ladies and gentlemen we are almost out of time for questions.
We have time for one final question from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Wanted to ask about the acquisition environment.
With the pressure on raw material cost increases working capital pressures capital availability in general what are you seeing that doing to the people you've been talking to? Well certainly the environment is impacting everyone and different companies are in a different position with being able to take pricing again depending on the market that they’re in and the strength of their business.
We don't think that's going to either cause people to be more aggressive at selling their businesses or less willing to sell their business.
I think it's less of an impact but it certainly will impact how we value businesses as we go forward.
Go ahead Chuck.
I'm sorry.
I was just going to say about their working capital investments just carrying inventories going up for them is that hastening their decision to sell at all? I don't know that it's hastening their decision but we certainly see it impact the balance sheet.
I’m going to… All right.
Then what do you expect retailers to be doing over the next couple quarters as you try to push through additional pricing? Well I think retailers are responding the way that they typically have and we saw that as we headed into the fourth quarter where retailers did -- there was some amount of buy-in in advance of the price increase.
But I expect that retailers are doing the same things in our category that they are in others and those are finding -- those prices are finding their way to the shelves.
I want to thank everybody for participating.
I know it's been a long call but I did want to quickly wrap up.
And several factors impacted our results this period things like discrete tax items and the timing of our acquisition costs.
And while those make the job of analyzing results and projecting our outlook a little tougher we hope that we provided you what you need.
We do want to leave you with a couple of key takeaways.
First we demonstrated our ability to implement pricing actions while achieving higher volume and product mix in our year-to-date results.
Secondly we're adapting our business to the economic environment and today's consumer our product innovation and additional brand marketing support and are vigorously pursuing distribution opportunities.
And third we're investing for growth with accretive acquisitions and joint ventures while we exercise financial discipline and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
I appreciate your attention and I'll turn it over to Joyce to wrap up.
Thanks Alan.
I’ll leave my thanks to those listening on today's call.
Through October 5 you may access a telephone replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The account number for this replay is 309 and the ID number is 377603.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information I'd welcome a call at my number (410) 771-7244.
This concludes our call.
Greetings and welcome to McCormick's Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Joyce Brooks Vice President Investor Relations for McCormick.
Thank you.
Ms.
Brooks you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our review of McCormick's fourth quarter financial results and 2012 outlook.
We have posted a set of slides to accompany today's call at our website ir.mccormick.com.
With me are Alan Wilson Chairman President and CEO; and Gordon Stetz Executive Vice President and CFO.
Also joining us for the first time is Mike Smith who was named Vice President Treasury and Investor Relations in October.
Mike has been with McCormick since 1991 and brings to this role his experience in a variety of leadership positions most recently as Vice President of Finance for a U.S.
consumer business.
This morning Alan's going to begin with some highlights from 2011 and then discuss our perspective on the current business environment and McCormick's growth opportunities as we head into 2012.
Gordon will provide a review of our fourth quarter financial performance and introduce our 2012 financial guidance.
After that we look forward to discussing your questions and some closing remarks from Alan.
As a reminder our presentation today contains projections and other forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other factors.
As seen on slide 2 our forward-looking statement also provides information on risk factors that could affect our financial results.
In addition certain information that we will present today are not GAAP measures.
This relates to financial results from 2010 that exclude items affecting comparability.
We present this non-GAAP information for comparative purposes alongside the most recently comparable GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found in the presentation slides for our call.
It is now my pleasure to turn the discussion over to Alan.
Thanks Joyce.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
McCormick's financial results in the 2011 fourth quarter were a strong finish to a year of solid growth and important accomplishments.
We delivered these results in a period of volatile material cost and a challenging economic environment in many of our markets.
Our financial performance demonstrated the resiliency of our business and the ability of our leadership team and employees throughout the company to adapt to the current environment.
I want to recognize and thank our employees for their efforts and achievements.
We grew sales in the fourth quarter by 13% including a 5% benefit from our latest acquisition activity.
Pricing rose 6% yet we still achieved a 1% increase in volume and product mix.
Product innovation higher brand marketing and distribution gains helped drive the sales growth.
Fourth quarter earnings per share were $0.98 compared to $0.99 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Operating income rose 4% despite $7 million of transaction cost related to acquisitions completed in 2011 which lowered earnings per share by $0.05.
We also had an unfavorable impact from a higher tax rate increased interest expense and a slight decline in income from unconsolidated operations.
Gordon will go into more details but if you consider these headwinds we had solid underlying growth in earnings per share which reflected our strong sales performance and significant CCI cost savings.
For the full year we grew sales 11% and 9% in local currency.
This was well ahead of our initial expectation for 5% to 7% growth in local currency.
Acquisitions were not in our initial range and added 2% of our growth for the year.
Pricing added 5% to sales above our initial projection as we responded to a double-digit increase in material cost.
In light of these pricing actions we were extremely pleased with our volume and product mix which rose 2.5% in 2011 excluding the impact of acquisitions.
I want to spend a moment on our key sales drivers in 2011 and we'll start with Kamis in Poland and Kohinoor in India.
These businesses are helping to reshape our portfolio of leading brands around the world with more exposure in emerging markets.
The integration of these businesses has progressed well to date and we've maintained their pace of growth.
With the addition of these businesses and our projected growth in China Mexico and other countries we now expect sales in emerging markets to account for at least 13% of 2012 sales.
This is a significant increase from 2010 when sales in emerging markets accounted for 9% of sales.
Keep in mind that we have additional presence in these markets through our unconsolidated operations.
Income from these operations contributed 7% of our 2011 net income.
Product innovation continues to be a primary component of our sales growth.
New products launched in the past 3 years accounted for 9% of 2011 sales.
Rather than 1 or 2 big launches we achieved broad-based success across a number of our growth platforms.
In our consumer business we launched more than 200 new branded products in 2011 well ahead of our normal pace which is closer to 100.
These included 6 new World Flavors Recipe Inspirations in the U.S.
and the launch of this product line in Canada and the United Kingdom.
Grinders is another growth platform and we added new versions in the U.S.
the U.K.
and France along with an introduction of Grinders in China.
Our team in France developed nearly 40 new products including an organic line of spices and herbs and a number of Vahiné dessert items.
One of our biggest successes was here in the U.S.
with Zatarain’s frozen entrées.
Including new items we grew sales of Zatarain’s frozen entrées 40% and our sales of these new items now comprise nearly 1/4 of our total Zatarain’s brand sales.
For our industrial business we had strong demand for new products from food manufacturers particularly for flavor solutions that feature all-natural ingredients reduced sodium lower calorie and other healthy attributes.
In the U.S.
these types of health and wellness projects accounted for nearly 40% of our product development projects in 2011.
We're driving sales with brand marketing support.
Promotion and advertising reached $187 million in 2011 up 12% from 2010 and up 72% from 5 years ago.
As a percentage of sales brand marketing support continues to rise reaching 7.6% of net sales for our consumer business in 2011 up from 6.3% in 2006.
About 1/3 of the 2011 increase was in digital marketing one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support.
We had an effective digital marketing program behind Grill Mates in the U.S.
that contributed to a 7% unit increase in 2011.
Support behind our Hispanic products in the U.S.
including television and a sampling program helped drive a 9% increase in sales of these products which exceeded $100 million in 2011.
2011 was a particularly strong year for distribution gains.
Wins included both brand and private label with penetration of multiple channels: grocery club store dollar stores drug chains in the U.S.
and in Europe grocery medium and small store formats and discounters.
Our industrial business continues to benefit from the global expansion of strategic customers.
In 2011 we supported the opening of new quick service restaurant locations in China the Middle East Russia and for the first time India.
Cost savings from Comprehensive Continuous Improvements CCI is our fuel for growth.
CCI is our ongoing effort to improve productivity and reduce cost across the organization.
In 2011 our CCI cost savings funded incremental brand marketing support as well as helped to offset the unfavorable impact of increased material costs.
Led by our CCI champions and with the engagement of employees throughout the business we achieved $65 million in cost savings in 2011 a result that was well ahead of our initial goal for the year.
Since we embarked in our CCI activity in 2009 our cumulative savings have reached $156 million.
Our cash flow was clearly impacted by the material cost inflation that we faced in 2011.
Cash flow from operations was $340 million compared to $388 million in the prior year due largely to increased inventory.
The increase in material cost affected the value of the inventory we held and also led us to increase our raw material quantities of certain spices and herbs which is how we hedge these items.
As Gordon will discuss we expect to improve our cash flow in 2012.
We are committed to returning cash to shareholders and used $238 million of our cash for dividends and share repurchases in 2011.
In November McCormick's board approved an 11% increase in the quarterly dividend our 26th consecutive annual increase.
Including the dividends our total shareholder return was 13% for fiscal year ending November 30 2011.
For the 10 years ended November 30 our total annual shareholder return has been 11%.
This exceeds the return of the food group as well as the S&amp;P 500 as shown on Slide 8.
While we continue to operate in a difficult environment we expect a year of strong sales growth and higher profit in 2012.
While Gordon will discuss the financial outlook in more detail I'd like to spend the next few minutes on the current environment and our opportunities for growth in the year.
Based on recent discussions within the food industry there continues to be a focus on higher material cost and the impact of pricing actions.
So let's start with that topic.
In 2011 based on the strength of our brands and our industrial customer relationships we were able to offset a double-digit increase in material costs with a combination of pricing and CCI cost savings.
Our most recent action was a price increase of about 5% for our North American consumer business products and industrial food service items.
This went into effect in the fourth quarter and was taken in response to further material cost increases in the second half of 2011 which we expect to persist in 2012.
The effect of this pricing action will carry over into 2012 with an anticipated favorable sales impact in the first 3 quarters.
While the timing and percentage increase varied we've taken similar actions in a number of our other markets.
In order to gauge the impact of our price increases we've been actively monitoring and analyzing consumption information.
Based on our work to date we can state that retailers have accepted the pricing actions on our branded products and have reflected them in shelf prices.
Price increases have also been accepted on the private label products we supply.
In addition we've seen branded competitors take similar pricing actions.
Based on our analysis of recent U.S.
consumption data we've seen some general slowdown particularly in measured channels in both the category and our branded sales.
In addition the rate of growth for private label has also slowed in recent weeks.
Similar results have been seen in other food categories.
Our shipment trends during this period for both brand and private label have been in line with these consumption trends.
While other factors may be behind some of this near-term fluctuation we attribute a portion of the trend in branded spice and seasoning volumes to our pricing actions.
As those of you who have followed us for a while know it's not unusual for us to see an initial volume impact following a price increase.
In the upcoming quarters we plan to reallocate a portion of our brand value marketing to more coupons and other promotional tools.
We will monitor the situation closely as we expect this pressure on sales volumes to be a headwind in 2012 particularly in the first quarter results.
As for our outlook for material costs we expect further volatility in 2012.
Based on the insights of our global procurement team we expect our 2012 raw and packaging material increases to be broad based across our supply chain and then the aggregate to rise at a high-single digit rate.
At this time we believe we're priced appropriately based on this cost outlook and have no plans for further significant pricing actions in our consumer businesses.
For our Industrial business we continue to pass through increases on major commodities as well as on flavor ingredients including spices and herbs.
As explained in our September call the pricing actions for flavor ingredients occurred with a little bit of a lag but have been accepted by our customers.
Across both businesses we expect to offset projected 2012 material cost inflation with a combination of pricing actions including a carryover benefit from 2011 increases and CCI cost savings.
Pricing is expected to add about 5% to sales.
CCI cost savings for 2012 are expected to be at least $40 million.
This year's projects will include the consolidation of one of our manufacturing facilities in Canada and the creation of wet product manufacturing for our consumer business in North America.
This new capability will allow us to move production of Lawry's marinades from a co-packer in 2012 and establish a manufacturing base for our condiments sauces and spreads growth platform.
Even in this environment of higher prices we grew sales volume in 2011.
And in 2012 we have activity underway behind each of our 3 avenues of growth: base business innovation and acquisitions.
McCormick's leadership group will be discussing these in more depth at our April investor meeting but let me provide a quick overview this morning.
We'll be driving base business growth with brand marketing support.
We're planning to increase our 2012 brand marketing at least $10 million following our $20 million increase in 2011 and our programs will continue to adapt to today's consumer.
This includes another significant increase in digital marketing more Hispanic programs in the U.S.
and an emphasis on value to include targeted coupons.
Our new products will receive a portion of advertising support to build new awareness and trial.
For example all major U.K.
customers now have Recipe Inspirations on the shelf and we began our advertising campaign this month.
Also driving base business growth will be a carryover effect from some of the distribution gain in 2011.
And in 2012 we continue to pursue new distribution opportunities including further penetration of alternative channels and improving our category share.
Our product innovation activity is also designed to build share as well as differentiate our brand.
We have an exciting line of new products for our consumer business for the first part of 2012.
In the U.S.
we'll be introducing new Grill Mates rubs marinades and seasoning blends; Perfect Pinch varieties that include Southwest Sweet 'n Smoky; Gourmet blends; 5 new Lawry's items including Mediterranean Herb &amp; White Wine Marinade; 8 new products under our Simply Asia and Thai Kitchen banner; and additional varieties of Zatarain’s frozen entrées.
To date the restaging of our dry seasoning mixes in the U.S.
has included product reformulation with natural ingredients and new advertising.
In 2012 we'll introduce this next phase of this restaging which includes new flavor varieties new packaging design and new merchandising as well as an introduction of a premium line of gourmet dry seasoning mixes to prepare dishes like sweet basil and oregano bruschetta chicken.
We also have innovative -- innovation underway behind dry seasoning mixes outside the U.S.
with our limited addition items in the U.K.
In France our product development team has another busy year underway with plans for 20 new Ducros brand items and 10 Vahiné dessert products.
In China dry seasoning mixes jams and sauces will be among our new product launches.
On the industrial side of our business we have a robust new product pipeline in each of our 3 regions.
Customers continue to turn to McCormick as they work to improve the health profile of their products and at the same time deliver great taste.
This month we broke ground in China to create our Asian Technical Innovation Center where customers can come to collaborate with us on the development of on-trend consumer-preferred products.
Our third avenue of growth is acquisitions.
In our developed markets we're seeking strong brands like Kitchen Basics that could expand our flavor portfolio.
And we're expanding geographically through acquisitions with an emphasis on emerging markets.
In 2011 we completed transactions that meet both of these criteria and have created strong momentum for 2012.
Kamis is off to a great start.
The integration of Kamis is well underway and we are already pursuing growth opportunities.
One of these opportunities is to bring our category management expertise to this business.
In the first 3 months following the acquisition we've met with each of Kamis' top customers and in doing so uncovered numerous joint opportunities to improve product assortment and merchandising.
We also worked to build consumer demand during the holidays delivering more television ads in November and December that will run in either of the previous 2 years.
The integration of Kohinoor is also well underway.
We've augmented the Kohinoor management team and completed meetings with each major customer to ensure that the new leadership is well received and meeting expectations.
In 2012 this business will be continuing to build retail distribution against -- across India and develop new products for the market.
And just briefly to round out my remarks on acquisitions for Kitchen Basics in the U.S.
our 2012 focus is on product innovation and optimizing our brand position within the category of liquid stocks.
In Turkey in less than one year our new joint venture has developed 42 items and achieved 100% acceptance of all Ducros brand in the modern trade.
We are poised for rapid growth in 2012.
Toward the end of his remarks Gordon will discuss how these sales growth initiatives along with our pricing actions cost inflation and CCI program will shape our financial outlook.
But let me state that while we are cautious given the continued volatility in material cost and the economic pressure faced by the consumer in many of our markets I'm pleased with our prospects for growth in 2012.
We have excellent opportunities and initiatives underway in each part of our business.
I'll now turn it over to Gordon for a discussion of our fourth quarter financial results and then our 2012 guidance.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
Given the difficult economic situation that consumers are facing in many of our large markets we were encouraged by our solid financial performance for the fourth quarter and operating results which were generally in line with our expectations.
In each of our 2 segments we grew sales at a double-digit rate with a 13% increase for the total business.
Operating income was up 4% net of a 4% headwind from acquisition-related transaction cost and we delivered earnings per share of $0.98 compared to $0.99 in the fourth quarter of 2010 including the unfavorable impacts of these transaction costs and tax rate.
Let's start with top line growth and a look at our consumer business.
As seen on Slide 14 we grew consumer business sales 13.5% with a 12% increase in local currency.
In a period of increased pricing our volumes held up well and we had a strong contribution from acquisition activity in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In the Americas region we grew consumer business sales 7%.
As seen on Slide 15 sales from Kitchen Basics added 3% to growth and the effect of currency was minimal.
Pricing was up 7% this period with the impact of both our December 2010 price increase and the pricing actions that went into effect in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Along with these price increases we had some shift in sales as customers purchased product in advance of the increases.
In fact we were affected by an estimated $10 million shift into the fourth quarter of 2010 from the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and by an estimated $10 million shift into the third quarter of 2011 from the fourth quarter of 2011.
So compared to the year ago period these shifts in customer purchases created a $20 million headwind for us in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This had an unfavorable impact of about 4% on consumer sales in the Americas region a 3% sales impact on the total consumer business and a 2% sales impact on our fourth quarter sales for the total company.
In the Americas region volume and product mix declined 3% which reflects the 4% unfavorable impact from the shift in sales offset in part by a 1% increase in the underlying business.
We are pleased with this result given the pricing actions implemented in 2011.
In Europe the Middle East and Africa EMEA we grew consumer sales 36% with a 32% increase in local currency.
Our Kamis acquisition added 26% to sales this quarter with the remaining increase mainly from pricing.
Excluding Kamis we had a 1% increase in volume and product mix.
The primary drivers of growth this period were export sales into developing markets and improved results in some of the smaller markets such as Portugal.
We remain cautious in our business outlook in Western Europe.
Our fourth quarter performance was solid in France with increased pricing only slightly offset by lower volume and product mix.
We supported sales of our Ducros and Vahiné brands in this market throughout 2011 with incremental brand marketing support distribution gains and a number of new product introductions.
In the U.K.
we continue to operate in a competitive retail environment where private label share has increased in many categories.
We have launched differentiated new products such as Recipe Inspirations and are delivering enhanced promotional programs to offer value to consumers.
We are also redirecting a portion of our brand marketing support to emphasize the value of our products.
While these initiatives combined with the merchandising of our brands in store and execution of specific activities are showing encouraging results we expect our business in the U.K.
to continue to be under pressure in 2012.
Consumer business sales in the Asia Pacific region rose 36% and in local currency were up 29% with Kohinoor in India adding 33% to sales this period.
Excluding this impact sales this period were below the fourth quarter of 2010.
A change in the timing of customer purchases in China led to a sales shift which unfavorably impacted the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year in local currency consumer sales in China rose 10%.
For the fourth quarter and throughout 2011 our business in Australia has been challenged by a tough retail and competitive environment.
Across the entire region we expect solid growth in our Asia Pacific consumer business in 2012 led by new products expanded distribution and stepped-up marketing in China along with the incremental sales from Kohinoor.
Fourth quarter operating income for our consumer business increased $5 million to $164 million with the favorable impact of higher sales and CCI cost savings offset in part by increased material cost and $7 million of transaction cost related to the completion of the Kamis and Kohinoor acquisitions.
During the quarter we invested an incremental $9 million behind our brands with increased advertising behind Thanksgiving in the U.S.
Recipe Inspirations in Canada Vahiné products in France and Grinders in China.
$4 million of the increase related to our acquisitions.
Let's turn to the sales performance of our industrial business.
For this segment we also grew sales at a double-digit rate.
In local currency the increase was 12%.
McCormick continues to drive industrial business sales with product innovation and expanded distribution to support our strategic customers as they grow globally.
On Slide 20 industrial sales in the Americas grew 11% with 6% from pricing and 4% from volume and product mix.
We grew sales to food manufacturers at a double-digit rate with new products that included snack seasonings in both the U.S.
and Mexico.
Many of these products featured all-natural ingredients reduced sodium lower calorie and other healthy attributes for which we continue to see high demand.
Sales to the food service industry also rose with the increase due primarily to pricing actions.
In EMEA our industrial business had another quarter of strong sales growth.
We grew fourth quarter sales 12% and in local currency 13% as a result of favorable volume and product mix.
We are meeting greater demands from quick service restaurants with products that we supply from operations in the U.K.
Turkey and South Africa.
In the Asia Pacific region industrial business sales rose 29% and in local currency grew 22%.
Australia China and sales in Southeast Asia all achieved strong increases in sales of new products such as beverage flavors as well as more basic ingredients including pepper.
For sales to quick service restaurants we also benefited this period from their promotional activity and expansion in the region.
Operating income for the industrial business rose 5% to $28 million.
This was a significant improvement from the decline in profit that we reported in the third quarter and due in part to our ability to get price increases in place for many of the smaller ingredients that are not part of the pricing protocol.
This profit growth puts our industrial business back on track with a 5-year record of increases in operating income.
For the year industrial operating income was up 4%.
In this period of material cost volatility we are closely managing our pricing actions and cost pass-through protocol.
For the total business fourth quarter operating income rose 4% from the year ago period.
This is after the effect of a 4% unfavorable impact from acquisition-related transaction cost.
At the gross profit line we achieved a 7% increase in gross profit dollars with the strong sales performance and CCI cost savings.
During the quarter and for the fiscal year we were able to offset material cost inflation with a combination of pricing actions and CCI cost savings.
Gross profit margin ended 2011 at 41.2% down 130 basis points from 42.5% in 2010.
As a percentage of net sales the positive effects of our pricing actions and CCI cost savings were more than offset by material cost inflation as well as unfavorable segment and product sales mix.
Product mix within the industrial business was unfavorable with increased demand for ingredients as well as weakness in our sales of branded food service items.
Segment mix also weighed on gross profit margin with our 2011 sales growth from the industrial business a bit higher than the consumer business.
SG&amp;A rose 10% from the fourth quarter of 2011 but as a percentage of sales was down 80 basis points.
This period SG&amp;A included a $10 million increase in brand marketing support $9 million for our consumer business and $1 million behind our branded food service products in our industrial business.
For the year we increased marketing by $20 million with $4 million of the increase in both the fourth quarter and fiscal year related to acquisitions.
SG&amp;A this quarter also included the $7 million of transaction cost related to Kamis and Kohinoor.
Our mix of earnings during the fourth quarter of 2011 led to a tax rate of 28.7% which compared favorably to our 31% guidance for the fiscal year.
Even at this reduced rate the fourth quarter 2011 tax rate exceeded the 26.7% tax rate that we had in the fourth quarter of 2010.
If you recall in the year ago period we had a favorable impact from U.S.
foreign tax credits that resulted from the repatriation of cash from foreign subsidiaries.
Moving to income from unconsolidated operations.
We reported $4.5 million this quarter down $1.4 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Results from our joint venture in Mexico were under pressure from higher soybean oil cost and the devaluation of the Mexican peso.
While we had incremental profit from our Eastern joint venture in India in the quarter we also had investment spending behind the [indiscernible] joint venture in Turkey this period.
For the full year sales of our unconsolidated operations rose 32% with 18% of the increase from our new Eastern joint venture in India and 14% of the increase from existing businesses particularly our long-standing joint venture in Mexico.
Profit from higher sales was offset in part by material cost pressure currency impact and our initial investments to launch our brand in Turkey.
Income from our unconsolidated operations ended 2011 at $25.4 million and accounted for 7% of our reported net income.
Early in 2012 we expect the favorable impact of higher sales to be largely offset by unfavorable material cost as well as currency exchange rates.
This is likely to cause a decline in income from unconsolidated operations in the first quarter.
For the full year we project income from unconsolidated operations to be about even with 2011.
At the bottom line as shown on Slide 27 fourth quarter 2011 earnings per share was $0.98 compared to $0.99 in the prior year period.
Operating income added $0.04 which included $0.05 from acquisition-related transaction cost.
This $0.04 increase was offset by a higher tax rate lower joint venture income and higher interest expense.
While we continue to expect 2012 accretion from our latest acquisitions their profit impact was neutral in the fourth quarter during the integration phase of these businesses.
Let's turn next to our year-end balance sheet and 2011 cash flow.
We maintained a solid balance sheet in 2011 even with the spike in material cost and a $441 million investment in acquisitions and joint venture interest.
Debt at November 30 was $1.3 billion compared to $0.9 billion at the end of fiscal year 2010.
We expect to continue our pay down of debt in 2012 as we return to our target debt ratios and prepare for future acquisitions.
A portion of our debt was used to finance increased inventory in 2011.
As we have discussed throughout the year much of the increase was due to increased material cost as well as strategic inventory positions we've taken for certain spices and herbs in order to secure a steady supply of high-quality materials for our customers.
At year end inventory was up $136 million with about 1/3 of the increase due to the cost impact 1/3 to strategic positions and about 15% related to our acquisitions.
In 2012 we anticipate further material cost inflation but given our current outlook we expect inventory to level off and begin to decline as we work down a portion of our strategic inventory.
In addition we have seen some early progress with our new inventory management processes in North America and expect this to have further benefits in that region in 2012 before we expand it to other regions.
As evidence of our progress net cash flows from operating activities in the fourth quarter of 2011 exceeded cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the full year net cash flows were $340 million in 2011 compared to $388 million in 2010.
The increased inventory was the primary reason for this decrease.
During the year we used a combination of cash debt and proceeds from stock option exercises to fund $441 million of acquisitions $149 million of dividends $97 million of capital expenditures and $89 million of share repurchases.
In 2012 we expect to further pay down our debt and resume our share repurchases in the absence of any acquisition activity.
At November 30 2011 $270 million remained of our $400 million share repurchase authorization.
Let's turn next to our outlook for 2012 on Slide 29.
As Alan described we continue to operate in an uncertain environment facing further cost inflation and consumers that are under economic pressure in many of our markets.
We are responding to this environment with our latest pricing actions and CCI program and have initiatives in place to drive sales with product innovation brand marketing support new distribution and our acquisitions.
At the top line we are projecting 9% to 11% sales growth in local currency.
We estimate this range will be reduced by 2% based on prevailing foreign exchange rates.
Acquisitions will be an important driver of sales growth in 2012 and we expect an incremental impact of 5% to 6% in the first 3 quarters from Kamis Kohinoor and Kitchen Basics.
For the full year the expected sales increase is 4%.
We anticipate sales of our base business to grow 5% to 7% with a similar increase in both the consumer and industrial segments.
We expect our pricing actions to be a large driver of this 5% to 7% increase with volume and product mix flat to up slightly.
While we are seeing an impact on volumes from our latest pricing we expect to offset this with our new products brand marketing and distribution expansion activity.
Operating income is projected to grow 9% to 11% driven largely by higher sales.
We expect to offset high-single digit cost inflation with our pricing actions and at least $40 million in CCI cost savings.
We plan to increase total brand marketing support by at least $10 million with about half of the increase related to the acquisitions.
As Alan indicated this builds upon the $20 million of incremental brand marketing support in 2011.
There are 2 more factors to keep in mind as you update your 2012 financial models.
First we recorded $11 million of transaction cost in 2011 related to completion of acquisitions.
This will create a favorable variance for us in the second half of the year when comparing 2012 to 2011.
The second factor largely offsets this favorable variance and relates to our retirement benefit expense which is projected to increase $9 million in 2012.
This increase is largely a result of the very low discount rate at November 30 2011 which was used in the actuarial calculation of 2012 expense.
Below the operating income line we expect interest expense to be higher following our 2011 acquisitions and we project a tax rate of 30% which compares to 29% in 2011.
Although we believe 2012 will be a year of strong sales growth for our joint ventures as I indicated previously unconsolidated income is expected to be about even with 2011 as a result of increased material cost and the unfavorable exchange rate of the Mexican peso.
At the bottom line our guidance for 2012 earnings per share is $3.01 to $3.06.
We do not typically provide quarterly guidance.
However based on our current outlook we expect earnings per share of $0.51 to $0.54 in the first quarter.
This is down from $0.57 in the year ago period and there are several factors behind this projection.
The first relates to cost inflation.
If you look at our first quarter of 2011 gross profit margin increased by 130 basis points.
At that time we were not yet feeling the impact of higher material cost but this quickly reversed in the second quarter when year-on-year gross profit margin declined 120 basis points.
So we have a bit of a tough comparison in the first quarter of 2012 as it relates to gross profit margin which we expect to be down around 250 basis points similar to what we reported in the last 2 quarters of 2011.
For the balance of the year we expect gross profit margin to be close to the prior year.
The second factor also relates to raw material costs and the effect on our income from unconsolidated operations.
As I mentioned earlier higher costs year-on-year and currency exchange rates are going to cause a decrease in income from unconsolidated operations which is expected to lower first quarter earnings per share by about $0.02.
Third we plan to increase our brand marketing support in the first quarter by more than $5 million.
As a result of these factors our first quarter is going to be a slower start to 2012 but we expect to resume profit growth beginning with the second quarter.
The last part of our 2012 outlook to cover is cash.
As indicated earlier we expect to achieve an increase in net cash flow from operations primarily driven by higher net income and a reduction in inventory.
We are planning capital expenditures of $100 million to $110 million further debt reduction and share repurchases that will result in a slight decline in our shares outstanding.
To summarize our 2012 outlook is for 9% to 11% growth in sales in local currency a 9% to 11% increase in operating income and a solid EPS result.
We are committed to solid execution of our growth initiatives and to achieving these goals.
Alan has a few closing remarks but let's turn next to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is regarding fiscal '12 growth and your EPS outlook.
Just is it possible for you to talk to us about the growth in terms of base business versus acquisition and the cost that you had last year? So the way I thought about the growth is I've broken out the growth between base business growth and then the accretion from your acquisitions as well as the lower cost related to the transactions that you did.
So it seems to me that base business growth is going to be well below sort of your normal long-term growth rate in terms of operating income.
And it looks like it's mainly because of higher commodity cost and it looks like all of it's going to hit you really in 1Q.
Am I reading that correctly? Or am I missing something? I know the retirement benefit expense may be something to do with it but is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
Certainly as we're building our budgets and plans we look at the incrementality the acquisitions.
And as we indicated last year those acquisitions are expected to be accretive and the guidance we gave was $0.07 and $0.09.
I'd say we're still within that guidance as we built our outlook for 2012.
So the factors that you pointed to which we talked about in the call the material cost as well as the pension I’d just like to emphasize that are impacting the base business.
Research Division</strong> So if you just look at longer term obviously you've done a tremendous job of building shareholder value and your targets internally as well are very much in line with shareholders’.
So it seems like some exogenous factors just commodity costs that are out of your control have impacted your base business significantly over the last let's call it 12 months.
So should we expect that to sort of reverse as we go forward? So the base business has been growing at a lower rate than normal recently.
But if commodity costs level out or even come down should we expect to see that growth sort of come back in a sense that maybe at some point you start growing at a much faster rate for a short period of time than you have been recently? Is that a possibility? Or you're -- you think if that happens you will just reinvest back in the business and continue to grow sort of 9% to 11% on the bottom line? We would -- what’s happened with all the cost volatility over the last couple of years has impacted our long-term growth model which is built around being able to invest behind the business but also to improve margins in a fairly stable cost environment.
So what we've been doing is adapting our business over the last really 2 years to take more pricing than we would typically take.
Certainly as with our strong CCI programs as we start to see stability -- even if we don't see a big retreat in cost as we start to see stability our model kind of starts to work again because our CCI program is generally built towards increasing our margins while our pricing is just to offset cost.
What we've seen in the last 2 years is we've needed a combination of pricing and CCI to offset the increased costs.
Research Division</strong> So in other words I mean just would you -- would we -- should we expect to see an acceleration in growth even if it's above your long-term target? I mean is that possible? Or would you -- if that happens would you tend to invest that in future growth initiatives? I think we've been pretty balanced through the combination of investment for growth behind our consumer and our industrial businesses and returning returns to shareholders to increase EPS.
So we would likely spend some of the money and we would likely take some of the earnings.
Our next question is coming from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> So you're the second food manufacturer in the last couple of weeks to call out weak overall food trends in traditional channels not just in spices obviously but overall.
And I think this is maybe counter to what some people expected as the economy maybe slowly recovers.
So just curious for your insight there.
Do you think traffic's maybe down because of continued high pricing? And I'm sure that's a big part of it or there's some other drivers we're not seeing.
Maybe club and dollar stores are just doing something better and unique in terms of marketing and attracting consumers.
Just curious I know you don't have a presence across the whole store but I'm curious what your insights are there.
I think there is some impact as some of the other manufacturers have talked about of people moving to other channels like dollar and club and that sort of thing.
What we are seeing is some consumer behavior which we've not seen before that has led to a decline in the most recent period in the data that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what would you say is the normal run rate separate subject for your CCI annual savings? I know it's difficult to forecast these items.
Sometimes they come in obviously faster or slower than expected.
But how should we think about this going forward? Because a $25 million swing year-on-year is not insignificant.
Year-on-year we try to target about $50 million of CCI savings just below and for the last couple of years we've been able to overachieve that.
And I'd also point out the $40 million goal that we set this year we expect is a goal that we’ll hit and likely exceed.
So we're setting targets and trying to drive it.
It's really a part of our ongoing operations and we've got some good ideas and some good projects that we think will be good that will help us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you do see the $40 million -- I know you're not promising this -- but as potentially conservative? We typically hit what -- at least hit what we say we're going to hit.
Our next question is coming from Alexia Howard of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question as a follow-up to Ken's question and then something on new products.
Are you seeing a pickup in the restaurant sector? And is that putting pressure as far as you're seeing it on the packaged food space in general? I'm just wondering whether it's not just growth in dollar stores and alternative channels but maybe a pickup in the restaurant sector which you may have a good handle on from your industrial business might be causing some of the pressure on the packaged food sector.
And then secondly in new products you mentioned new products represent about 9% of sales at the moment.
What do you think is the right long-term level of that? Can you accelerate that? And maybe can you make any commentary about how quickly that's expanded over the last 2 or 3 years? Yes.
Thanks Alexia.
In the fourth quarter we did see some positive volume growth in the restaurant sector which we kind of view as healthy because it's been a couple of years of pretty significant declines.
And so I don't want to speculate on what -- if consumers are eating out and not cooking at home I don't think we're seeing that return as much but we did see some positive volume growth late in the year in our food service business.
Secondly on the new products we would expect a new product sales to be in -- to be something in the order of 10% to 12% so 9% over the last 3 years we would expect as we go forward that to be a higher percentage.
Our next question is coming from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are your industrial contracts are they completely repriced now to reflect not only the inflation that you saw in 2011 but also to reflect the inflation you're expecting for 2012? For the most part -- I mean we've got a broad range of contracts with customers across the world but generally we are appropriately priced.
Now a lot of the major commodities like wheat and soybean oil gets passed through as those commodities change.
So as we see increases we price.
And then as we see decreases we pass through that pricing.
But I'd say by and large as we caught up in the fourth quarter that we're appropriately priced.
And we'll -- as we see additional inflation we'll deal with that.
Or if we see some softening in cost we'll deal with that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then could you give just a little bit more color on your comment that you will resume the share repurchases? Is that going to start soon? Or is that more back loaded in the fiscal year? I would suggest that you would -- by the end of the first quarter you'll start to see activity as we report.
Our next question is coming from Rob Moskow of Crédit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
If the share repurchase continues do you think you could ever get back to your long-term guidance of 2% reduction in share count as a result of share repurchase? And then secondly your cost inflation for this year is a lot higher than I thought it would be up in the high-single digit range.
Is it your objective to just kind of wait and see before taking another price increase? Or are you comfortable that the pricing that you have in the market right now plus the CCI is enough to just get you back to keep the gross margins from falling further? And then one more follow-up.
Regarding the acquisitions is there any dilution to your gross margin from those acquisitions? I'll take the pricing commodity question let Gordon handle the share buyback and the margin question.
But in terms of our pricing as we see it today we don't anticipate taking additional -- significant additional pricing.
Now we also didn't anticipate that as we went into the fourth quarter of this year if you talked -- when we talked last January but what we saw was a fairly significant run-up in cost and so we thought we had to do that.
And you can see from our margin performance that we did have to do that.
But as we sit here today we don't anticipate significant pricing for the rest of the year but again we'll adapt our plans as we see cost.
And I'll let Gordon handle the other 2 questions.
Yes in terms of the 2%.
The 2% on our long-term guidance we think about this either as an accretive acquisition Rob or a share repurchase.
In the absence of -- and you'll -- this year in our guidance we talked about the 7% to 9% and that in fact reflects a 2% to 3% type of a benefit on EPS.
In the absence of an acquisition we would be buying back shares in that financial leverage to return to a 2% benefit on the shares outstanding and that's purely opportunistic based on what the pipeline is.
In terms of the dilutive impact I'd say without getting too specific on the gross margin structures that the acquisition -- we talked about the operating income margin of the Kamis acquisition at 16% to 17%.
Its margin structure is a healthy margin structure that reflects strong consumer businesses that we -- in the rest of our European businesses.
And the business in India as an emerging market as you would expect would be lower margin structure.
But again that's higher growth and we would expect to get scale in margin improvement over time in that one.
Research Division</strong> Gordon and Alan it's -- this is the second year in a row that we've had EPS guidance that's well below the normal range of 9% to 11%.
When do you think you get back to that normal range if not better? I think in a stable environment a stable cost environment we can certainly execute that.
But what we want to do is give you the best transparency over what we're seeing at this point.
Our next question is coming from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had -- first a quick one sort of a follow-up.
The accretion from acquisitions in 2012 is that just the absence of cost? Is there actual accretion as well on top of the absence of those costs the $11 million of cost in 2011? There's actual accretion incremental profit after interest and that's that 7% to 9% number that we've guided to previously.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $0.07 to $0.09 per share then you had the $0.06 drag.
So we can just back into some rough math if it's going to benefit EPS in 2012.
I'm sorry? I -- would you say that again Chris? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's $0.07 to $0.09 of accretion in 2012? That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's -- again you're comparing against roughly $0.07 in cost in 2011.
Right.
So -- but remember also the other thing that's offsetting that $0.07 is an incremental $9 million of retirement benefit.
But yes your math is correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
And then I want to understand with the marketing increase for the year in '12 the $10 million increase does that incorporate acquisitions? And then if I could add to that does that also -- is that -- a broad consumer support does that include promotion as well? It's -- I'll answer for the first one and Gordon can talk more about how things get allocated.
But the $10 million increase is about half from the base business and about half coming from acquisitions.
And depending on the nature of the promotional expense the $10 million does contemplate more consumer-facing promotional.
But there probably will be additional dollars as Alan indicated on some of the value messaging that would be between gross and net.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I guess I'm -- so the -- my last question sort of a follow-up to that would be as you're shifting more to promotion that seems like it's mostly occurring in Europe consumer.
I think you started that or did some of that in 2011 as well.
I mean have you seen that stabilize the business or does that need to step up a little more heavily in '12 to try and stabilize be it trade down to private label or just some of the more difficult consumer trends in the business? It's very similar to what we did in 2009 when we saw the weakness.
And it's putting an emphasis one on the messaging to consumers on value and we're ramping that up and then secondly using some of our promotion plans and really targeting those.
So we expect there will be some balance.
We’re kind of rebalancing our whole marketing program for the year to make sure that we're getting back to a healthy volume growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should see better volumes throughout the year and a suspicion that that’s spending correct? We expect that -- we expect it to have a positive impact.
Our next question is coming from Ann Gurkin of Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to return to your comments regarding your outlook for the U.K.
and France.
Do you think it's going to get worse from here for '12 -- have you modeled that -- or look like Q4? Can you just give me some more details I guess particularly on France? Well as I -- we said in our remarks France in the fourth quarter continues to be resilient.
We had sales growth mainly through price execution but volumes held up in a tough environment.
U.K.
continues to be challenging.
So as we -- and we've seen stabilization in the other markets which we had expected would occur as we progressed through 2011.
So I guess that outlook that I've just described is a similar outlook as we look into 2012 and that's baked into our thinking.
And then obviously we have the benefit of the acquisition that we just did in Europe as well.
Yes.
It's a pretty steady state outlook.
Obviously we're not contemplating any major collapse in Europe or anything like that but we expect it to be a continued pressure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then secondly on -- it was nice to hear that private label is increasing prices.
Is that gap between branded and private label pretty much in line with historic measures? Can you comment on that? Yes.
We -- the gap is pretty similar to historical levels but what we are doing is really analyzing the price thresholds that we've crossed to understand the impact on volume.
But if I look at the year and even in the 4-week period we've seen private label prices go up at about the same level on a percentage basis as brand.
Our next question is coming from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess I want to follow up on Ken's initial question because I think it's a very important one.
I just -- I'm not -- I mean are you as confused as I am in terms of trying to understand how QSR can be up because obviously QSR purchases per serving are so much more expensive than cooking your own food at home.
And yet the industry and yourself today are talking about pretty significant elasticity hits.
And it sounds like if anything as 2011 progressed that dynamic got worse.
So why should we be at all confident that even with a little bit of advertising or more promotion that this consumer who is just so cautious can be convinced to kind of open up the wallet for core products or all the new products that you're putting out there? I think as you point out it is a better value than necessarily going to a restaurant and much cheaper to cook at home.
And that's what we're trying to convince the consumer and show them that for a lower cost you can actually have a better and healthier meal.
But there is a consumer behavior that we are again watching and targeting and us and our retail partners will be working on how we do that.
Now on the other side of that we also have a pretty significant participation in those restaurant sales.
And as that goes through our food service distribution business it's not necessarily a bad tradeoff for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could follow up on the raw material side of things.
We have no visibility on a lot of your raw materials.
And we kind of got a surprise last quarter and it sounded like you were a bit surprised at how much those items had moved up.
But is it because you've locked in via raw material purchases that your costs in 2012 Gordon are going to be up so much? Because I would normally assume that whether it's I don't know cinnamon or pepper or vanilla farmers are going to plant from fence post to fence post to try to exploit the higher prices.
So have you kind of hurt yourself a little by buying in so much inventory? No.
Actually our inventory positions are better than the current market's because we're out seeing and anticipating what's going to happen.
So we're not upside down at all on our inventory.
We're still seeing some competition for land in some of those emerging markets where people aren't necessarily planting more pepper volumes.
And when they decide to do that it takes about 3 years before they have significant yields.
We've seen them move to shorter cash crops like cassava which is a thickener that's used.
So there is continuing to be pressure on the spice commodities that we buy but our strategic inventory positions are an advantage for us.
Research Division</strong> So just with that -- Alan with that time lag on the farmer intent and the yield so are -- do you think that this could be a multi-year issue on raw materials even if you're a little bit better than the spot market for I don't know whatever the next couple of quarters based on your inventory? Yes.
Specifically in pepper we've seen pepper almost quadruple in -- or triple in 4 years and double in the last 18 months.
Now we don't anticipate it's going to continue to rise at that kind of rate but we have not seen significant softness.
I mean it softens from time to time and we take advantage of that but we haven't seen significant softness to this point in that.
It has been a couple of years of that acceleration.
I think that's my main point is -- and typically a lot of our materials are on those kind of cycles where they'll be up for a couple of years and then as plantings increase and yields go up then they start to come down again.
Our next question is coming from Eric Serotta of Wells Fargo Investments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to follow up on your comments about mix.
You commented how you had some negative overall segment mix from industrial growing a bit faster than consumer and some negative mix within industrial.
I'm wondering whether you could comment upon the mix impact within consumer.
How did your sort of premium products perform relative to your more baseline products? And was mix a positive or a negative contributor in the consumer segment? This is Gordon.
I'd say mix was not a major factor in the overall consumer segment performance.
Most of the volume performance within the quarter that was impacted within consumer relates to the timing issues that I spoke about earlier mainly in the U.S.
consumer business and that's a volume issue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how did your premium products perform relative to your base or core products? Yes.
If we're speaking about the gourmet relative to say red cap they were generally in line with each other.
There wasn't any divergence between the 2.
Our next question is coming from Andrew Lazar of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
One have you been able to -- I've generally thought that you and others can manage any kind of a shift from a channel perspective whether it be from traditional grocery to alternative channels can manage that in a relatively sort of margin-neutral way at least.
And we've had one company recently talk about this being kind of a negative hit for them albeit it was a private label entity.
So I just want to get a sense of how you manage that and if you typically are able to manage that in a pretty margin-neutral way sort of at a minimum.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Generally we can manage it in a fairly margin-neutral way.
I think what the other company was talking about is a move in their business to more opening price point-type business from a standard private label-type product.
We do very little opening price point.
We do some but not very much.
Ours tend to be more standard private label.
And then our whole selling story is to do the right thing for the whole category.
So even where we have a private label presence in an alternative channel we are also bringing branded solutions to those customers.
So we -- it helps maintain a similar kind of margin than what we see across the rest of our business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then also wanted to ask -- I don't want to beat this too much.
I'm just trying to get an understanding because I still find myself very confused over sort of recent consumer behavior or just lack of kind of consumption I guess if you will from the -- just the broader consumer given the weakness we've seen broadly in the industry.
So do we think that it's primarily just some of the normal elasticity that this industry sees when they get pricing through? Or are they -- is the consumer -- I've heard everything from they're wasting less product in their household than they typically do.
I assume there's maybe some inventory de-stocking at retailer levels.
Like I'm just trying to get a sense of if we think there's something that's beyond normal elasticity that the consumer's dealing with.
Or -- because I'm still very confused.
And I hear all these different answers but no one seems to have a great -- sort of really a great read on it.
I don't know that we have great insight on it at this point.
I mean for our products warm weather at this time of year isn't necessarily a good thing.
We like a little cold weather to get people back to cooking chili.
And so we kind of see that and I know people have talked about that as part of the issue.
But I don't think we have a firm handle on really what's happened in the very short period.
Now if you look over the course of the longer-term 6 months and 12 months the pattern isn't that dramatically different than what we've seen historically.
But I think what everybody's kind of looking at is what happened in the last couple of weeks of the year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
And the last thing is in the quarter at least it looks like x the sort of a volume shift in your Americas consumer business volume was still flat to up in spite of all that admittedly your quarter ends in November but it wasn't like we saw some -- at least at this stage some huge volume sort of decline.
No.
That's correct.
Our next question is coming from Robert Dickerson of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of quick easy questions.
I guess first is just on taxes.
I haven't really -- I haven't heard anyone ask a question on taxes.
I'm kind of surprised.
I know I think what the beginning of the year the guidance was for 31% and I know in Q3 you had the benefit and got $0.09.
And then I think the expectation -- I may have even asked this last quarter -- the expectation for full year wasn't really changed.
But you did come in quite below such that you got basically 29% tax rate for the year which if you just do the math winds up being more than half of your EPS improvement.
So if I'm thinking about fiscal '12 you're guiding to 30% but I'm assuming there's no -- there's nothing within that 30% that could potentially make it lower again.
A couple of things.
One is that we actually had an unfavorability on the tax relative to prior year.
The -- what you may be citing in terms of...
LLC</strong> No I'm just talking about guidance.
I...
Yes.
Okay.
Versus the guidance.
I understand.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Like you beat last year and you beat this year both on tax.
Yes.
Obviously tax is a very difficult thing to forecast.
You're just trying to anticipate mix of earnings and it's also a volatile legislative environment.
And there are programs and tax credits and things that get hung up in the heated discussion right now and you cannot include that in any type of a guidance as you start a year until these things land and are resolved.
So we start with our best estimate as to what we know now in the legislative environment as to what we know now as it relates to currencies and its impact on the mix of earnings and the earnings themselves and that's our guidance.
Obviously there's things that resolve during the course of the year that can be favorable and unfavorable.
Last year they tended to be more favorable than our initial guidance.
So I can tell you the best I can say at the moment is the guidance we're giving you is based on all the knowledge we have at this moment on all those factors.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up question from what Chris asked before on the acquisitions just to be clear.
I know -- so this year it was the $0.07 in cost that's been -- that's inclusive in earnings.
But then next year we're saying $0.07 to $0.09 in accretion? Or is it really $0.07 year-over-year benefit from not having the cost and then there's an additional $0.02 potential upside which is really the accretion? No.
It's going back to Chris' point.
We are not repeating the $0.07 of transaction cost and we have an incremental benefit from the acquisitions in $0.07 and $0.09.
And again -- then that's offset by the incremental retirement cost of $9 million or partially offset all of those numbers.
LLC</strong> So kind of on average about $0.14 of benefit for '12? Yes.
Yes.
That's correct.
We've run a bit over an hour.
Why don't we take one more question and then we'll turn it back over to Alan.
Our last question is coming from Mitch Pinheiro of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I'll let everybody go.
My questions have been answered.
Just to wrap up at -- just a couple of comments.
We've been pretty effective at adapting our business to meet a very challenging environment.
As we head into 2012 we're managing through this with cost -- the cost volatility with our pricing and our CCI.
Our product innovation and our marketing support are meeting consumer demands for flavor convenience and value.
As we've increased our participation in emerging markets with the acquisition of leading brands we expect that to drive higher growth.
I'm confident that we're well positioned and we've got the leadership and the employees in place to meet the challenges and deliver a year of strong financial performance for McCormick shareholders.
We appreciate your time and attention.
We'll turn it back over to Joyce.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my thanks to everyone listening on today's call.
We hope you can also join our next earnings call which is planned for Tuesday March 27 and that you have on your calendar our McCormick Investor Day scheduled in New York on April 17.
Through February 2 you may access a telephone replay of today's call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The account number for this replay is 309 and the ID number is 383424.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information please give me a call at (410) 771-7244.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First one is regarding sales growth and your expectations for the remainder of the year.
You're really the first company to actually come out and say -- at least in the food space to come out and say that there's a shift in consumer spending towards away from home which is interesting.
And I just wanted to isolate as part of your better performance that you admitted in terms of sales growth how much of it was related to that shift and weather? And the reason I'm asking is if sales growth was better than you expected which you said I'm just wondering why you don't have the confidence I guess to raise your sales growth guidance.
So if you can give me a little bit of perspective on that that'd be helpful.
And my second question is regarding branding.
And you increased brand marketing by I believe $9 million this quarter which was well ahead of your guidance.
But for the full year you still kept the guidance the same.
So I'm wondering if there's flexibility on that or if you're committed to not spending much more for the remainder of the year.
Yes a couple of things.
It's pretty hard to actually quantify the impact of weather but we did see some impact in our consumer business at least in the U.S.
where a lot of the real cold weather items were dramatically lower than they were a year ago things like chili and beef stew seasoning and things like that.
The reason that we're a bit cautious is as we've seen fuel prices start to rise that tends to have a fairly significant impact on people as they spend their dollars going out or staying home.
So we're a bit cautious on that and so it's pretty hard to quantify.
On the second question on advertising spend we're committed to continue to invest in our brands.
You’ll recall we spent up pretty heavily in the fourth quarter of last year.
And our pattern is if we see the opportunity to do that because we have pretty good returns on our advertising investment we'll do that.
But at this point early in the year with a small quarter it's not the appropriate time to change our guidance.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up.
So you are spending more it seems like on your consumer business which makes sense.
Can you just talk about sort of -- in terms of the outperformance this quarter relative to your own expectation would the business have outperformed even if there wasn't a shift to QSRs for example? Like what -- was your consumer business sales growth in line or below your expectations? And how much of that do you think is because of a shift towards QSRs? I would say that the consumer business was probably slightly ahead of our expectations given some of the volume trends we saw early in the quarter when we were providing some guidance.
So as we progressed we saw stabilization and some strengthening.
And it was pretty broad based.
You saw the strong numbers in EMEA as well as China and Canada and the U.S.
stabilization.
So I'd say really in terms of the outperformance the consumer business was probably slightly ahead.
I will say the Industrial business was very robust as well.
Just to also highlight some of the things we're cautious about if you recall in the prior year we did have some weak comparisons in markets like China on the industrial side.
So the strong performance in the first quarter while we're very pleased with it was against a weak year ago period.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've now had 4 quarters of 5% to 6% price increases across the business yet the gross margin decline you've had this quarter was the biggest since this inflation really started in second quarter last year.
Shouldn't 4 quarters of good pricing give you a little bit more power to have less of a margin decline on the gross margin level? No.
If you recall and going back to the chart that where we've tried to illustrate this is in the first quarter of last year we were not yet experiencing the material cost inflation pressures.
It was largely building up in inventory and also yet to be realized on the P&amp;L.
So as you recall as we progressed through last year the third quarter was down over 100 basis points and -- I mean the second quarter then the third quarter and fourth quarter were similar.
So it really is a function of the timing of when these material cost increases started to hit us and it started to accelerate as we progressed through the year.
So we're looking at almost an opposite phenomena this year where the majority of the increase really we start to experience in the first part of the year and then it starts to moderate as we progress through the year.
And that's really what's causing the gross margin issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was there any margin impact from that shift from food at home to more of the industrial business? Well there certainly will be because obviously it's a lower margin structure business relative to the consumer business.
But as you saw the industrial margins themselves were up over the prior year so that was helpful to the overall company margin structure as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a few weeks ago you put out a press release that you hired Dr.
Cardellina as a scientist.
I think the press release called out that he had experience with supplements and areas of the I would say food business that's not necessarily your core business.
Is that signaling anything that maybe McCormick will move more into a supplement role or is it just part of his resume but that's not the reason why you hired him? No.
That's part of his background.
He's a very talented scientist and he's going to help us tremendously in our flavor business.
But there's no -- nothing to read in from his background.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just to kind of come back to that cost inflation comments that you've made today I guess Gordon.
Obviously the peak being here in Q1 has it stepped down pretty meaningfully going forward or is it a gradual decline? I'm just trying to get a little bit of sense of the gross margin as we trend through the year.
I'd say it's a gradual stabilization based on the way I just described how it played out last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was just curious the QSR performance in the quarter.
Is there any way to look at -- if you look at sort of the category trend if you want to call it that kind of how the QSRs broadly performed in the quarter it was meaningfully better in Q1 than say Q4.
Was that the majority of the growth that occurred for you? But I know you've also cited new product wins and distribution gains that kind of thing.
So I'm just trying to understand what was really driving the main piece of the growth in the QSR performance this quarter.
Well the bigger turnaround in the first quarter was our food service business and it was a combination of our distributor business and our QSR business.
But that was a lot of what was happening in the U.S.
industrial business.
Around the world it's a heavier QSR blend of customers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Again that category trend picked up a lot in the quarter.
Was that an important -- the most important part of the growth in the quarter then? For the industrial business it certainly was.
Obviously we talk about acquisitions and pricing as part of our growth algorithm in the quarter as well on the consumer side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure I was looking at the organic -- got you.
okay.
And then I have just one more follow-up if I could.
And that was just in relation to price realization in the EMEA consumer division I'm just trying to understand there I'm sure you've taken pricing there in relation to cost inflation.
Was there incremental promotional spending that may have reduced what the actual price realization that came through in the quarter? We took minor pricing and we took it in 2010 and early ’11.
So there was very little pricing in the EMEA business and we did have a fairly heavy marketing and advertising spend.
LLC</strong> I just want to step back a little bit and kind of talk big picture.
Because I know last year at CAGNY you had a fairly extensive slide presentation.
And it seemed like the larger strategy for McCormick on average was just by 2013 you could reach the 16% to 17% operating margin and you had 20% margin in 2010.
In consumer you had 8%.
In industrial the goal was to get industrial to 9% to 10%.
And then inherent within the plan excuse me was a continued shift to the consumer business on the top line.
But I guess if I'm looking in the quarter and I realize that there is a little bit of a shift year-over-year because of the compare volume pulling into -- I mean pulling to Q4 for last fiscal year.
But in general I guess -- so the question is are we still on path to do that? Or could we see a scenario play out such that on an operating profit basis there actually could be a little bit of not negative margin mix going forward but maybe not as positive as you thought considering commodities are still high? You're carrying kind of high inventories.
And even though you have this outsized growth in the top line driven by acquisitions frankly consumer profits are still down 6% which -- that's the second year in a row that your consumer division is down.
So if I think about what's happening in consumer now and what's happening in the segment business mix now relative to longer-term plan I heard over a year ago it just -- it seems a little off.
So I'm wondering if you could just kind of provide some color on that.
I wouldn't read too much into an anomaly on one quarter.
But what I would say is our strategies are exactly as we laid out last year.
Now we've seen an awful lot of volatility in costs as we went through last year.
Our costs were certainly a lot higher that we -- than we had anticipated in February last year.
I'd say we're still experiencing that.
You'll also recall in that discussion that the pricing is a very very small part of our algorithm.
But what happened in the quarter and in the time since then is that pricing has been much more a factor as we try to recover the margin.
Our strategies are still the same.
The acquisitions that we made last year were by and large consumer acquisitions.
Doesn't mean we won't make industrial acquisitions going forward.
But our strategy is still to grow our consumer business faster and drive the margin of our industrial business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So then if I think about the rest of this year even into next year if we do actually see the input cost pressures ease a bit as we go through the year I mean is it fair to assume that you could see a little bit more of a margin benefit on the consumer side relative to what you get on the industrial side? Well.
Certainly as we progress through this year because of the volatility of cost it may be tough within the consumer business.
But on a go-forward basis to Alan's point the basic fundamental algorithm around faster consumer growth improved industrial margin leads to an enhanced overall margin structure for the company.
That has not changed.
But again back to Alan's point these long-term goals can get interrupted for periods of cost volatility which is what we're experiencing right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to return to the step-up in marketing spend.
Are you getting the return? And I guess I was looking for $5 million and it looks like it was $10 million this quarter.
So can you walk me through that a little bit? Yes we believe that we are.
We had -- we were supporting new product activity in the U.S.
as well as in the U.K.
We spent a tremendous amount in the first quarter launching Recipe Inspirations in the U.K.
and in France and we've seen the sales results from that and we feel pretty good about it.
But as you're well aware we continue.
We have a pretty disciplined process to monitor what's working and adapt our model to spend behind the initiatives that are working.
This year we're beefing up our spending in digital and mobile marketing.
We think there's a great return there.
We also have started to invest in China behind brand building to deepen our business there as opposed to just look for new distribution.
So it's an overall mix that we think is going to pay out.
But as you're well aware we'll go back and adapt it to what's working from a return standpoint and put the emphasis where we think it's going to generate the best returns.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then how does the acquisition pipeline look right now? It's still active.
I wouldn't say that there's nothing we can announce this morning but it's still active.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then third if you could just comment on Zatarain’s frozen entrées.
How are those performing that's been a tough category and how is that doing? Well for us it's been a very good category.
It's pretty well all incremental growth.
We just introduced meals for 2 and they're starting to roll out now.
And so we're seeing pretty good traction from things like Jambalaya and Blackened Chicken Alfredo.
So it's -- that's kind of an area that we're excited.
Remember we're niche on -- in frozen.
We don't think the world needs another frozen lasagna and we're not trying to compete there.
But the products that we have for Zatarain’s and even for Thai Kitchen are pretty exciting to us.
Research Division</strong> In the industrial segment obviously the QSR was strong.
What part of this is sort of sustainable on your -- and driven by sort of internal efforts like the innovation you've talked about and that sort of -- the process of getting these new products into the QSR segment and how much is just maybe economic-related? And then also how did your broad line distributor business do in the quarter? Sure.
We've executed better I'll say that.
Now recall this is one quarter after a number of quarters of a fairly weak performance in the food service channel.
But that -- so we're feeling good about the result.
We're cautious going forward again because of the impact to gas prices but it's been driven by our new product wins as well as some good performance by a number of our customers.
Our broad line branded business in food service also did very well in the quarter and it's kind of nice to see positive volume trends in that area as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question is how are you progressing on gaining share within your largest strategic customers? In the industrial business we've continued to gain share.
It's always a kind of a tactical battle because we do that by winning new product innovation and that's where we've tended to win more than our share of briefs.
There's some offsets to that as people are looking to reduce cost in our ingredient business and that's less of an innovation trend.
But we've continued to gain share with most of our strategic customers.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at the -- how the quarters are supposed to progress for the rest of the year.
And are you forecasting like what my model shows that you can continue to get 100 basis points of leverage on the SGA line for the rest of the year? That'll vary obviously by the timing of A&amp;P spend.
Obviously it would have been even more this quarter without the A&amp;P spend.
So -- but certainly we're looking for leverage on the SG&amp;A line because of obviously the price execution on the top line and the leveraging of the acquisitions against the SG&amp;A base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up.
I can see Gordon how the gross margin comparisons are going to get easier for the rest of the year.
But you're not really forecasting from what I can tell any gross margin expansion.
Is it really just a catch-up as the year progresses? Is that correct? I'd characterize it as more of a catch-up as the year progresses.
Things can impact that obviously in terms of the product portfolio and the segment portfolio so that's what can vary and cause it to go up or down in any given quarter.
But I would suggest it's more of a catch-up.
Our price increases take a full year outlook and look to try and recover after even we look at CCI the cost increases.
Research Division</strong> And your volume comparisons for second and third quarter your currency comparisons for second and third quarter are going to get actually a lot tougher as well.
Does that flow through at all to a tougher comparison in terms of operating profit growth? Or it seems like what you're saying is it really isn't a concern.
Well FX as we've indicated will be a negative to the top line 2% on the year and you're correct in that Q2 will start to be a tougher comparison.
It's not the same impact on the operating income line as it is on the sales line.
We have hedging activities.
We also have cross-border flow of goods that we try to make natural hedges out of.
But then obviously we'll ultimately have a negative impact on the operating income line as well just not as much as it is on the top line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So third quarter will be a much easier comparison than second quarter? Yes.
Second quarter -- well again it's -- at current rates -- and rates as you know are volatile as well these days but at current rates second quarter is a tougher one.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
I guess I think Alan you alluded to the U.S.
food manufacturers that you supply as still kind of being weak as the quarter progressed.
Could you just detail that aspect? Because obviously the other food manufacturers have been pretty negative and have not indicated any kind of recovery whatsoever.
What we see is a little bit of a lag behind their volume trends on core items.
So I wouldn't necessarily read into our results what's going to happen with all the other food manufacturers.
If we're supplying core items and the core items are weak our sales are going to be weak.
To the extent that we have new product innovation wins even when their trends may be a little weaker our trends may be a little bit better.
I will say I do think everybody is concerned with the consumer reaction to pricing and trying to put programs in place to make sure that we can protect volume.
You've seen a lot of announcements on increased advertising spending and we're seeing some amount of new product activity that we think will help us as well as help our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe you're going to go into this in more detail at the Analyst Day in a couple of weeks.
But it seems to me on the consumer side that China is -- there's like some quarters where it's really great and then other quarters where it stumbles a bit.
On the industrial side it's been strong for a long time.
But would you say now that China is -- maybe emerging markets are more of a focus but China is better positioned to be more of a consistent growth area for you on the consumer side? Yes.
We certainly expect that it would.
Now remember China has a similar dynamic that the American market has except it's a quarter different.
Our Thanksgiving-Christmas holiday is a heavy boost to sales for the U.S.
In China it's the first quarter because of Chinese New Year.
So we do see some seasonality in that pattern as well.
But we do think we're building a sustainable business in China and are really favorable on our brand building as we build consumer loyalty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question maybe more on the industrial side of things.
I was just -- I was on a flight the other day and I randomly sat next to this guy who works for another food ingredient supplier and he indicated that the manufacturers the branded companies that he serves were really pressuring everything in terms of cost.
And I guess that's not surprising given all the inflation.
But to the point where the food manufacturers were really like wanted to the extent feasible to keep the taste profile the same.
They were actually looking for lower quality ingredients to the extent again that the cost versus taste balance would -- could sustain it.
So are you seeing that and kind of how does that work into the improvement on the industrial side? I would say every customer that we have has a fairly aggressive productivity initiative.
And the way we try to deal with that is by offering alternatives that protect the flavor and also because in a lot of cases we can help them both reduce costs and improve their product.
And so that's a lot of the effort that we have going.
But I'd say every manufacturer and we're -- we us included have productivity efforts to try to offset these increased costs because we recognize it's a combination of high cost and high prices and lower volumes are not a sustainable mix.
And so we're all working on try to do that.
But for the most part and I'd say across the board we’ve benefited from that but it does present some challenges for us.
If we're looking at this process of higher raws sort of decelerating and the -- still the flow of price increases going through how do you see it as affecting private label as both part of your sales mix and private label produced by competitors? Well what we've seen is private label pricing has gone up higher than brand pricing over the last 6 months or so on a percentage basis.
On the other hand what we're seeing is consumers are very conscious of the prices they're paying as we always do when prices go up and are making some trade-offs.
So at least in the U.S.
and I'll speak to the U.S.
in our spice and seasonings business we've seen private label gain some share both in terms of dollars and in terms of units.
In dry seasoning mixes we've actually gained share.
And then in our other major markets Canada the U.K.
and France we've gained share.
So what we are seeing is private label manufacturers and us among them passing through higher prices.
And those higher prices are getting reflected on the shelf but the consumers looking at an absolute price point on the shelf that they're making a decision on.
And so I think we're in a bit of a questionable period from an elasticity standpoint.
So we're very conscious of that and are implementing programs to help offset that.
How about just looking internally how has -- what's the shift like between your branded product and private label products in the consumer segment? We've seen some shift not necessarily to private label but some shift in volume to some of our economy brands.
Our private label business has grown but it's also because we won some new customers with that.
So I wouldn't say it's been a dramatic shift in our mix of products from brand to private label.
There's a little bit more from within our brands to our more economy brands.
Research Division</strong> I think Eric sat next to the same guy on the plane that I sat next to because I had the same question.
So I cancel my question.
Great thanks.
Thank you all for your time and attention.
At McCormick we're continuing to operate effectively and grow even in the challenging environment that we have today.
We're adapting our product innovation and marketing to meet consumer demand for flavor convenience and value.
We're managing through this period of cost volatility with our pricing actions and our CCI programs and we're expanding our presence in fast-growing emerging markets.
Through our global operations we have leadership and employees in place to deliver a year of strong financial performance for McCormick shareholders.
Thank you.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my thanks to those participating on the call today.
We hope to see you at our Investor Conference 3 weeks from today.
Through April 3 you may access a replay of this call at (877) 660-6853.
The account number is 309 and the ID is 389082.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If you have any follow-up questions I can be reached at (410) 771-7244.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Ken Goldman of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on a little late so forgive me if you addressed this.
But can you talk a little bit about the environment in China both on the Consumer and Industrial side for you right now? Yes the environment is still pretty healthy in China.
What you saw in the second quarter was -- what had looked like a slowdown from first quarter the reality is we were up against a price increase from last year in the Consumer business which kind of impacted it.
As I talk to people about China what I'm hearing from people that are in heavy industry is that they're seeing some slowdown in the Chinese economy but people in the consumer space are still seeing pretty robust growth.
And that's what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the U.S.
I mean you are able to maintain volumes despite taking price increases.
Do you attribute that more to the category that you're in right now or more towards some actions that you're doing or a combination of both? Because it is unusual in packaged food to sort of see that environment right now.
Most companies are reporting volume declines.
Just curious how you think about that.
We saw a short-term volume decline as we always do when we took pricing and I think what we're seeing now is a little bit of a return to -- as consumers have gotten used it.
And as they lived out of their pantries for a little while we're starting to see some return to volume.
We're also continuing to put pressure on with new product innovation.
We're advertising and have increased our spend.
And I think we're fortunate that we're in a good business.
There's no question about that but we're also being proactive as we -- just to make sure that we give consumers reason to continue to buy our products.
I think another thing that we're seeing is private label pricing has kind of started to close some of these gaps.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly is there anything we should be aware of in terms of pepper pricing or cost rather or anything that may force you to take your prices up or down in the near term? Yes.
There's -- we have -- pepper pricing is continuing to flatten but still is above last year.
And so we have taken some additional pricing but it's a lot more stable than it has been.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've owned Kamis for 3 quarters now I think.
Can you give us a little bit more details on how plans are working to for example introduce more of traditional McCormick products expanding more into other markets outside of Poland? Just a little bit more detail there.
I'm sorry Thilo.
Could you just repeat the question? It's a -- we had a little trouble online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you've owned Kamis for 3 quarters and I was just hoping for a few more details on how the plans there are progressing the plans are to introduce traditional McCormick products expand into other countries and so on.
Yes.
With the Kamis business what we're doing is one we think there's a lot of leverage in the Polish market from good category management.
So we're doing that.
We're bringing product innovations that are working well in other markets under the Kamis brands in Poland and we're continuing to expand distribution across Russia.
In fact we're very encouraged by what we're seeing with sales growth in Russia.
So we think the Kamis brand -- we'll continue to market it as Kamis in Poland and Russia at this point but we see it as offering a lot of opportunity for growth for us.
We're very very pleased with that acquisition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What kind of organic growth are you getting from Kamis right now? I don't have those numbers in front of me but I know that we're right on our acquisition plan.
But I don't have yet the numbers in front of me.
I think Joyce can help with that.
Yes historically it's been sort of a mid-single-digit rate.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question just about your guidance.
So you're taking up your marketing spending to -- compared to what you had before.
I think your JV income decline is more than what I would have thought previously yet your EPS guidance is unchanged.
Where is that money coming from? Well we just increased our CCI obviously as well.
So we're reinvesting behind our businesses.
We're generating more CCI.
So that's obviously giving us an opportunity to continue to invest behind our brands.
This is Gretchen calling in for Alexia.
Just a quick question on Kohinoor.
You guys mentioned that you have some new product launches that you're hoping to put through at the end of this year.
I'm just wondering when would you expect that to start benefiting the top line and how much benefit should we expect.
I don't know that we projected a top line result.
But because that business is growing through a combination of expanded distribution and new products that the products that we're introducing are products that are similar to our Zatarain's rice mixes.
We're calling them Rice and Spice and they're Biryani-type products that's -- that make it easy for Indian consumers to prepare staple kinds of meals.
But we -- this is kind of a first foray into those value-added products in India and so we're excited about it but I think it's too early to project what we think the benefit's going to be.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification regarding your guidance.
So you maintained EPS guidance despite lower unconsolidated income is because you now expect higher operating income for the year right? Yes we're still reiterating our operating income guidance at 9% to 11%.
We obviously had a little bit of a benefit from the tax rate as well in Q2.
As you saw that helped to offset that weakness on unconsolidated.
But given the fact that we are maintaining our range you could imply that perhaps our operating income would trend towards the upper end but we're still comfortable at that 9% to 11%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding the U.S.
consumer and more generally on your brand marketing spending.
I mean what -- you obviously increased your marketing budget for this year.
That talks to the confidence that you have in the returns you'll get on that investment.
Where -- from a regional basis is it more skewed to one area versus another? And can you talk about what you're seeing in those regions where you're investing that makes you feel confident that investing more will generate at least the same returns you've been getting in the past or more? Yes.
I mean we continue to change our marketing mix to see -- to work on things that hit.
So we're moving more of our money into digital.
And some of that digital is regional where we're working with specific customers on promotions to really hit consumers.
By and large our marketing spend is national.
What we saw in the last quarter as we're heading into the third quarter is a pretty heavy spend behind our new products for our new grilling products.
We do have some regional promotions.
We've got a big Old Bay focus going on right now in the Baltimore area.
There's 50-plus restaurants that have special menu items and we've got billboards all over the place that kind of tie into the 18 -- War of 1812.
We are relaunching our dry seasoning mix products and have a number of new products behind that.
So we have a fair amount of activity.
Again as you'll look at how we've increased our marketing spend this is a consistent story that we've had over the last 5 or 6 years where we look to invest but we continue to manage our mix so that we're getting the highest returns that we can.
Research Division</strong> Just one last one on gross margins.
Longer term I mean obviously you've -- you had this long-term target of increasing gross margins every year but last couple of years because of input costs we haven't gotten there.
So what's the potential for gross margins longer term? Well we still believe on a long-term basis and the key event would be a less volatile commodity cost environment because that's what you just alluded to.
In the past 2 out of 4 years we've seen commodity cost 5 -- 2 out of 5 years.
So -- but in a more stable environment we would continue to believe the higher mix of the Consumer business would favorably impact that gross margin as well as the others that we have within the Industrial business on focus on higher value-added products should favorably impact that as well.
Yes.
The stable environment with our CCI efforts a lot of that -- a lot of the CCI will find its way back into margins in a volatile environment like we've been in.
We haven't priced to fully recover our cost.
So we've used that combination of pricing and CCI to try and moderate the impact on margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you 2 questions.
The first one just in relation to the cost inflation for the year.
I think you had indicated it was going to sort of step down sequentially each quarter.
I just want to get a sense this is a good gross margin performance in relation to that cost inflation.
Do we -- should we expect the second half gross margin to be up then for the business? Well we're still looking at stabilization of the gross margin.
A lot of things play into that product mix portfolio mix but we're not looking for a big rebound.
I mean you could see slight improvement as we progress through the year.
But generally the way we're looking at it is that it would be comparable to the prior year and be flattish.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask in relation to the U.S.
you've had some pretty solid growth overall.
Just in kind of studying some of the IRI and Nielsen trends it's shown that your branded sales have softened a little bit and private label has picked up by a little bit.
I know we're looking at just kind of some unique channels.
You're not looking at the all channel data.
Have you seen that -- any kind of sequential weakening basically between branded and private label in your business? I don't know that sequential weakening -- what we've actually seen is private label growing faster in grocery and our brand growing faster in unmeasured channels.
And so I think the consumer is going to some other places.
Certainly we're not happy about the results that we've seen in core grocery and we're working -- we've got a lot of efforts to make sure that we're not losing share there.
But what we're seeing is that we're holding share across the board and private label is growing in grocery.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one.
Gordon what sort of tax rates should we look at for the year? If you said it I'm sorry I missed it.
But is it around 30% for the year? The underlying rate we continue to expect to be around 30%.
Obviously as you saw in this quarter there can be a discrete item that pops up that can either be positive or negative depending on the fact and circumstances.
But the underlying rate we're still looking at 30%.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- we just had our conference in Europe.
A couple of companies preannounced their worse-than-expected trends but you had very respectable results in France the U.K.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about why the outperformance and why investors should think that can continue.
And then I have a follow-up.
Well what we've seen in this year is good results behind the investments that we've made in the business with a combination of new products and supporting those with pretty solid advertising.
Our homemade dessert item the Vahiné brand in France continues to perform pretty well.
And so while we recognize -- and I was in Europe last week too unfortunately not at your conference Eric but there is an underlying sense of a lack of confidence across the board and I think uncertainty.
So we're just going to continue to do what we do with our products.
But I do -- I absolutely acknowledge that it's a tough environment.
One thing that is helping us is Kamis continues to grow pretty well in Poland.
While the currency's weakening a little bit it seems to continue to be a pretty robust economy for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well the invitation to next year's conference is still open.
But in terms of the M&amp;A environment obviously this type of landscape makes for winners and losers.
You're winning and there's been a lot of companies over the years that are private that you've had your sights on.
And I'm just kind of wondering are you seeing a little bit more interest on their part whether it's family-run businesses or parts of other larger companies where there's been an approach and maybe we should expect a little bit more activity? Well we have an active pipeline.
And in our business we know the businesses that are attractive to us and we generally know the people that own them and nurture those relationships.
I'd say we still have a pretty active pipeline.
Research Division</strong> But I wanted to ask around the edges here.
At the Industrial business you said that there's higher demand for customized seasoning blends and it's across a variety of geographies.
Is that one customer introducing a new product across a variety of geographies?  Or what is that specifically? Well it is -- it certainly -- our expertise and focus is on savory seasonings.
A lot of those end up in snacks but a lot of companies are investing behind new product innovation in snacks.
But it's not specific to one customer.
We're -- we are seeing a fair bit of activity from a number of customers.
I'd also say though that while we have a robust pipeline there's a continued focus from a lot of our Industrial customers on productivity initiatives.
And in a lot of cases we can help with those with our products and help them deliver great flavor with reduced costs.
But where we really like to play is in the new product innovation.
Research Division</strong> So are you in both of those things right now? Is that what you mean Alan? Yes.
I think our efforts are pretty split.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Can you talk a little bit more about Kohinoor? Are you on plan in India as well as Poland? We heard from Hershey's saying that they've had troubles there and they aren't the first.
What are you finding about -- that's unique about that market? It just seems that selling spice and seasonings in a more value-added way would be a challenge particularly in India.
We're pretty much on plan with our business in India.
Certainly the environment is a little more volatile and the way we think about India is really as a long-term great growing market.
And we know it's not going to be smooth.
There'll be some bumps along the way but we're pleased with where we are so far in that business and excited about the prospects as we invest in new products.
But remember our core business in India isn't selling spices to Indians.
We're selling higher-value-added rice products and we're selling through our joint venture in Southern India more value-added blends.
So it's less about selling those core spices which are available on every street and more about selling value-added products.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And lastly CapEx.
Your CapEx spend is flat versus a year ago for the first 6 months.
I think I would expect it to be a little bit higher I think because now you have those acquisitions.
What is your CapEx guidance again for this year? And at some point will you need to increase capacity and CapEx spending for those deals? Yes.
Actually we are still forecasting in $100 million to $110 million in CapEx spending.
I know it's not reflected yet at the beginning part of the year but we're still projecting that.
And it does reflect what you just said Rob.
To some extent it's organic growth in some of our emerging markets where we actually are adding capacity because of the growth that we've experienced in places like China and in other cases it is through the integration of our new acquisitions and just by virtue of the fact that these acquisitions themselves had a CapEx budget that we now have included.
Yes.
We've got a new technical center and a plant expansion in Guangzhou that will be online later in the year.
We're starting to work on plant expansion in Poland.
So there's a fairly good investment program that we expect it'll be right in line with our capital forecasts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up a little bit on a couple of items.
One you've mentioned strong trends in the QSR channel.
Has that changed at all? Has that trend either accelerated or changed? I don't think it's changed very much.
I think there was -- within QSR there are companies that are doing well and companies that are struggling a little bit.
Remember we're pretty well invested in QSR in most of our major markets in the U.S.
and Europe and in China.
So we're continuing to see good growth in China.
We had some volume wins in the U.S.
which we're seeing that are reflecting.
So it's not necessarily that the customers are growing as much as we had some share gains.
So I don't think that there's a major change in that trend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we attended your Investor Day I thought the discussion about your global management board was interesting.
Are there other any new developments coming out of that global management board? Well we're continuing to invest in -- we really use that as our key source of executive development and we're continuing to invest in that.
Our boards are ongoing and they bring us projects that either help us grow our business or reduce our costs.
So it's an -- it really is an ongoing effort and they're working on some of the big strategic projects for the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally I always ask about the fall bake season.
How is it -- how's the selling going? We're pretty encouraged.
We really feel like we're locked for a good fall season.
Obviously we need the -- a return to more traditional weather.
But I would say that we feel like our plans are well in place.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
A couple sort of follow-ups.
Just regarding brand marketing support.
Where is that focused for the upcoming quarter and maybe the second half? And then how does that -- are we talking above the line or below the line or both? Well it's a little bit of both.
I mean we certainly as we always do are looking at some value programs.
Some of that is what we would call I guess below the line where we're investing in advertising reminding people the value of our products.
There are some promotional activity.
There always is.
I would say the promotional activity is much higher than it is in previous periods.
But the real effort is in -- is making sure that we're communicating about our new products.
And as we head into the fall season we've got a good campaign on Grill Mates right now.
We've got a good campaign on Old Bay and Zatarain's and the new products for Zatarain's in the U.S.
And then in the fall we'll be emphasizing the baking products and then as we head into Christmas more of the holiday meal kind of products.
Just to add to that Mitch last year if you recall we incrementally spend in the fourth quarter against holiday and it was approximately about a $10 million increase versus the prior year in advertising and promotion.
And that was a function of the good result that we saw from the holiday programs in prior years.
So we're going to be hitting holiday again hard this year.
Research Division</strong> But it will be -- will it be sort of at the same rate as last year? Yes.
The back half would be generally at the same spending levels as last year up slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How did -- I mean you sort of mentioned this earlier.
But how did your alternative channels perform versus the traditional food-drug en masse? Well a little stronger than the traditional grocery.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in -- when you look at within your core spice business in the U.S.
how did the -- your traditional single spice business do compared to your seasoning blends and those sort of higher-value-added products? Over the last 13 and 52 weeks volume was down a bit in grocery on core items.
Dry seasoning mixes were also down a bit.
In spices we made that up with the other channels.
In dry seasoning mixes that's a category that we're in the process of refreshing and we believe need some renewed investment.
Now dry seasoning mixes are coming off a couple of years of really strong growth as the economy weakened.
So we may be reverting a bit to the mean but we're continuing to invest.
That's an important business for us and we get a lot of great new products and new packaging that we're in the process of introducing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question is also -- if you could just remind me sort of where -- in your CCI cost-savings program where you're focused where you're seeing the incremental savings emanating from.
As you may recall back in March we took it up this year's to $45 million.
And generally what we're still seeing is about a 60-40 split between Consumer and Industrial on those and still about 75% 80% would hit the cost of goods sold line and the rest would be hitting SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> I know we're up against the time.
So just a quick follow-up.
You had mentioned already about some of the trends you've seen around alternate channels and your performance there versus private label and others.
We all get the expanded outlet coverage data this coming week or Monday basically.
Anything you would basically tell us to sort of look for insight do you think we should be looking for out of that expanded coverage data? And if it's really the same as what you've already said that's fine.
But if there's anything else we should be looking at in general I would love to hear it.
Yes.
I think we've been pretty transparent on what we do expect to see.
I mean I think from our -- I can't speak to any other category but ours but I would say that we would see a little stronger performance as you see that expanded data versus what you're currently seeing.
With no other questions I want to thank everybody for participating in the call.
I'm really confident that we're doing the right things and executing effectively to succeed in a difficult environment.
McCormick has a great portfolio of products across both our business segments and our operations around the world where we bring our passion for flavor to customers and consumers.
As demonstrated by our financial results we're delivering higher performance and committed to increasing value for our shareholders.
Thanks everyone.
And I'd like to add my thanks to those that participated on the call.
Through July 4 you can access a telephone replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The account number for this replay is 309 and the ID number is 394563.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information or any other questions you can reach me at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes today's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with North Coast Research.
In looking at the QSR business in Europe versus North America one's weaker one's stronger.
Yet the economies they both have a fair amount of consumer stress.
Can you give us some insight on that difference? I think part of what's going on there is that we've gained a little bit of share in the European business.
Our share is relatively flat in the U.S.
business.
So I think -- I wouldn't necessarily -- and I'd say the same thing about Asia that I wouldn't necessarily draw an inference into the performance of that channel based on our results because there's a lot of things that move back and forth based on what items we supply and what the customers are promoting and what share we've gained.
All right.
And then looking at the underlying tax rate Gordon you're comparing a $0.04 favorable variance to the underlying tax rate.
Is that suggesting something in the low 30s? Well as we indicated for Q4 we expect it actually to be below 30% more in the range of 27%.
Or you're saying the low -- you're asking about the underlying tax rate I apologize.
Right.
The underlying tax rate would be around -- about 30%.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about some trends that we've been seeing in the consumer takeaway data?  It looks as though in spite of the seasonings in the U.S.
there's been a bit of encouragement from private label dollar and volume share.
Could you just tell us a little bit about what's going on there with respect to price gap to private label private label promotional activity? And do you expect that kind of an environment to persist going forward? I think it's going to be a challenging environment going forward but as we look at it I mean the 4-week data is pretty skewed because it can be based on what we're promoting and when we're promoting it.
And certainly what you're talking about is a factor in the 4-week period.
As I look at it over the year we've actually seen a more aggressive price change with private label than we have necessarily with the brand.
And actually we've grown share over the 52 weeks all channels all outlets with McCormick brands versus private label.
The price gaps had closed pretty significantly.
What we saw in the 4-week was probably some promotional activity that would suggest about 3% price impact from private label and about 5% from the brand.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just quick follow-up.
The Industrial business in Asia/Pacific you mentioned adverse promotional activity.
Again do you think that's likely to persist? Or was it really just affecting this quarter? I think we'll still see some impact of that.
And what it is is that customers are focused on some -- promoting some items that we don't supply so that is certainly a piece of it.
It's not necessarily a drop in their promotional activity.
I'd also take you back to we have very very strong results in the fourth quarter of 2011 in that business.
We were up 16% in volume.
And so I think it's a little bit of they're focused on some other stuff and we're up against a fairly tough comparison and the pipeline has some new products that were launched in the fourth quarter last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gordon if I understood you right you're lowering the underlying guidance for the year by $0.04 offset by the tax benefits you're getting.
Are there any particular parts of the business any particular geographic regions that give you that cause for caution? No I just go back to my comments in the call Thilo which relates just to the general economic environment we're operating in.
Obviously we can all read the headlines and see where there's stress around the world in particular Western Europe where the consumer is still being impacted by the economic environment.
Additionally we did point to the potential for us to reinvest in the brand as well and finally as you heard Alan talk about there are some tough comparisons in particular in the Industrial side that we're up against in Q4 on the Asia/Pacific business that -- where we were up 16% in the prior year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So does the economic slowdown that we read about in China and Brazil and so on does that give you any particular concern? Are you already seeing an impact on your business from that? Our Consumer business in China is performing very well as we continue to grow our distribution and gain share there.
So that's performing well.
We are seeing some slowdown on the Industrial side which we've seen over the last several months.
But again it's a factor of what the customers are promoting versus what we're necessarily supplying and that's a piece of it.
We're cautious in Europe and have seen some additional pressure there although we think we've got the right plans in terms of our new products and our promotion plans and then building for a good holiday finish.
I mean I would highlight again what Gordon already said is that we are going to continue to invest in advertising and a part of that conservative guidance in the fourth quarter is behind our investment spending.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then last question I had for you it seems like the growth of modern trade in India might accelerate given the regulatory changes there.
Is that something that would be particularly beneficial for you? Yes we believe that is very beneficial for us because our products even though we cover the traditional trade as well as the modern trade there our products are really geared for convenient package safe items and so we do benefit as modern trade expands.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify that on a follow-up comment there to Thilo.
The -- in the fourth quarter if you -- you've called out roughly $15 million of incremental marketing for the year.
Are you saying you could go over and above that if you see the opportunity in the quarter? Or is your incremental investor talking about that $15 million? The current guidance would indicate that we would be up at about $15 million would be an incremental $2 million within the quarter with the potential for us to spend more if we determine we think it'll be an effective spend.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's part of the conservatism for the fourth quarter? Is that -- I'm just trying to understand it.
That is part of it as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
And then I just wanted to ask as well you took your CCI cost-saving amount up for the year.
Did that come through the business already? Do you expect that to come? So is there an improving outlook for that? And I guess I'd also like to ask is that more SG&amp;A-related? The SG&amp;A was a little lower than I thought this quarter.
It's pretty consistent delivery as we progress through the year Chris and it's a function -- it's really as we progress through the year more visibility into the projects and the timing of their execution.
So it's pretty even as it relates to the year and the quarters.
I'd say because of the fourth quarter size we tend to incur more of the benefit just by virtue of the amount of production and materials that flow through our facilities.
It's still a skew towards the cost of goods sold line.
It's about 80% -- 75% to 80% do relate to our cost of goods sold while the remainder is in SG&amp;A.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I had one final one.
That was -- in this third quarter have you said or could you say how much the benefit to consumer-operating profits came from the acquisitions? Within the quarter itself I -- we don't get into that level of detail but I can say we're pleased we're on track relative to the initial accretion that we have given.
All the acquisitions have been pretty much performing in line.
So I view that prior guidance as a gauge and as you know we start to anniversary those acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Two questions I guess.
First one on the top line.
I guess you indicated that about half of the local currency growth is acquisition-related and half is price.
Is that correct? Yes.
Eric that is correct.
So the 9% it roughly breaks down into half price half acquisition with...
Some slight volume.
Minimum volume mix on that.
Research Division</strong> I guess because you've done a great job of introducing new products in various niches across the industry as well as geographically.
And so you highlighted them so much Alan I assume that they're performing at least in line with your expectations on a global level.
But does that mean that there is some decent elasticity on the core given the 4% to 5% pricing? I would also remind you that we had the buy-in in advance of the price increase last year.
So -- and it's hard to gauge that but if we took that out we would have more substantial volume impact in the quarter.
So we feel pretty good about what our new products are doing for us and they're going to hit what we expect them to.
I would say we still are under pressure with volumes as the consumer is under pressure.
So we're seeing some level of that elasticity that we always see.
Research Division</strong> And again from a broader top line perspective some of the companies that have reported recently have talked about improving let's say volume growth across a number of categories.
Do you kind of echo that sentiment Alan or are you more cautious? I think the volume trend in our category is a little stronger than the 52-week and a little weaker than the 12-week in the latest.
So -- and you can't gauge that much for it.
We feel like in the fourth quarter at least in the U.S.
that we're set up for very good execution against last year.
Now last year as we saw was pretty weak in December from a takeaway standpoint.
So what we're gauging is what do we ship in the fourth quarter? But we feel like we're well-poised.
We've got good display activity.
Things are going in.
And so we're pleased with how we're set up.
And the thing that we're watching is what the consumer takeaway ends up to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question to -- I guess to this Gordon to the tax issue I'm not even sure I know how to ask the question let alone whether I'll understand the answer.
But I thought that when you repatriated cash which was I think one of the points you made in the text that when you repatriate cash that it generally elevates your tax rate.
And yet you're saying it's kind of repatriating cash and getting a credit and therefore the tax rate's lower.
How is all that working? It's the complexities of the foreign tax credit calculation the relationship of U.S.
earnings to non-U.S.
earnings calculations and the characterization of those earnings and earnings and profit pools foreign exchange rate relationships at the time.
So it would take a lot of time but that's in a nutshell what it's all boils down to.
Research Division</strong> You have some insight into some broader trends in U.S.
food consumption just based on your relationship with some of your customers in the food manufacturing side.
But we're starting to hear some companies as Eric said talk about some volume improvements.
At least less pressure on that end.
Can you give us some general insight into what you're seeing across food manufacturing without mentioning companies in particular of course but just is it sustainable is it something that people are talking just building on easier comps? Do a lot of your customers are they starting to feel better about things? Or is it a little bit of a "Hey let's wait and see how we go and not get too excited yet."  I'm just curious based on your particular vantage point what you're seeing out there across food.
I think the general consensus that we're hearing is that people are seeing some recovery in volumes and some moderation of cost increases not that they're going lower but that they aren't going up as high as they have in the past.
What we're seeing from a new product activity standpoint is that our customers are focused on bigger fewer new products as opposed to a steady stream of the base hits.
So I think that -- which would tell me that they're feeling more confident in that and so I think again going back to what we're dealing with at this time last year which was significant commodity inflation and pricing there's -- the commodity inflation is not as high as it was and so we expect that we should see the ability for the consumers to buy a little more and not have that sticker shock.
Because I think what we saw early in the year was a little bit of the sticker shock people living out of their pantries.
And I think kind of the general impression is that things are improving a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you seem to be doing well in China at -- on the Consumer side at a time when many of -- many consumer companies aren't right? And I'm sure it's partially because spices are more of a staple but partially because of your strong execution too.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the Chinese economy overall? There've been a lot of consumer companies not just in food citing those tough trends there like I said.
I'm just interested in your views and maybe whether if there is a slowdown in China does that affect your plans in any way? Or is it just more full steam ahead for you? I think that the long-term growth rate of China is going to be good and positive and it's going to be an important part of our business as well as for a lot of people's business.
We're seeing a general slowdown and some impact of -- with consumer confidence I think in China.
What we're seeing in our Consumer business is that we're continuing to gain share and increase our distribution.
So we're offsetting a little -- some of those trends by driving our business.
We've increased our advertising there.
We're increasing our new product activity and so I think we're offsetting some of that.
But I think there is a general slowdown that we've seen over the last say 9 to 12 months in China.
But I think the long term -- my long-term view on China is that it's going to continue to grow and be a great market for us.
That's why we're making the investments that we're making with the Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments business but we're also investing in our facilities.
We're in the process of completing a new technical center and a plant expansion.
So we're pretty bullish long-term on China.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification on your guidance.
So you didn't change your EBIT guidance right? I mean a lot of the noise is just below the line correct? Yes we reaffirmed operating income growth at 9% to 11% that is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Can you just talk a little bit more in depth about what's going on in India?  And you mentioned your experience in China helping with that.
So specifically I mean did you expect to make this change in your go-to-market strategy I guess before you made the -- or when you made the acquisition? Or have things changed? And just give us a little bit more color on why you think that's the right idea.
Yes we were pretty regionally focused and what we're seeing as the modern trade starts to grow in India and then -- and from some of the other earlier comments we expect that that could accelerate.
But the activity that we have focused on the geographies.
We felt like we were missing some opportunities.
This is a model that we had in China.
So as we went into the acquisition we did expect to make this change to -- and what we're talking about is a change from focusing on geographies to organizing our sales by channel.
So we did expect to make that change.
We -- it's early in making that but we're very confident that that's going to be the right move for us and especially as modern trade grows.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful and just back to China.
I may have missed some of your comments but your Industrial business saw a slowdown and that was related to quick serve and partly China.
Is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> So -- but your Consumer business in China did pretty well right? Yes.
That is correct yes.
Research Division</strong> So overall I mean we saw last couple of quarters the Industrial business was really hitting on all cylinders.
Is there any trade-off between sort of Away From Home and at home going on in your opinion in terms of consumer spending? I'm not sure I would draw necessarily that trend at this point.
It's something that we watch but I don't know that we've seen a measurable enough impact to really say that at this point.
I think it's more the internal work that our teams are doing in the Consumer business there.
Research Division</strong> Just curious about the comment about reinvesting into advertising.
It sounds like you want to reinvest a little bit more than the $15 million that you targeted for the year.
But for the incremental dollar of reinvestment Alan would you -- is that the best place to put it or is it in India or Poland? And are there places to put it in those 2 markets? If you had the incremental dollar to put it in there what kind of activities would you put it in in those 2 markets? Well for short-term investments media either whether -- either digital TV or TV or where we have the opportunity to spend we'd seem to be -- we tend to be more developed in our developed markets in being able to do that.
Our programs were set and it's easy to add more incremental in either the EMEA region or in the U.S.
to -- for that to be effective.
And in the smaller markets or in the newer markets we're less positioned with programs that we can pull the trigger on in -- on the short term.
Long term we -- long term by the way we are investing in Poland.
We are -- we're investing in India as well.
But for the short term we tend to develop -- we tend to focus more on our developed markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay I think I get that.
And then a follow-up.
Your guidance says that because of the tough global environment you want to be a little more cautious in your guidance here I guess.
But your organic sales here have been outstanding all year with -- and this quarter your volume mix would have been up 3% pricing up 4.5% if not for the pull-forward.
So what's to be cautious about? Well I guess I mean just pointing back to some of the comments we made earlier in particular we are up against some comparisons in the Industrial side in Asia/Pacific that is creating some level of caution for us as we head into the fourth quarter.
And again we are still looking at a world in which we see consumer stress and uncertainty and that always gives us a moment to pause.
And then as we -- I guess I'll just point finally to the comments earlier on the potential to reinvest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Gordon just so we get the top line right for fourth quarter because of the pull-forward last year your volume mix was only up about 1%.
So for fourth quarter this year should we take the full shift and assume that you have a 2% easy comp or I think 2% or 3% easy comp in fourth quarter on volume mix? Yes certainly that -- the fact that it was pulled in would give us an easier comp in -- versus the prior year because of that $10 million.
That would be as it relates to the U.S.
consumer.
The other thing that I would suggest that we need to keep in mind as well is we're going to anniversary the acquisitions.
We do have continued pressure from FX and we're starting to anniversary the price increases from last year in certain markets.
So I would just -- I'd also have that in mind as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the pricing won't be quite as robust as it was year-to-date? That is correct.
Because if you recall part of the whole reason for that $10 million shift is we started to implement that in the fourth quarter of last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So should we think in terms of the mix of this more volume than price in fourth quarter or maybe even? You would certainly expect a little bit of both but relative to prior quarters where -- or this quarter I should say you'd expect some more volume.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on the repatriation of cash.
Why now? Is there a change in potential acquisitions? Or can you help me understand the timing of that? We're constantly evaluating our capital structure Ann and opportunities for us to improve our overall cost of capital.
And as a result of that as we evaluate and we look at our future cash needs and the current programs we have here in the U.S.
we felt now is a good time to pull some of that cash back.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
As we think about next year can you comment on expectations for input cost commodity cost anything we should watch out for? Yes we certainly expect commodity cost to be up and we're putting our budgets together now so it's kind of early but we would expect something in the low single-digits in terms of cost of goods inflation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then third I'm just curious consumer behavior in the U.S.
are you seeing any changes in impulse purchases any change in consumer behavior? I wouldn't say anything dramatic.
I mean we saw the real short-term issue in the first part of the year but I don't think we're seeing any major trend changes at all.
Somebody just asked about the inflation outlook for COGS but any other thoughts about the volatility of raw material product supplies over the next couple of quarters? We're watching that all the time because as you know we're sourcing from some potentially volatile areas of the world.
We don't see anything that would suggest that we're going to have major supply disruption.
But we're always managing that and staying -- trying to stay ahead of that as we always do with our global sourcing team.
So we make decisions on bringing in more inventory when we expect something to happen or we expect a weather event that may cause some change in yield.
So we're always monitoring that.
But we don't see anything immediately that's going to be a major impact.
And Gordon the press release mentioned a reduced investment in working capital this quarter versus a year ago but your inventories are still at a strategically built-up level I would gather the $628 million.
Yes clearly last year we were building inventory for as you recall 2 primary reasons.
One was the impact of price on the purchase of raw materials and the other was a strategic inventory build as well.
We don't reveal specifically our position but we still have a view on that.
And as a result we do carry some strategic inventory.
But that you build and then you maintain or you roll a little off or you add a little bit to it so year-on-year the growth rate is not as dramatic obviously.
And if you look at the increase of the inventory versus prior year about half of it after you adjust for FX is going to be related to the acquisitions we did in the fourth quarter of last year.
And the rest of it would be price and some -- what's left of whatever the strategic inventory build was.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a quick question about the frozen space.
It's an area overall that's been the last couple of years right a pretty rough place it's a pretty fragmented space.
It's been pretty price-competitive.
And again I'm talking about broadly speaking right across sort of the frozen space.
But you've had some -- obviously you've come up with some interesting entries here of late obviously in some of the key niches in which you operate.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what you see is the opportunity there at least for you because that seems to buck the trend a little bit of the broader trends we've seen in this space overall.
Yes what we're trying to do is deliver the core products that we -- that makes sense for us in a frozen format that makes -- that gives the consumers convenience and value.
We're not trying to be 10-for-10s on frozen lasagna or anything like that.
We're really niche-focused on the specialty items that we have like Thai Kitchen and Zatarain’s that we believe we can make a difference in.
So by staying focused that way we're kind of going against those trends.
We recognize we have to continue to innovate and bring new products and keep that fresh.
But that's our strategy in frozen.
It's not to be a 30% supplier or a 30% share.
It's really to augment those regional businesses that we have.
Research Division</strong> And as you see it in those sort of sub-segments of sort of the frozen space if we were to look at the data that we have access to I assume we'd see growth rates and whatnot that look I guess perhaps very different than one would see if you just looked at the overall the broader frozen entrée category or something like that.
Is that a fair statement? That's correct.
And just to put it in perspective our size in frozen would probably be a rounding error in a lot of those big companies.
It's a pretty small business.
It's good for us it's great for Zatarain’s but it's pretty small relative to the overall category.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had one quick follow-up.
I think in the press release and also in your prepared remarks you talked about the innovation in Europe and how that will help to counter the negative economic trends there.
Does that mean that the innovation is geared more towards value products and if that's the case what impact would that have on margin? No it's actually a combination of things.
It's -- we've got a pretty good stable of dessert aid [ph] products with Vahiné in France and then a lot of what we're doing both in France and the U.K.
is launching against some of our global platform.
So we launched for instance Grill Mates in the U.K.
We have launched Recipe Inspirations across Europe and Bag 'n Season across Europe.
So it really is bringing our product platforms much actually less value focus than product innovation -- or than -- it's more about product innovation than it is about value in those markets.
And we still have the value items that we are advertising but it's more around the value of the cost of the meal as opposed to we're going to try to sell stuff really really cheap.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So in a difficult economic environment the approach is still if you have the product on the shelf it should sell and you don't need to do anything in particular to push these product? We still have a level of promotional activity and we have been promoting especially behind our recipe mix our dry seasoning mix items in those markets.
But our product innovation isn't necessarily geared in -- to value.
Research Division</strong> I just had a detailed follow-up about -- to the Asia/Pacific Industrial business.
And you're getting a lot of questions about that.
I just -- could you refresh my memory or our memory about how the product actually works how the revenue actually works? Do you -- yes I mean I saw the press release about the sort of the slowdown of the promotion of certain items by a customer but do you get paid as products ship typically in -- even in an overseas Industrial business where there might some inventory taken on by the customer? What's the lag from the time people are eating a delicious McCormick-enhanced food service product to the time it hits McCormick's revenue? Our revenue cycle is pretty much we bill it as we ship it.
So it's not necessarily the way it's really seen [ph].
It's pretty much the same that we do around the world.
So if there is -- but also the use-up on the kinds of products.
Our Industrial business in Asia is predominantly a quick-service restaurant condiment or breading business.
And so as we ship it it gets used up pretty quickly in the restaurants.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then so there's not really -- there doesn't really tend to be a big customer inventory issue? No I don't think so at all.
I mean the only place that could even happen is where we're shipping for instance a bread or to a chicken supplier that could end up in inventory there.
But from our revenue standpoint as we ship it we would bill it.
And these tend to be our higher-turn items in our portfolio.
Okay.
Great.
I want to thank everybody for your questions and for participating in today's call.
McCormick has a great portfolio of products across our business segments and we've got operations around the world that bring our passion to flavor to customers and consumers globally.
In a difficult environment we have a strategy that's achieving growth and building value for our shareholders.
Thank you Alan.
I'd like to add my thanks to those who participated on today's call.
Through October 4 you may access the telephone replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The account number for the replay is 309 and the ID number is 399044.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information you can reach me at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes today's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the consumer takeaway data in the U.S.? It looks as though the volumes have fallen off a bit in the recent months.
And it's kind of hard for us to tell how much of this is supply chain related or the timing of the Nielsen cutoff dates or maybe Hurricane Sandy and so on.
Maybe you could just go through how much these supply chain issues affected the Americas maybe both consumer and industrial volumes this last quarter.
And then as we look out to 2013 how confident are you in the volume outlook in the North American Consumer business given that consumer takeaway data that we're seeing? Yes a couple of things Alexia.
The Nielsen data cutoff I think on the 22nd or 23rd so -- I think it was 22nd.
So we missed 2 pretty important days of sales for our products.
And as we look at the more longer-term based on IRI which is what we measure we saw a pretty good recovery and we're encouraged by what we saw in consumer takeaway in the Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday periods for our products.
So that's part of the reason why we are displaying more confidence in our outlook in the U.S.
business.
We think there may be some impact but not a lot of impact of actual consumer takeaway in -- from Hurricane Sandy.
There's certainly an area of the country that is extremely important for us where we have very high shares was impacted but we think the bigger impact was on our supply chain in the quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe as a follow-up.
There were a number of mentions of a negative mix effect this quarter and I'm thinking more globally now.
I'm trying to get a sense for the company-wide margin outlook as you continue to push for growth in emerging markets.
So I mean have you got to a point where you're profitable in places like the Middle East and Africa or China on the Consumer business for example? And if you're not at a level of profitability there yet how are you managing that transition as you really balance growth in emerging markets versus profitability? Alexia this is Gordon.
We are profitable in those markets.
The particular issue within the fourth quarter that we were pointing to relates to the relative mix of the business of the U.S.
versus those foreign markets.
And given the skewing of our results and the importance of the holiday period within the fourth quarter to the extent the U.S.
market doesn't perform to the expectations that we have had that can have a negative relative mix on both the gross and operating margin lines.
So that's the near-term impact that we saw within the quarter.
On a longer-term basis we fully expect the Americas businesses to continue to grow.
We've talked about the Americas margin structure being a strong line as it is so our desire is for that business to continue to grow over time.
And the emerging markets as we gain scale and share and expand our presence there we would expect those to start to approximate overall corporate margins as well.
And the margin story really does differ by which emerging market we talk about.
We've been in certain areas for quite some time China in particular.
That would be a better relative margin to say India where we're still establishing an infrastructure and then versus Poland where we have an established business there that's being integrated into the European team where they have margins comparable to the overall company structure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gordon you indicated that the Wuhan acquisition could add about 1 point of incremental sales growth that's not included in your guidance right now.
Is there any reason to assume that the income benefit would be in similar range? It more than likely would be flat to slightly dilutive and that's primarily a function of the transaction cost that we would expense at the time we close the transaction which we've indicated previously are about $4 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then the China Industrial business what impact do you expect from the troubles that YUM! is having in China or just had in China? Well certainly when our customers in China are not growing their sales it does impact us in a couple of ways and without giving specifics on a particular customer I think our larger customers there our quick service customers have reported challenges in their current sales as a result of this chicken issue.
Most of it the quick service business there is chicken although we do a lot of other kinds of things like dessert toppings and drink mixes.
But if their traffic's down then our sales are under some level of pressure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you see a corresponding uptick in your Consumer business then if China's consumers don't want to go to quick service? Our Consumer business grew very strong in China through the year and we've continued with that momentum.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I have is for the Industrial business overall is the target still to get to about 10% EBIT margin and kind of what's the time frame you're looking at right now? Well what obviously impacts that and many of you heard us talk about this is the material cost environment to the extent it's inflationary which is what we've seen through -- from 2011 to 2012.
Our pricing mechanisms are pass-throughs as we've talked about and those pass-throughs do not allow for a margin expansion.
In fact it's passing dollar for dollar through on the raw material cost and actually has margin -- gross margin points compression on it.
So what we point to in those periods is year-on-year operating income growth.
We've seen consistent year-on-year operating income growth out of that Industrial business and we've seen margins stuck pretty much in that 7.5% to 8% range.
So underneath this period of cost inflation there actually is margin improvement.
But in terms of the timing of when we continue to believe we can get to that say 8% to 10% range is going to be very much a function of the cost outlook.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on gross margins.
You've talked a lot about mix.
So based on your comments my interpretation is that because of the softness in the Americas business your gross margins came in below even your plans.
So if I'm wrong on that please correct me.
But my broader question on gross margins is your long-term goal has been to increase gross margins I believe roughly by 50 basis points every year.
We've had now 2 or 3 years of -- 2 years at least of significant margin compression and now commodity costs seem to be easing.
So at some point shouldn't we start to see gross margins increase higher than the 50% rate that you typically expect? And if you can give us an answer to when that might happen that's my first question.
Akshay this is Gordon.
Your first assumption is correct.
The gross margin impact was very much a function of the geographic mix of the business as we've said in the call and that's primarily the Americas region softness we pointed to.
As we have indicated in the call we expect -- because of a more benign environment improvement in our gross margin this year and that follows 2 years of material cost inflation which we've had that compression on now.
In those periods of material cost inflation we want to make sure that we're still able to deliver operating income dollar growth and certainly our teams primarily in the industrial group but also in the consumer group have been focused on delivering those operating income growth targets.
It's difficult to give you an exact time frame as to where we will be on the gross profit margin in the long term.
I can tell you in a benign environment we would expect this nice steady improvement that we had seen over time and that would be a function of the Consumer business growth outpacing the Industrial business growth.
Our Industrial business margin structure is getting better through their CCI and portfolio mix and that's still the strategy that we have adhered to.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one follow-up on the pension expense issue.
So it's a little bit hard to judge that from an analyst perspective.
So I mean it's been a bit frustrating because your underlying performance has been very solid.
So to glean into that I'm trying to understand I mean when you set your management compensation plans are you excluding those type of issues as onetime? I mean I'm just trying to understand I mean if the interest rate environment reverses how would you deal with some positive tailwinds from this type of item? Just -- our philosophy is that we're all in it.
So when we have a negative like we did in 2012 we take the hit on that.
When we have a negative like we expect in 2013 we've got to figure out how to overcome it from a compensation standpoint.
And when it's positive we expect that there will be some level of benefit to our growth rate.
Obviously every year is unique as we set our compensation plans so we will adjust targets and goals based on that.
But our basic philosophy is we're all in and we're measuring ourselves against top-tier performance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
The first one I want to be clear on was in your discussion with -- to Alexia's question about product -- or about mix.
I want to make sure I also understood the product mix within businesses.
I'm not sure if you were addressing that or if you're addressing the business mix between Industrial and Consumer.
Can you speak to the product mix within each division and how that was a factor? In particular it sounds like it was a negative in Industrial in the quarter.
Yes on the Consumer side it was mostly the volume issue as it relates to the entire portfolio mix in the Americas softness.
But within the Industrial business I would agree that we did have some negative mix in particular in the U.S.
Industrial business within the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that would be related to weaker QSR performance? Is that the main factor there? Yes that's certainly a part of it yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I want to ask just a bigger picture question about I guess the cash flow but more importantly like how you expect to use the cash in 2013? You got some share repurchase authorization available.
And I guess along those lines can you also talk about maybe acquisition pipeline and how that -- it looks for the company from here? Yes I'd say as always our priorities on the use of cash are dividend is extremely important.
Acquisitions because we believe investing in growth is important.
We have some CapEx as we're expanding our facilities in China and Poland specifically and investing in a new flavor technology in the U.S.
which we're very keen on and we think we'll have a positive impact long term on margins in that business.
But we have room as we do acquisitions for cash repurchases with at least the Wuhan acquisition that we have on the table right now we'll continue to buy back shares.
We are always in the market.
We see some level of activity.
I would say it's not as robust as we've seen in some years but we still have -- we have some good targets and continue conversations at expanding our footprint.
Chris I would just add that's given where we are with our targeted debt level and the amount of cash we generate depending on the acquisition size we've historically been able to do both share repurchase and acquisitions and that's our intention as we go into this year.
LLC</strong> I guess first question is just I've heard you say I guess on the Q3 call and also this morning that overall you would expect that consumers would increasingly become a little bit more comfortable spending on flavors because it's such an attractive category and flavor matters at current prices.
But then at the same time it seems like your couponing and retail takeaway in the IRI data which precludes the full holiday does seem to improve a little bit on the margin and volume part of that could be from the increased couponing.
So I'm just curious I guess what studies one have you done not on flavor being a great category but on consumers willing to pay current prices for that flavor; and then two if the couponing seems to be working would there be a point such that you would consider lowering your pricing to actually get volume growth? Thanks.
We do a tremendous amount of work on price elasticity.
And we have as we've gone in this aggressive pricing environment as I said on the call we've had about a 45% increase in commodity cost over the last 4 years and have taken about 25% pricing and we've taken a number of different actions along the way and we are always evaluating the impact of that on volume.
The consumer is looking at 2 things.
One is we're a fairly low-frequency purchase and there has traditionally been less price sensitivity on some of our items than there is in a number of other categories.
All that said though on the shelf when you've got a range of price points ranging everything from $1 up to about $8 in gourmet we want to get the promoted price right when the consumer is there to buy.
Our business is largely a base business which means that a small percentage is sold on promotion.
But as we get into some of these key periods we want to make sure that we're incenting customers to buy our brand and not let them have a reason to walk away.
Coupons are always a part of our mix as are price promotions at certain times of the year that really hasn't changed.
We did view that we needed to make sure that we were driving positive volume consumption in the fourth quarter and so we shifted some of our spending and we'll keep evaluating what the right mix to get to consumers are.
We've taken some price reductions on shelf on a couple of key items that we talked about like vanilla and grinders and we're measuring the impact of that.
We think it's -- the results have been generally positive in terms of that and we'll continue to evaluate certain items to get to the right price points.
And this -- and by the way what we have seen as our pricing has gone up we have seen those price gaps close now as competition largely private label has also taken price increases to either catch up or improve their margins.
So we're seeing that situation moderate a bit.
All that we -- it's fairly complex because of the number of items and we've got different elasticities with different items.
So we may be trying to be sharper on things like dry seasoning mixes and evaluating what we do on certain spice items but we do a tremendous amount of work in really understanding that dynamic.
Research Division</strong> I think you're not the only food company or CPG company that's kind of entered the year thinking that they could increase brand marketing and then have to adjust that expectation down but I wanted to get to a final number for you for the year.
Were you still up about $10 million in terms of increasing your brand marketing for the year and -- I'll leave it at that.
Yes Rob.
We were up $11 million and a significant portion of that was also up in the advertising.
So we were up year-over-year.
We also -- as mentioned we had a significant portion in digital that we're spending behind.
So yes we were up.
Research Division</strong> And was that kind of in line with sales growth or was it kind of below sales growth? And how would we compare that to your guidance for 2013 which is to be in line with sales growth? It was just ever so slightly below sales growth if we do the math.
Research Division</strong> With respect to some of your comments about industrial sales in the Americas I think you were -- and actually the organic side of that were actually pretty good and I think you said it was driven by increased sales of branded products to food service as opposed to the QSR.
So that's fairly consistent I think with some of your comments in the third quarter where you said you were a bit more optimistic that as pricing was starting to wane volumes for the -- just the branded sort of packaged food companies many of which you supply were starting to improve a bit.
So I was hoping to get a bit of an update from you on just kind of how you see the landscape around the branded packaged food guys and if that trend has continued in a way that keeps you somewhat maybe cautiously optimistic from an industry standpoint.
Yes we're encouraged by what we're seeing in that part of the business.
Obviously different companies have different philosophies and challenges.
I'd say the one thing that we didn't see as we went into last year is the amount of actual new product launches that we would typically expect to see.
A lot of our customers are going through restructurings and have focused on some level of reorganization.
We do see a pretty strong pipeline of new product activity among the consumer food customers that we have that does encourage us as we go into the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I know that from time to time not just in your business but in others there can be these quarter-to-quarter shifts in kind of inventory management in key customers particularly in the ends of key retailers' fiscal years and we've seen that from time to time.
Is -- I guess I'm trying to get a sense of how your capabilities or systems allows you to have some visibility to what your inventories are at the customer level.
Has your ability or capabilities there changed at all in the last couple of years to where you have a better sense of how that tracks because it still seems like a lot of companies in this space get blindsided every so often by some of these shifts? And admittedly maybe that's just the reality of the customer shifting things kind of quickly in a given period that you can't read.
But I'm trying to get a sense of what your level of visibility is to that.
Yes we have a level of visibility to about half our U.S.
volume because of things like vendor managed inventory or data that we can purchase to evaluate consumption versus their factory sales.
So we have that level of visibility.
It doesn't -- even in the case of our BMI customers though it doesn't change the fact that they decide on a short term that they're going to aggressively manage inventory that that won't happen.
I would say we did miss this a bit in terms of laying out what we thought was going to happen relative to prior periods because of the amount of pricing that we've taken.
I'd say there's probably a little bit of an underlying caution by a number of our customers because of some softness in December and January of last year.
Now we're seeing the volumes pick up so we're encouraged by that.
But I think in terms of their inventory management there was a level of caution around what they thought they needed to bring in in that period.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I think Gordon said that you felt like separate from the supply chain issues from Sandy that these issues as well around the inventory side seem like they're pretty well behind you or is some of that bleed into the first quarter? I wasn't clear on that piece.
No.
We think it's -- just based on what we've seen so far since we closed the year we're cautiously optimistic and encouraged by what we're seeing in the U.S.
business.
Research Division</strong> I still have a couple of questions.
I guess first Gordon a number of companies have changed their pension accounting and have offset having to take a pension expense hit.
Obviously yours is pretty significant.
Did you look into that and why didn't you use this mark-to-market methodology or maybe Hershey's IFRS approach to offset some of this $22 million in expense? Our philosophy Eric has been to disclose the amount the underlying economics whether -- based on whatever accounting you're using doesn't really change.
So from our standpoint we felt certainly it's important for our investment community to know what the amount is and for you to evaluate the impact to us.
We've given you the cash impact associated with some of the funding as well but we do look at those things.
However we finally landed that the best way to disclose this was purely to give you the amount that was the impact.
And as Alan said we're challenged as a management team to overcome this and move on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on Slide 15 maybe you answered this question but you -- Alan you talked about retail price points.
And maybe you could expand on that a little bit.
I don't recall for a long time you talking about retail price points.
I assume you mean sharpening those to drive consumption higher because you weren't talking about higher pricing in the business.
So...
No there's a couple of initiatives.
One is making sure we got the right prices on items that are price sensitive.
So things like dry seasoning mixes and pepper and vanilla and that sort of thing and so we've got some initiatives on that.
We're not talking about higher prices.
We're talking generally about how we apply our promotion funds to make sure we're hitting the items that are really volume -- that are really price sensitive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question back to Gordon.
You -- right the pension expense is noncash although you are making a contribution.
I guess you have your tax rate going up and I'm not really sure what that means for actual cash taxes paid.
But I guess my point is if EBIT is up 6% to 8% and excluding the pension expense it's up close to 10% and then you've also got the JV income up 10%.
Is your free cash flow in fiscal '13 up double digit especially if inflation and working capital aren't much of a challenge? We haven't a specific number out there Eric but I don't disagree with your math and that certainly could be an outcome as we progress through the year.
Yes we do expect a year of strong cash flow and built into that assumption is that commodity costs are fairly moderate.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One you've commented about the outlook for the Industrial business in the first quarter but can I get some more detail on your outlook for the overall QSR segment of your business for the year and as the year progresses the outlook for that QSR segment? We think it's going to be fairly challenged.
We have some positives in certain markets.
And then as we get into the back half of the year some easier comparisons.
But we do think through the year that that -- and I'm following our customers' releases as closely as -- probably closer than you are because they really impact us.
But I would say that we think that it's going to be fairly challenged.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Alan in Australia can you comment on the environment and how you're approaching the consolidating retailer environment and your strategy to address that changing marketplace? Yes.
Australia has been a tough market for McCormick.
As you all know we're not the brand leader there and so what we have done is we kind of used it as a laboratory in terms of how a second-place supplier challenges a market leader.
And so we've been pretty innovative with new products.
We've been very targeted on the kinds of things that we're doing and -- outside our core spice and seasoning line and we've seen some pretty positive results over the last 2 years as we've done that but it is a challenging market.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed this but I was curious the fourth quarter tends to be a quarter where there's more of a -- branded sales are more emphasized just because of the holiday cooking season and that sort of thing.
So I was wondering if you could comment between the mix of branded versus private label sales if there was an increase in private label sales relative to branded in the fourth quarter? I don't have the actual comparative data between branded and private label in the fourth quarter but typically we do see an increase in branded shares for a couple of reasons.
One is consumers are less willing to take chances on their meals.
The second is private label is pretty prevalent in really popular items but a lot of the items that are purchased at the holiday like nutmeg and pumpkin pie spice and apple pie spice and things like that aren't necessarily replicated in private label because they're a onetime purchase.
So I'm afraid I don't have the data specific to private label in this period on these items in front of me but typically what we've seen is our branded shares are at the highest in the fourth quarter of the year.
I would expect they still are.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then just one other question.
When -- with the retailer inventory adjustments that were occurring in the quarter that you discussed was that concentrated at any one channel or was that across all channels? It was pretty concentrated with a limited number of customers.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment on your digital marketing spending of 12%.
Give us some background on how you spent that in different categories and geographies and how you're evaluating the impact of that.
Sure.
Our focus is in a couple of areas.
The main spending is in our larger consumer markets like the U.S.
and EMEA and we're doing a number of things everything from digital recipes to promotions that we work with on search to really target where consumers are at -- on their mobile phones.
So as they're searching for things like chicken we're working with retailers on driving specific purchases of specific McCormick items to a retailer and we're seeing some really great results with that.
As we continue to expand we have some technologies which allow for individual flavor selection and we've been talking to a number of retailers around tying that to their programs.
But we're very encouraged by what we're seeing in terms of returns how consumers are responding.
The digital consumer is a very engaged consumer and so it's one that increasingly we're reaching out to.
LLC Research Division</strong> And on your CCI is there any evolution or change in the focus of the spending this year or in the savings this year? I wouldn't say specifically.
I think it's been a pretty balanced approach to everything from SG&amp;A to productivity in our manufacturing plants as well as looking at savings within our procurement channels.
So it's pretty balanced and I don't expect that that's going to change.
We're not going to be heavier this year in one versus the other different than we've been in the past.
Thanks for your questions and for participating in the call today.
We do believe interest in flavor continues to grow and McCormick is well positioned to meet this through our growth initiative our increased global presence and our passion for flavor.
While today's environment remains challenging we're staying close to the market we're going to be agile and we're going to adapt our business to drive sales and profit.
McCormick's leaders and all its employees are committed to building shareholder value.
So thank you very much.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my thank you to those that participated on today's call.
Through January 31 you may access the telephone replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The conference ID number is 403908.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information I would welcome your call at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes this morning's conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm kind of popping a couple of quick questions.
Are you able to quantify how large the industrial sales are into China? I guess our look at it has been that it's a fairly small proportion of your total company sales or even the sales of that segment.
So I was just curious about that.
And if you could give us an idea of how much they were down this quarter that will be helpful.
And then just a second broader question.
Do you have views on what's going wrong with the quick service restaurant sector in the U.S.? It seems as though it was in recovery about 1 year 18 months ago and now it seems to be dropping off again.
And I'm wondering if you just have any high-level thoughts on what might be driving that because it seems peculiar given recovery that we're seeing elsewhere across this huge space.
Sure.
Our industrial sales in China are between 2% and 3% of our total sales.
So it's significant.
It's been a good growing business but it's not an overwhelmingly growing business.
I think what's happening with overall restaurant sales and we're seeing a bifurcation I think across a lot of categories with how consumers are spending.
Consumers that are under stress are certainly experiencing the impact of the increased spike attacks and fuel prices as well as a whole lot of other stresses and they're not spending.
Consumers at the higher end seem to be at least so far continuing to spend.
So I think we're seeing a little bit of that play out in our business as well.
We would think that would tend to impact the quick service restaurants more than some of the other broad food service channels.
It's interesting if you look at that chart that we showed on restaurant traffic we were starting to see some sequential recovery which kind of went away in the first quarter.
And we think over time that will continue to get back.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to make sure I understood the guidance for the industrial segment this year.
I think you've guided to the low end of the 3% to 5% organic range or toward that end but you just did minus 3%.
Will the second half be enough to get to that plus 3%? Or is my math wrong there? No that is the guidance.
We were saying that the industrial business will be towards the lower end of that 3% to 5% on a sales growth basis.
And our expectation is that recovery will start to occur as we progress through the year weighted more towards the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question.
We're seeing not just you guys but a couple of other food companies and I realize that you guided to a reversal of this next quarter and historically you've done a good job of spending behind your brands.
But you did lower your marketing as a percent of your consumer sales this quarter.
Other companies like I said have done the same.
Is there something that we should be looking at that you see across food? I mean you see so many different food companies out there that would lead to this happening at a particular time when maybe I didn't perceive that it would happen.
I thought some companies would kind of reinvest drive the volumes a little bit higher both through promotions and advertising.
And we're seeing some companies really cut that ad spending as a percent of sales.
Is there something you're aware of that maybe we haven't thought of or I haven't thought of that's driving some companies in the food space to do this right now? I can't speak broadly to what everybody's strategy is.
But I know in our thinking we've had so much pricing over the last couple of years that we believe it's -- we're working on getting the right shelf price.
So we -- so as you saw in the quarter we increased our promotion spend a little bit and didn't increase our advertising spend.
Now for us we're coming off a pretty heavy increase in the first quarter of last year.
So for us it's just kind of rebalancing and we still expect that our advertising spend for the year will be up pretty much in line with our sales growth so kind of in that 3% to 5% range.
What I do see a number of companies doing and talking about is again getting the shelf price right so that they're capturing volume.
I think everybody like we are are expecting this year's growth to be driven much more by volume than necessarily pricing as we've seen some amount of stability in commodity prices.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about just the cadence of commodity or raw material costs and what this might imply for perhaps '14.
It seems like your guidance assumes significant improvement in gross margins.
I'm getting to around 150 basis points in the back half of the year.
Can you help us understand like what are we going to see in terms of commodity prices or raw material costs in the back half of the year? And are you taking any positions for 2014? Is 2014 supposed to be a down year in raw material prices? Or is that too sort of early to even think about that? Starting with 2014 I'm reluctant to go that far out with any forecasting given the volatile environment we've lived through in the past 5 years.
So I don't want to talk too specifically about 2014 or our positions.
But to help you with our thinking in the back half of the year on the gross margin improvement it's going to be a combination of things that we discussed in the call.
One is certainly the material cost inflation we see easing as we go into the back half of the year so we're feeling that 3% guidance more in the front half of the year.
The second is the CCI for us occurs throughout the year.
So we'll be incurring the CCI benefits as we progress and that will help offset that as we get into the back half of the year and actually help improve margins.
And then lastly the business mix both within the portfolio and the total portfolio.
If you recall that fourth quarter which is a large quarter for us was not as strong as we wanted in the fourth quarter for our U.S.
consumer business.
And our expectation this year is that business will perform better and that in fact will have a very positive impact on gross margin.
And within our industrial business we're looking for the product portfolio itself to improve as we look at the pipeline and the types of items we'll be launching again skewed towards the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one follow-up on your Indian business.
Can you give us more color as to what's happening? I know you once you bought the business you've had made some changes to the distribution model.
If I remember correctly I think you said sales were up 19% but volumes were down.
I was surprised by that.
I mean I'm aware that basmati rice costs are up but I was under the impression volumes for the industry are up significantly as well.
So can you just help us understand broader picture like what's going on in India what you perhaps learned since you bought that business? Well we've learned a lot and are continuing to learn every day in that market.
What I would say is I think our volumes may have been impacted a little bit by pricing which the industry is broadly taking.
And we feel pretty comfortable with our supply chain and distribution model that we'll be able to show long-term growth in that business.
But as always happens as we integrate a new acquisition we look at the business model.
There's a little bit of structural change going on in our business but we're pretty encouraged by long-term growth there.
And in our other joint ventures as well in India we've seen some pretty solid growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the expansion of Kamis into Russia.
Are you taking legacy Kamis products into Russia? Are you taking McCormick products into Russia now? What is the size of the overall opportunity in eastern Europe? And kind of which inning are you in at this point? Yes we're very early.
We have a -- we've continued to expand distribution in Russia primarily with the Kamis brand out of Poland and we're encouraged by what we're seeing.
And primarily what we're seeing right now is a growth in distribution.
Russia like a lot of more emerging economies especially in the spice business is largely a lower-cost bulk business.
But as the economy is growing there's a real interest in modern trade and in safe convenient packaged products and that's what we're selling.
So we're encouraged by what we're seeing.
Russia has been a very very fast-growing business in our category and we believe it's got great opportunity for us to continue to invest and expand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I take your $0.60 guidance for the second quarter and look at the seasonality between first half and second half of this year it seems to me that the year is most skewed towards the second half in at least 3 or 4 years.
Is that just coincidence or is your business changing to business that is really more biased towards the second half of the year? Is anything going on that we should be aware of? Well historically our business has skewed towards the end of the year and specifically in the fourth quarter so we do continue to see that.
I think the dynamics this year are a little bit of the comparisons to last year where we had a weaker end of year last year than we would have liked and have normally experienced that we expect to get back to more of a normal pattern.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I'm surprised no one has mentioned weather as being the primary reason for tough comparisons in quick serve restaurants in the first quarter.
And I wanted to know if you thought that the warm weather last year contributed to your strength in that segment last year and set up the tough comp this year.
And then conversely do you think you got a benefit in your consumer business in first quarter? And then secondly there's a very early Easter in the first quarter and I want to know if anything got pulled forward into first quarter for the consumer business from the early Easter.
And what does that mean for maybe a slower pace of growth in the second quarter? Yes.
Certainly last year's weather and we didn't rely too much on excuses then but last year's weather certainly impacted a number of our seasonal items early in the year.
And we think that did impact and this year is more of a normalized pattern.
So we think that could have happened.
As we look at our business to quick service restaurants we could point specifically to some new product wins which launched early last year that drove a lot of that business.
There may have been some underlying weather events that -- good weather that got people out so there may be some impact of that.
We've looked at the impact of early Easter in our U.S.
business and we think there may be some slight impact but not significant because it was later in the month and only a little bit more than a week earlier than last year.
So we think there may be some slight uptick but we're encouraged by what we've seen in our U.S.
consumer business.
We think it was good execution on our Super Bowl event that created a pretty good momentum as well as some more normal weather patterns.
Research Division</strong> Alan branded food sales for you in the U.S.
like your sales to branded food manufacturers you said was flat but you said you have a lot in the pipeline coming.
Can you talk a little bit about your customers there and how they're looking at innovation this year? My perception is that they're doing a lot more but then again I was surprised to see first quarter being flat.
I thought you'd be a little bit higher.
Yes I think what I've seen from the food manufacturers as you well know a lot of our customers were going through a number of structural changes last year as they changed -- as some of the companies were being split some were going through major restructuring and I think there was more of a focus on managing costs.
What I'm seeing right now is back to a focus on growth but a focus on fewer bigger initiatives in innovation.
So while I'm comfortable that we have a good pipeline and expect to see that benefit us as we talked about through the second half of the year there wasn't the kind of new product activity that we have historically seen early in the year from a number of our customers.
Now remember we're not necessarily a harbinger of what other -- all the companies are doing because if we are participating in a new product launch we'll benefit from it.
They may be still be launching stuff that we're not participating in.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify I guess is the discussion you had with Ken on the marketing spending.
Was this the plan to kind of have this shift between Q1 and Q2? And if not like -- I mean did you plan this coming into the fiscal year or did you respond based on the fact as you talked about inter-quarter here and see something that made you think you want to spend more in the second quarter? No it was a plan and a part of that promotion spend is product allowances to get new stuff on the shelf.
So we've had -- we typically in a number of our businesses don't pay major allowances.
But as we launched things like Big Easy Rice and some of the steak sauces there is a bit of that impact and it was a part of our plan to be able to do that.
I'm a big supporter of continuing to manage and increase our advertising spend and I think you'll see -- and you've seen it consistently we've more than doubled it in my tenure.
I think you'll continue to see that we'll invest behind the consumer.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just another follow-up.
Is it -- you have every reason to believe that one of your main customers in China will recover eventually and there's some reason to believe with the promotions going on there that you'll see recovery in the second half.
I mean how -- if that were not to materialize is it fair to say then that recovery on that particular customer that it would be difficult to make your guidance? I would not expect that to be the case.
I do know that there is a lot of focus on making sure that -- from our customers that consumers get back in the stores.
I'd also say that because of the impact of that business on our overall company that I would not expect that to be the reason that we'd miss.
I mean certainly it wouldn't help but we expect a recovery.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick things.
First with respect to gross margin in the first quarter.
I know you went through a lot of the puts and takes Gordon.
And maybe I don't appreciate the level of inflation that you did have in input costs in the first quarter just because usually if you get 5% of volume growth and 2% of pricing in your consumer business normally that drives a pretty awesome amount of sort of margin leverage in the quarter.
So I'm just trying to get a sense was there anything else in there that we should be aware of or am I just not appreciating the level of the skew of input costs to sort of the first part of the year versus the second? I wouldn't suggest there's anything else in there Andrew.
Obviously the $3 million up spend and some of the pricing and promotion impacts gross margin as well because that's going to be between the gross and net sales line.
But the other impact was clearly the industrial business which not only had the volume declines but as we mentioned in the call had a negative mix as well within that business due to again some of the timing of the items that we're expecting to occur later in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I had this right I think last quarter Alan you said the level of activity in terms of potential M&amp;A was maybe not as robust as you'd seen in prior years.
And I'm just curious if there's any update to that.
Like we're still in this very low interest rate environment obviously it won't be around forever and from a seller's perspective it's hard to imagine a time where it'd be more attractive to think about selling an asset.
Yes I mean we still have a pretty active pipeline.
And I don't know what's going to happen through the rest of the industry.
But I'd say we have an active pipeline that we feel pretty good about but we're not seeing a flurry of things coming to market at this point.
Now a lot of the stuff that we'd be looking at wouldn't necessarily come to market but we're not -- so I'd say from our standpoint we're seeing an active pipeline but we're not necessarily ready to pull the trigger on anything right now.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
It's been a long time since I've heard McCormick talk about higher allowances.
I realize that it doesn't sound like it's a big number but is that -- like how should I take that? I mean what does that mean -- like what's going on on the shelf that allowances are moving up? Well I think it was a combination of 2 things.
One is the kinds of new products that we launched in the first quarter and then secondly working on getting the right price promotions.
So it's -- again like we said it's not a big number.
It is -- it impacted what you'd see in net sales in the first quarter.
I would just differentiate that Eric compared to your historical memory which may be what you're referencing which was driven by a lot of competitive activity where this was a combination of what Alan just described.
This was new product placement and some planned promotions to drive volume in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So nowadays when you guys are referring to allowances you're really referring more to promotion as opposed to having to pay some retailer for shelf space for whatever 2 or 3 years which...
You're absolutely right.
That's absolutely right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second can you -- maybe kind of on an annual basis you referenced how big the emerging market is as a percentage of the total.
You've been putting more emphasis on that in the last couple of years.
How much was like let's say your emerging market business up? Do you look at it that way these days like in the quarter? We do on an annual basis not in the quarter.
Gordon is going to see if he can put his hands on the data.
But our emerging market business would be up and we expect it to be up substantially as we complete this deal with Wuhan in China.
But we don't necessarily look at it that way in the quarter.
Yes.
I'll have to circle back to you Eric.
But I mean clearly if you look -- think of the components on the consumer side it was up in strong-double digit for them so that's definitely a strong number.
Clearly as we talked about the China industrial side of things it was weaker.
So I'd have to see how that adds up in total for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the reason why I'm asking is because for the most part over the last 10-plus years you guys have executed very well on pretty much every acquisition except that one in Holland years ago.
But it doesn't sound like Kohinoor is doing that well and that gives me a little bit of pause.
I mean you know we follow this little company Amira and they're growing their India business by -- way in double digits in terms of volume.
And you're saying that your -- that business is -- that volume was impacted.
So I'm kind of -- is that -- like is this something that we need to watch out for? I mean I guess it's not that big but then again emerging markets is where you're putting a lot of capital.
Kohinoor specifically was up around 20% in sales in local currency.
But that's -- as we said before it's a combination of pricing significant double-digit pricing upwards of 20% and a small decline in volume which we feel compared well to some of the other competitors in India.
So that's kind of the dynamic we're facing in this fiscal year.
Yes I mean our understanding Eric is that there is sensitivity to price in the basmati rice market.
I know there's companies out there talking about their growth.
Some of that is distribution-driven.
Kohinoor already has a very strong distribution network at 400 000 points where I believe some of the other conversations you may be hearing are being driven by distribution.
So there is some expectation at the type of pricing that you'll see some basmati rice softness and that does not in any way color our view on the opportunity that India presents because we continue to use that brand name and that distribution system to launch new products.
And that was part of the original acquisition plan and that's continuing to be what we execute against.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Andrew's earlier question about the acquisition environment.
You commented that maybe from your perspective while the pipeline is still there there's not as many maybe opportunities.
And I wondered if you could address whether that reflected the quality of the assets that are potentially up for sale or whether it had to do more with the price that sellers are looking for at this point.
No I think it's more structurally what's happened in the industry as companies are kind of consolidating.
They went through a major portfolio shift last year and as companies are consolidating now they aren't necessarily paring down their portfolio.
So some of those established brands that we may expect to see just as a matter of routine aren't coming to market right now.
On the other hand a number of the kinds of assets that we look at are individually owned by entrepreneurs and so theirs are more -- at some point it will make sense for them to look for an exit strategy.
And we get to know them and we talk to them and make sure they know of our interest and that's what we would expect.
And we've talked about this in the past when we did the Kamis acquisition.
We've known that business and that owner for more than a decade and at a point it made sense for him.
That tends to be more what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then if I could just ask one follow-up on a different note.
And I apologize if I missed this but I was wondering if you could provide any details in terms of how your distribution or distribution gains are going with regard to some of the more alternative type channels like dollar stores and drugstores? Yes we've continued to grow distribution and brand offerings in those channels which is really strong.
Because what we've seen is those channels have migrated from very low priced not very high quality products in our category to a lot more branded offerings.
And so we're benefiting from that both in dollar the drug channel somewhat.
But we're still seeing opportunity for growth there.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One if I can get an update on your R&amp;D facility that opened I believe in January in China and how we should think about leveraging your now global R&amp;D capabilities.
And then my second question has to do with should we still expect a new product or a new flavor delivery item by the end of the year to be launched? First on the technical center we're very pleased with the expansion and the new innovation center in China where we have a space now where we can collaborate with customers.
We have a culinary center very much like the model that we have in Hunt Valley as we've done this in other parts of the world.
So we're pretty enthusiastic about that.
And we're operating -- we've made some organizational changes about 2 years ago to align our technical function our R&amp;D function under a Chief Science Officer with Hamed Faridi.
And so we're seeing the benefits of that and it's allowed us to move people from different markets and get some good overlap in experience and leverage our science from one area to the other.
So I think we're pleased with that.
We are -- the new technology that you're talking about in flavor we're expecting to be more -- to impact more 2014 and '15 than we are to impact 2013.
Just a couple quick data points Gordon.
What was the CCI cost savings during the quarter and what was the contribution from the partial recovery from that supplier that was actually a negative in the previous quarter? The CCI cost savings they occurred fairly evenly throughout the year.
So if you take $45 million and assume about 1/4 of that that's a good estimate as to what occurred in the quarter.
The partial recovery we're still in discussions so it's a bit of a sensitive timing issue as we would talk to all the various parties.
I would say it was not material in terms of how much we had.
It was not material to the quarter.
Not material but more to come? That depends on the discussions quite frankly.
Thanks for your questions everyone and participating in the call.
McCormick's leaders and employees all around the world are working to overcome the challenges of today's environment deliver increased sales and profit and build value for our shareholders.
Consumer interest in flavor continues to expand in both developed and emerging markets.
McCormick is meeting this demand with our growth initiatives increased global presence and our passion for flavor.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my appreciation to those that participated on today's call.
Through April 7 you may access a replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The conference ID number is 409379.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If you have any additional questions regarding the information today or anything else to discuss I welcome your call at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes this morning's conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm sure others will ask about the quick service situation but I'd like to ask about India.
You've built up your sales in China through acquisitions and organic growth pretty rapidly over the last few years so I'd like to hear a little bit more about the strategy and the priority level for India.
Could you give us a little bit of information about what percentage of sales are currently in India? How important this new restaurant chain customer might be and might there be other opportunities like that? Might we see further acquisitions in India? And just a little sense of the priority level of India versus China at this point.
Sure.
India is much more of a developing market for us than China is and we've been in China for more than 20 years.
And we're in China with both our Consumer and our Industrial business and so we've had time to build that out.
India right now we have mainly a Consumer business along with a couple of joint ventures that are more ingredient-based.
Our strategy is really similar because the Industrial business helps provide the scale for us to continue to grow and expand our Consumer business.
Although in this case we have an established Consumer business that will allow us the scale to start to build out an Industrial business.
India is still pretty small percentage of sales less than 5%.
And we are very bullish on the market although we recognize that it's going to be a long run long-term growth strategy for us.
Remember as we stated when we made the Kohinoor acquisition our strategy there is to evolve to a much more value-added portfolio and we've started to do that by introducing the Rice n Spice mixes and some of the 2-minute meals.
So what we want to do is put our value-added products through the distribution channel that we acquired when we bought Kohinoor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I would've thought that the organic growth rate in the Consumer business in EMEA might accelerate with the -- now that you have integrated Kamis and you can roll out the products into new regions.
And I think you alluded it to in the slides that Russia is actually a great growth driver for you right now yet the organic growth rate doesn't seem to budge too much.
Was I too optimistic? Or are there really too many offsetting factors? What's the outlook there that this can get better? No we have a multitude of markets there and our business has performed pretty well.
It's off of a very strong growth in the quarter last year and so we expect that we'll continue to grow.
We're pretty bullish on our business in Poland.
Our business in Russia is continuing to expand.
Our business in the U.K.
and France are a little more mature but we're still seeing volume growth in both those markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the organic growth rate of around 3% we should expect that for the rest of the year as well? Well obviously it's an environment that continues to feel economic pressure.
So it's an area that we're actually very pleased with the performance in certain of those markets given the tough conditions that they're operating in where you see volume declines in other categories and in fact our growth is outpacing those other categories.
So we're looking for positive volume growth because they continue to execute well.
We're leaning into those businesses in the back half of the year with new products and part of our advertising increases targeting Europe.
So we're looking for strong growth but we haven't been so far as to give a specific number.
But we're still expecting good growth out of that region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one housekeeping question.
Does your -- does the new guidance include any kind of currency headwind assumptions? It reflects whatever currency rates are -- we are at right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then let me ask differently.
Does the -- is the guidance reduction driven at least partially by currency as well? No.
It's primarily the 2 items we mentioned which is the impact of the transaction cost from Wuhan and the delayed recovery in the Industrial side of our business.
Research Division</strong> And forgive me if you mentioned this but other than rice could you update us on some of your more important inputs and maybe what you're seeing for the next couple of quarters in terms of total COGS inflation? Yes Ken this is a Gordon.
We don't see any news to the update that we provided at the beginning in the year and that included a 3% adverse impact or increase on material costs during this year with a lot of that occurring in the front part of the year and then moderating as we progress through the year.
That continues to be the same outlook that's baked into the guidance we've just provided you and that's also one of the factors we are including as we think about our gross profit margins and how they are improving quarter-to-quarter and stabilizing and recovering as we progress through the year.
Research Division</strong> And then second question we are seeing -- we've heard companies like Kroger and Safeway over the years talk about growing more in terms of natural and organic products.
But really they seem to be kind of putting their money where their mouth is for the first time and accelerating the growth of shelf space for those items right around now at least especially Kroger.
So first I'm curious if you're seeing that as well.
And second is there an opportunity for McCormick to benefit from that? Not that people necessarily in spices are looking for more natural and organic than they are in other shelf-stable categories.
But I'm just curious how you're thinking about kind of growing where the growth is so to speak in packaged food.
Sure.
And we have had organic spice items for more than 12 years and have continued to update that.
In spices it hasn't been as big a factor.
Consumers already assume and rightly so that spices are naturally grown that they're relatively safe and have some positive properties.
So there is certainly a segment of the market that likes it but it hasn't taken the kind of rapid growth that other packaged foods categories have had.
But certainly we respond pretty quickly to trends and as we see those develop our teams are pretty agile to make sure that we're hitting whatever the consumer is looking for.
Research Division</strong> We get the Knapp Track data and it seems to reflect pretty significant improvements in same-store trends -- same-store sales trends for the restaurant U.S.
sector -- the U.S.
restaurant sector.
So kind of the question is kind of why doesn't this translate into a better expectation for industrial volume trends for your U.S.
quick serve business? Kind of why not a better outlook starting in the third quarter? It depends on what they're selling and what they're driving growth in.
And if there is a large amount of new product innovation typically that serves our business pretty well.
If they're focusing on things like value menus it -- we'll have some sales but it's not the high-velocity higher-margin products that really drive our business.
And if they're focused on "out of main time" type products like breakfast we have less participation.
So there's certainly trends there that we see as positive.
We just don't see it recovering as much in our third quarter.
Research Division</strong> So if I maybe restate what you're saying is is that while maybe the macro for QSR is good it just didn't turn out to be good in the places that you needed to be good in? That's correct.
That's a pretty good way to state it.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just one follow-on on this whole point.
So because the idea was that maybe if you see a slowdown in your QSR maybe there would be a commensurate pickup in your much higher-profit margin business in Consumer such that you would see kind of neutral changes to your guidance.
Obviously that's not what happened.
Maybe can you explain that a little bit? When you gave this new guidance is there any pickup within the Consumer business? Because you guys just give the net numbers you give the amalgamated numbers.
When you look at the mix between Consumer and Industrial do you have a better profit outlook within Consumer itself? David this is Gordon.
I would say it's in line with our original expectations.
I'd say that given the opportunities that we see behind the growth in those businesses you've seen us increase some of our outlook as it relates to our A&amp;P spend and that's given the opportunities we see on a global scale behind innovation and brand marketing support.
So whatever improvement that we're seeing through CCI or the incremental volume like we're seeing in Consumer we're -- I'd say we're leaning into with some of the increase in the marketing spend.
So net-net we're about where we thought we would be on the Consumer side of things.
So hence we are adjusting down to reflect as I said earlier primarily the Wuhan and that delayed recovery in Industrial.
Research Division</strong> First is just overall sort of long-term question.
You have a lot of puts and takes which is also unusual for McCormick.
I mean do you really think judging your company's performance on underlying operating income growth is the right way to look at it? I mean a lot of good companies and I consider your company to be a very good company tend to offset headwinds whether they are pension related or QSR or things like that.
So I mean can you just help me understand from your perspective if you're really happy with sort of double-digit underlying earning -- operating income growth excluding all these puts and takes or whether you are somewhat disappointed that there are all these headwinds in your business that you weren't able to manage I guess over the last few months or year? We've got pieces of our business that we're pretty happy with the underlying performance and as we stated our Consumer business has pretty good momentum.
Our Industrial business is a little more challenged and we'd certainly like to be a little better there but the underlying profit growth is pretty good.
Obviously we'd like to be offsetting these things but we think about our business for the long term.
We're not necessarily managing year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter and so part of the reason that we're continuing to make investments in our marketing spending is to make sure we maintain that healthy business.
We view the challenges in Industrial to be temporary.
And so what we don't want to do is overreact to something that we think is going to turn around so that's philosophically how we think about it.
And what we're trying to do with the updated guidance is just be transparent with the best look that we have at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just on the India business we do cover a company that competes directly with you there.
And I was -- it was interesting that your view of the market is that I guess supply or the crop is short which is why prices are up.
And interestingly your demand seems to be affected negatively by higher prices which is not what we're hearing from the other company that we cover.
They're saying the crop is flat prices are up slightly but because they play across the value and the premium segment in basmati rice their demand continues to be up despite higher prices to the consumer.
So I'm just trying to bridge the gap there.
If you could provide any perspective on that that would be helpful.
I can't help you much with that particular competitor.
I think they're in the mode of building their distribution inside the country and are more focused as an export company.
But we've shared the dynamics that are impacting our business.
And again just to reiterate our objective in that business is to drive value-added products through that supply chain.
Certainly basmati rice is a big part of the scale there and important to us but our objective long term is to really move up the value chain.
LLC Research Division</strong> I first wanted to start with your comment in your release about distribution gains in the Consumer business.
Can you give me some examples? Predominantly Russia is what we were talking about with that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are we still expected to hear news about a new flavor platform launch at the end of this year calendar '13? We certainly expect so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then finally I was just curious about competitive landscape for snack flavoring offerings in the Industrial business.
Are you seeing the competition increase more people trying to get into that space? Can you just comment on that? Well certainly a lot of consumer companies are focused pretty heavily on driving snacks.
And as you probably know we focus on a couple of strategic customers.
We're continuing to grow and win business with our strategic customers and we don't necessarily participate heavily outside those strategic customers.
So certainly I don't know that the competitive landscape has changed.
There is certainly more focus by a lot of companies on driving their snack business.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I got on a little late so I apologize.
But Gordon was the $0.02 hit from Wuhan is that all you expect from that transaction this year? From a transaction cost standpoint that's correct.
There'll be integration costs in the remainder of the year that offset the incremental profitability but from a transaction cost that would be it.
Research Division</strong> And are those integration costs like inventory hits or...
It's really a number of things as we incorporate them into all of our McCormick system so it's everything from incorporating them into our IT systems to QA systems to financial systems.
It's broad-based as we go in and start to integrate them more closely to our operations.
U.S.
resources on the ground to help with the integration those kinds of things.
Right.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then switching over to Industrial.
I guess there have been 2 problems with McCormick from the -- I guess from Wall Street's perspective.
One is we have no visibility on your raw material basket which I think Ken asked about.
And then Industrial you don't really have at the end of the day a lot of control over the business.
And I recall there have been other times where you've said these new products are going to be introduced these new products are coming from your Industrial customers and they've either been delayed or canceled or what have you.
So why should we have confidence that the fiscal fourth quarter is going to rebound in Industrial where again there have been times where that just hasn't been the case? You're right.
We don't necessarily control the timing of new product introductions but we can see through planning what our customers are planning or expecting to do.
So -- and based on the visibility that we have right now we would expect a recovery.
Remember we had a fairly weak fourth quarter in 2012 so we do expect some recovery there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I guess Alan just more broadly on the Consumer side.
Again maybe I missed it with your intro comments but are you seeing the middle-income consumer get a bit stronger? It seems as if private label has been a bit weaker of late and so you have a pretty decent view into that given your private label operations.
Maybe you could just kind of touch on that.
What we're actually seeing which is an interesting dynamic in the data is some customers moving away from opening price point really deep discount products at least in our category and there's a bit of a trade-up happening from that opening price point to private label and then up to brand.
So we're seeing a little bit of an interesting dynamic.
It's been led by a couple of more value retailers that are -- have been able to trade up the consumer.
I can't speak as to how that's happening across other categories but we're certainly seeing the dynamic in our category which by the way we see as positive.
Research Division</strong> I guess I continue to be impressed by the performance of the Consumer division.
You have sales growing at a mid-single digit rate in Consumer and a lot of other packaged food companies are struggling to do 1% to 2%.
Obviously Industrial is going the other way.
But when you look at how the business is performing Alan is -- this kind of pace of growth do you think it's sustainable? And you have like a good pipeline all the way into 2014 so that when we get past the headwinds this year from pension expense and maybe Industrial kind of normalizes again I know it's a long way to look out but do you look at '14 as being another year where you can deliver that 9% to 11% EPS kind of algorithm? We certainly expect -- we expect that we're going to do that long term.
It's early to be giving guidance for '14 but we've got good momentum in our Consumer businesses around the world we're executing pretty well with really focused and targeted programs around big events and pulling in all parts of our portfolio from Zatarain’s to Lawry's to Simply Asia to our core stuff so we do feel pretty good about the momentum there.
And certainly we would expect that '14 should see some relief from the pension expense.
Research Division</strong> Alan a follow-up.
Like the back half for Consumer obviously things have to get even better I guess in order for the guidance to be deliverable because it's a double-digit operating income growth.
And I know that there's some very easy comparisons in the back half coming but do you feel like that's true that consumer has to get even better in order to deliver the back half? Or do they just have to keep delivering the kind of results that they're delivering right now? They have to keep on pace with where they're delivering now.
And remember we did have a few onetime issues in the fourth quarter last year.
We don't expect those to repeat.
We're pretty focused on execution in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So they just have to stay on plan? They have to stay on plan.
A couple of questions on China.
With the recent acquisition it sounds to me like there are a couple of benefits you're looking for not only the acquired business there but the opportunity to increasingly leverage the distribution system with traditional McCormick products through the acquired distribution system.
Is that a fair assumption? Absolutely.
The Wuhan business is stronger in the central parts of China.
Our core business has been stronger in the coastal region.
So what we plan to do is introduce more McCormick products through the central region but also take some of the Wuhan products into the coast.
Okay.
And also is it fair to assume that you're looking for this acquisition to be at least modestly accretive to fiscal '14 earnings per share? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> I also had a question about Wuhan.
It has really high market share in the regions where it operates already.
Can you comment on what the potential is long term for their market share? Well we expect that it'll grow for a couple of reasons.
One is as we expand it into other regions there is certainly an attractive market opportunity.
The products are core to how Chinese cook.
The second piece of it is we do expect -- even though there's a lot of discussion around a little bit of a slowdown in the growth rates in China there's still pretty robust growth.
So as the market grows we'll be able to take advantage of that but we do see expanding the distribution and taking advantage of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the question would be how much competition do they have in other regions in which they don't operate already? I mean...
Oh there's lots of competition in these products and there are the usual suspects that we compete with around the world.
So we feel pretty good about our prospects and being able to hold our own.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving to India you had the steep price increase for the rice.
Is there -- how much time will you give it to make sure that that was the right decision versus -- how do you weigh that versus the risk of losing market share? Well we're balancing market share and volume with cost.
And so we want to make sure that we maintain a -- we're not willing to necessarily lose a lot of market share so we'll be pretty focused.
The price gets reset every year based on what happens in the markets and how we acquire positions.
And so I would expect it to get reset as we go into next year.
I don't have any outlook on what the crop looks like but as we -- but the timing of that is towards the end of the year when we'll be starting to make procurement decisions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then closer to home you sound pretty positive on grilling but some other companies have been concerned about the weather affecting the various businesses on the grilling.
Have you -- what's -- can you comment on the weather? Do you -- how much -- how can you factor that into your outlook? We do and certainly we would have hoped to have seen a better Memorial Day weekend from a weather standpoint.
It was raining in the Northeast.
And I think what you're seeing is the impact of some of that.
But we have pretty good momentum already built off cycle so we're -- we believe based on growing household penetration and continuing to introduce new products in grilling we see it as pretty robust.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 quick questions.
First was you had indicated that you would see a little pickup in QSR sales in Q3.
So my question just is are you seeing just a pushout of those product introductions or promotions you were expecting? Is that what's negatively affecting the third quarter? It's a little bit of that and it's just a little bit of the products that we're supplying not moving as quickly and recovering as fast as we would've expected.
So it's a little bit of product innovation and a little bit of where the customers are focused on driving growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question I have was just in relation to I think it's asked before by Rob on the fourth quarter.
Is there any -- I know you've got an easy comp in the Industrial division is there anything unique to the Consumer business in the fourth quarter that should make its profits be that much stronger? Well last year we had some supply chain issues largely related to Hurricane Sandy.
So we feel like our business was somewhat suppressed in -- our sales were suppressed.
Our consumption actually was pretty good through the fourth quarter.
That's why we feel more confident that we should deliver.
Thanks for your questions and for participating on today's call.
Through our growth initiatives CCI programs and the efforts of McCormick employees around the world we're overcoming a number of headwinds in 2013 and delivering solid sales and profit growth.
Our passion for flavor broad portfolio and expanding global presence have us well positioned to meet consumer demand for flavor in both developed and emerging markets.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my thanks to those who participated on the call.
Through July 11 you can access a replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853 and the conference ID number for that is 414507.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding the information I can be reached at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes this morning's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from David Driscoll with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One on the cost outlook the inflation outlook and one on that comment about the 2014 tax and retirement costs.
On the cost outlook the -- I believe what you wrote there was in 2014 you're looking for low single-digit material cost increases.
I guess I just want to get your impressions that if we have deflation in the grain markets potentially affecting much of the grocery store how do you see your business in 2014 in comparison to what might be many other categories in fact seeing price declines while you guys are actually having to take pricing? So that's the first one.
Yes we -- our commodities certainly are different.
Most of our products are grown outside the U.S.
in areas that are within a few degrees in the equator.
And there's a lot of different dynamics that impact that.
Weather like monsoons in India can impact some of the -- some of our costs.
We're certainly not expecting cost declines across our core spice and seasonings ingredients.
We may see some and -- that impact more of our industrial business in things like grains but we're going to be a little counter to what you may be seeing in some of the other commodities.
I'll let Gordon take the other part of the question.
Research Division</strong> Second question was just on 2014 tax and retirement costs.
It seems like from the comments both from the lump sum payment like I'm struggling to understand why that's not favorable to the retirement cost picture going forward in 2014.
And the tax rate it doesn't seem like it should be moving up much.
So when you make this comment that it's less of a headwind that still suggests that it is a headwind.
It's just less of a headwind.
But kind of why is it? It doesn't seem like it perhaps should be.
Yes David just to focus first on the retirement going forward our -- what we're saying when we say less of a headwind is really we're speaking to the fact that this year's increase in the operating income expense impact of that was a function of the interest rate environment primarily where rates declined at end of last year when we established our valuation.
Our expectation given the rate environment is certainly that rates -- and as well as everyone knows this on the call rates shouldn't decline any further.
So at a minimum we would expect that expense not to go up like it did this year.
And then if it's a favorability it will purely a function of what the rate environment is at November 30 when we establish the valuation date.
And to your point on tax tax rate again the favorable rate that we experienced in 2012 was primarily a function of a transaction we did which was cash repatriation which we did not duplicate this year and do not anticipate a similar transaction at this stage as we look into 2014.
So again we're not looking for any unfavorable comparison related to the tax rate as we head into 2014 as we had experienced in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Alan if I heard you correctly and I may not have I thought you said -- you mentioned some success in reducing opening price points at certain retailers and that this is encouraging consumers to trade up to private label or branded alternatives.
Again I may not have heard that right but it's not often that a company talks about trading consumers up to private label.
So maybe you can add some color there.
Yes sure.
What -- opening price point in the spice business and has been there for a long time for these products.
And we have a number of these brands like Fifth Seasons and Spice Classics and a couple of other control brands that would show up actually in our branded sales that sell between $0.50 and $1.
And a number -- some retailers some major retailers have reduced their reliance on those.
And what's happening is that's improving the category sales and profits for the retailer.
A lot of those are shifting into private label but that's a good thing for both us and them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at the change in your consumer performance in the Americas from the beginning of the quarter to the end and I know you've touched on this a little bit but can you just again add some color as to what you maybe think some of the biggest drivers were of that improvement...
I never like to use weather as an excuse but the early part of June it was a fairly atypical weather for the early part of the summer.
I think that did impact it we saw -- and the reason I can say that with some confidence is because of the impact on grilling items and -- which is a big part of our summer sales in the U.S.
So I think there was something going on there and we've seen it from the releases by retailers and other food manufacturers that the beginning of summer was weaker than I think they expected.
We're encouraged by what we've seen later in the summer and what we're seeing early in the fall.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could tell us what kind of reaction you've gotten to 3% price increase.
And what kind of marketing you're doing to -- marketing promotion you're doing in relation to that? Yes price increases are never easy.
And as David mentioned in the first part of the call we're a little counter to what some other companies are seeing because our products are going up and some are seeing some commodity health.
By and large and we have a long history of this we have a good story.
We are explaining the reason for the price increase and we're moving it through.
From a consumer standpoint we are certainly continuing our strong advertising program.
We are promoting to make sure that we get to the right price point at the right time so that we maintain consumption as we move it.
3% is pretty modest as this is I think one of the lower price increases we've had in the last 5 or 6 years.
LLC Research Division</strong> And shifting to a long-term perspective I know you're not giving guidance on '14 and you're still using the Euromonitor 5-year outlook but is there any change in how you look at your business long-term based on what's going on around the world? Well certainly we believe long term that we're well positioned.
There is -- there is some lumpiness in different markets that we are adapting to and we continue to do that but we're -- we believe that long term we're in a great business we are seeing category growth rates that are strong.
Over time we're seeing the world's consumers continue to develop a level of affluence which means they improve their food supply.
And we think that's positive.
We're seeing more move in most markets to modern trade.
We think that's all positive.
Certainly we believe we're well-positioned.
And we'll adapt our business to make sure that we can manage through whatever situation that we have.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And regarding Wuhan you said you're ahead of plan.
Are you -- do you think that's because you had to wait so long to implement this and you had a long-term to -- a long time to evaluate what was -- and plan what you wanted to do there? Yes we had a very strong integration plan and it's been well executed.
And so I think that's a -- that is certainly a piece of it.
I want to give the team on the ground a lot of credit for what they've done to bring it in.
But we given the length of time between the announcement and the actual close we did have time to put together good plans.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
I wanted to start first with the industrial division and just to get a better sense of kind of what's going on in that division.
We have seen an improvement in Asia still some weakness in the U.S.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is do you have any more visibility into the pipeline of products your restaurant customers are implementing do you foresee an improvement say into Q4 and into early 2014? In terms of specific restaurant customers about half of our business is foodservice distributors and the other half are quick service.
We're seeing actually more optimism in the branded food service business than we are in the QSR.
From our standpoint but remember this isn't -- you shouldn't read that we're making a comment on the entire consumption for QSR just the products that we supply.
We tend to supply more core menu type items.
And as they are introducing breakfast for instance that's not necessarily an area that we play in.
We're encouraged that we're seeing some new product activity but we're not seeing enough to offset some weakness in the core items.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so do you have visibility to those improving say later in the quarter and early into next year? Is there any kind of a little positive outlook as we look ahead? Yes we think over the next few quarters we're going to see some continued improvement but we've expected to see that for -- as we've have headed in the second half of the year.
We think fourth quarter will be better certainly than we've seen in the first 3 quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one -- if I could ask one on the consumer division.
You had a weak start to the quarter it sounds like from a demand standpoint.
So I'm just curious was that related to I guess what you were talking about earlier about some of the weather weakness earlier in the quarter? And then just to understand as you ship more product ahead to the degree at which that helps sales this quarter it sounds like you got more product out there more in the slate out there.
Do you think that could help fourth quarter sales then as well for the consumer division? Yes we think that will help fourth quarter consumption.
The earlier we get it up the more likely we are to move it through.
And last year we saw consumption -- even with everything that happened we saw consumption stay pretty steady.
But our factory sales were a little more lumpy because of certain internal events.
But I think we're feeling pretty good at this point as to where we are in fourth quarter.
We've got a good advertising program.
We've got strong displays out on the floor.
So we're encouraged and optimistic about fourth quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the U.K.
You mentioned weak retailer sales over there.
So I'd like to get a bit of a sense of whether that's likely to persist and what's causing that over there? The U.K.
has been a little bit weaker.
The question on what's driving that weakness is probably a little tougher.
The U.K.
is as you know a difficult market.
The retailers are largely consolidated.
We saw just relatively flat sales in the U.K.
in the quarter.
We again we have a good line of product activity.
We have advertising in place and so we're trying to make sure that we can keep our products relevant to the consumer.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a quick follow-up the Mexico JV relocation when will that be completed? And when can we expect a rebound in performance over there? And I'll pass it on.
Yes the performance of our business -- the underlying performance of our business in Mexico has been pretty good.
We'll finish the charges in the fourth quarter as we relocate from an older plant to a new plant where we expect higher productivity.
So we should see the impact of that as we go in through next year.
Research Division</strong> Gordon in the last few quarters you've made a good effort of reducing inventories.
You seem to have had inventory growth this quarter.
What's your view on inventory right now and your ability to reduce that going forward? Well I think the 2 factors impacting it this quarter the vast majority of that increase year-over-year relates to the Wuhan acquisition probably -- not probably 70% of that increase year-over-year is primarily the fact that we now have inventory associated with that acquisition.
We did have also some increases as we prepare for the fourth quarter this year making sure that we're ready for great execution around our products and having that inventory sufficient to drive through with the programs that we have in place.
I'd say on a go-forward basis it is something that we continue to have a lot of programs around and we have lots of energy around our sales and operation planning process.
You've heard us talk greatly about systems improvements which we have done and we're leveraging globally.
So if we look at our 3-year forward plans we continue to believe that that's an area we can get efficiencies and continue to get a benefit in our cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe I missed this in your prepared remarks but you're obviously now doing price increases in the U.S.
consumer business.
Yet in the third quarter price was more or less flat if not down in the U.S.
consumer business.
How do I need to look at that? Why was the pricing going in the opposite direction of what I would have expected? We haven't taken pricing in a couple of years it's been 2 years.
And so what we introduced was a 3% price which will be effective in the fourth quarter.
So you would not have seen pricing impact in the third quarter at all.
Research Division</strong> But was there an increase in promotions in the U.S.? For example I mean last quarter price grew at a much healthier rate.
There may have been some promotional activity.
Our -- Gordon can you help me with that? Yes I mean really we haven't seen a great deal of price realization in the U.S.
I mean the only price that we've taken was a minor one that was in the third quarter of last year related to pepper so you probably saw a slight benefit.
But we've anniversary-ed that now as we've come into this third quarter.
So as we go into Q4 as Alan said the latest price increase really is not executed until partway through the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then last question I have for you was the rice business in India you said it was a reaction to an increase in rice cost.
If the Indian consumer other than the price increase how is the Indian consumer doing right now? Is that a healthy market for you other than that? I wouldn't say it's a healthy market.
There's a lot of volatility in India and you've seen that with currency changes.
So we've got some internal things specific to our business that we're working through and that's around making sure that we've got a competitive position.
But I wouldn't say that the Indian consumer at this point is a robust consumer.
If you sort of look at the Americas and keeping in my how people talked about this bifurcated recovery can you comment on the demand trends both in consumer and industrial segments? What you're seeing by channel and type of restaurant and retailer? Yes we're seeing -- and it is I think bifurcated.
I think there are certain segments that are doing well.
We're seeing in most of our markets more robust an interest in high-end gourmet-type products.
We did a really good job with a higher-end gourmet product in France.
We're seeing that and some results in the U.S.
as well.
And we're seeing from retailers like we talked about eliminating some of the opening price points they're still a value consumer but we're able to serve them a little bit better with better quality products.
I do think it is tough.
I think consumers are not feeling very robust.
And I think it's a tough market.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One if you think about top line growth for the next 12 to 18 months what do you see as the key levers to driving that growth? Is it pricing? Innovation? Mix? Can you help me as to how to think about what drives top line? Yes I'll start it and Gordon if you want to add anything please do.
Certainly we'll see some impact of pricing that we'll experience most of the next year.
We have a pretty good pipeline of new products that we think will help drive growth.
We're starting to shift our industrial business into more higher-value flavor-type products as we have some new technology coming online.
So we kind of see some of that coming.
Gordon do you want to add anything to that? Yes I'd emphasize back to our long-term algorithm and the elements of that where we talk about the 4% to 6%.
Now don't take this yet as guidance for 2014 but certainly if you break that down 1/3 of that is in the base business around strong execution and the strong category trends 1/3 of that through the innovation and 1/3 of that through acquisitions which have occurred on average over time.
So if you look into next year we have certain elements of all of that with a little bit of price.
So that's the way I would be thinking about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then second in the fourth quarter for some reason I think you all are going to launch a new flavor platform a product platform.
Is that still on track? Can you give me any update on that? It will be commercialized and we're in the process of commercializing it.
It really won't impact fourth quarter very much.
It will be probably be more through next year as we start to get it completely online.
LLC Research Division</strong> But we should still learn about it in Q4.
As expected? Yes.
This is actually Rachel Nabatian in for Rob Moskow.
So by our math given that $30 million was pulled forward in 3Q it seems like you need a really big 4Q for consumer especially since industrial is expected to be weaker than our prior expectations.
Now to be fair you did say that it's an easier comp and you have programs in place to drive sales.
But even so it still seems like you need a rather large sales increase.
So I guess we just wanted to know what gives you the confidence that you're going to be able to hit your sales target? Well just -- you pointed out all the accurate elements.
We are looking at a more favorable comp in Q4 as it relates to both the U.S.
consumer business and the global industrial business.
When you net the 2 elements of the pull-ahead and the issues that we experienced last year in the Americas on the consumer side we're probably up against a net headwind of about 2% to 3%.
So your question obviously is what gives us the confidence.
Well we're starting in a good place with the merchandising displays up there and we're starting in a good place with the consumption trends that we're seeing.
And behind all that we have very very strong programs targeted in every month in advertising around as you heard us talk about the mega events and for holiday cooking.
So ultimately it's going to be the execution and the pull-through that we're gearing up.
You heard us talk about $10 million of incremental spend to drive those sales.
So we're looking for sales recovery in that Q4.
Combining that with what we would see as an improving gross profit trend relative to what we've seen prior year in the first 3 quarters that's all the elements of our thinking in our guidance.
LLC</strong> I guess just to try to summarize the strategy around the pricing increase a little bit.
It's basically what you're saying is that input costs you're probably expecting it to be still low single-digits into fiscal '14.
And because of that you're taking the 3% price and that's it? Because I guess what's still a bit counterintuitive is if we look at the global forecast despite growth either in the U.S.
or on a global basis when you look at your trends I mean you have been losing share and that share has been lost by volume.
So I'm just trying to get an idea of like how to match the price increase with continued volume share loss because it would seem like as you said as we go into next year most of the growth I would think would be coming from price at least in the Americas which could mean that you could continue to lose volume.
So if you could just comment on that please? Yes we believe we've got the programs that will help us to continue to drive and increase volume.
And our growth is going to be based a little bit on price pricing is a big part of our algorithm.
We only use price to offset commodity costs and we have seen that commodity cost increases.
Part of what you've seen in the growth in private label has been price.
Our private label customers and our retail customers whether we supply the private label or not have been taking price.
So I think you're seeing some of that in the dollar growth from private label as well.
So we're in an environment and we've been very responsible on price where we believe that this is appropriate.
We have not taken pricing in a couple of years.
It was time to do that because our costs have continued to accelerate.
But we take our responsibility in terms of how we price we take a lot of responsibility and accountability for that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
On the marketing side it looks like kind of as the year has progressed the plan is to increase marketing and it's supposed to be up $13 million for the year.
I think original guidance it was supposed to be up $15 million.
So you're technically spending less than you originally expected even though $10 million of it almost all of it is coming in Q4.
So can you just comment on why -- I mean I know it's only $2 million which is -- off of $15 million but could you just comment why it would come in at a little bit lower? And why it is so Q4-loaded even with the volume pressure that we saw in Q3? We do in our U.S.
business about 40% of our sales in the fourth quarter.
So it would be back-loaded.
The highest ROI that we get in our marketing programs are geared towards the Thanksgiving and holiday -- and Christmas periods.
So it just makes sense that that's where the bulk of that would be and it supports the programs and the display activities that we have out there.
We are leaning into our business.
We recognize that we have had some challenges.
We've typically had pretty good volume growth.
We want to continue that and that's why we are leaning in with our marketing programs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question.
Alan you know it's -- I've been hearing about Wal-Mart reducing inventories across many categories.
And so I guess in relationship to the fourth quarter and your easier comps but hopes for some improvement kind of how does -- how do lower inventories at retail -- by the retailers figure into your calculations of improvement? Yes we -- I'll say the big impact on the sell-in in the third quarter were specific large customers who took their orders at end of August instead of at the beginning of September.
So that would say that they are believing at least in this category that there's some reason to get those displays up early and we've seen them and they're up.
So that we think is positive.
Ultimately what happens is the consumer is going to have to pull it through which is why we have the marketing programs that we do.
So we're banking on our sales -- our factory sales and our consumption relatively matching up.
We haven't factored in that we think there's going to be a large de-loading by the retailers at the end of the year.
Typically we don't see that in our category in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to kind of follow on to that.
It seems like over the last few years really and I've heard this from some investors questions about how shipments versus consumption have moved around.
I think last year you may have had some movements from the fourth into the first quarter and now you've had third versus fourth.
And so as the category manager and clear share leader why don't -- why doesn't the company have seemingly like better or maybe more consistent kind of shipments as opposed to what seems kind of almost like a high low from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year? I think what happens and what's happened in more recent periods is customers have been buying a lot closer to consumption.
And in their stores they tell us their customers the consumer is buying on a different pattern.
They're buying closer to when they get paid.
And so they're trying to manage their levels of inventory closer to when they're going to have needs.
When they miss it and they have too much inventory they immediately react to that.
When they have not enough inventory which is what happened in fourth quarter last year they also react to that.
So I think there's -- I think it's a little bit less certainty around how the consumers purchase patterns are and a focus by everybody on making sure that they're maximizing cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question.
Your stock has underperformed the group pretty significantly this year maybe anticipating some of what we're talking about today.
You're saying that fiscal '14 should be a pretty strong year.
Yet it sounds like and it's not a huge business but it sounds like Kohinoor is missing your targets and Wuhan is not going to add to earnings next year if my memory is correct.
So I guess what else can you -- you talked about the top line a little bit for '14 but what should -- and you talked about some of the non-operating things.
What should help? Is like CCI savings maybe going to be accelerated? Or is there -- you're just counting on the mix shift getting better to help the business? Because it sounds like input cost will continue to be a bit of a headwind.
Yes without getting into giving guidance for next year we're still putting our budgets together.
But the key things that we think will help to impact one is recovery in our U.S.
industrial business and in China as well.
Wuhan will add about $0.03 the next year.
We do expect to be in a better position in India next year so that is certainly a piece of it.
We've talked about the impact on pension cost which we're not forecasting at this point but we believe shouldn't be the headwind that they've been this year.
And then underlying -- and none of that stuff actually matters except the core performance of our business.
And we believe that we will continue to show the kind of resilience that we have with good advertising programs good new product introductions and execution on our -- in our core business.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to -- I'm a little still confused on how this quarter turned out relative to expectations? Obviously lower guidance.
The numbers came in on the sales and gross profit and gross margins are much below what we had but we could have been way off.
So how did the quarterly sales numbers come in relative to your expectation? And then I have a few follow-ups on that.
Well as we try to highlight in the call Akshay that from the U.S.
consumer side the underlying core was not as strong as what we would have liked based on the slow start to the third quarter.
However relative to our expectation on the holiday program that came in a bit stronger.
So net-net 9% operating income growth on the consumer side is pretty strong and I'd say primarily close to our expectation although we would have liked to have seen stronger performance in areas that have been doing quite well year-to-date.
Europe is -- was flattish in consumer.
And although the team is doing a great job there that had been up until that point performing at a slightly better rate than that.
And certainly on the industrial side we would have -- we expected a weaker performance but we would have liked to have seen even stronger performance out of the industrial side relative to our expectations.
So basically that weakness in those areas were offset by the tax rate.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just focusing on the base consumer performance on sales what was it that came -- I mean is it the consumer switching to private label? Was that something that was unexpected? Or was there something else to it? I mean I'm just trying to gauge what might happen in the fourth quarter? So I'm trying to understand whether it was the consumer behavior that was different than what you expected? Was it your execution in the stores? Just if you could give some color on that that would be helpful.
No it was weak consumption at the beginning of the quarter as we talked about a fairly weak offtake for Memorial Day.
And I think you've heard that and consistent with a number of other companies.
And we've seen some improvement as we have gone into the later part of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And so what -- what do you think is underlying sort of why is that happening? Why is the consumer...
Why is the consumer getting better? Research Division</strong> Well no.
First of all what changed early on in the quarter in your opinion from the consumer standpoint that caused them to be more cautious? And then what's changed since then that it's getting better through the quarter? I think one was a weak Memorial Day a rainy Memorial Day up and down the East Coast impacted the sales of grilling products and related categories.
I think if you look at some of the related categories around that you'll see that.
And what we've seen with improvement I think is that the consumers are starting to come back and we've seen that.
And I don't want to put too much stock into to the 4-week IRI or Nielsen data but we've seen continued improvement off the weakness from early in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just 1 last one on India.
You mentioned next year you expect improvement there.
Is that distribution-driven? Are you changing price points? Is it new products? Can you just help me understand that? Well we expect to see some impact from the new product introductions that we introduced this year.
We think that will be a positive but we also expect that we should see -- and we know the rice harvest is right now we expect to be in a better position in terms of our rice productions for next year.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the piece of the industrial business with sales to other food manufacturers? It doesn't seem like that was so much the issue in the quarter as you discussed.
It was more of the QSR side.
But what we've heard obviously from at least more recently a lot of the food manufacturers out there trends in their businesses haven't been particularly robust on the volume side So I'm just trying to get a sense of if you expect obviously industrial to get better as we go into '14 is there a risk that the piece that goes towards other food manufacturers maybe is at risk a little bit just given what we've heard from so many of the other food manufacturers? First question.
Yes we think that is at some level of risk.
Our focus in the industrial sales to other food manufacturers tends to be heavily in the snack area.
And that has seemed to continue to be fairly robust whether it's crackers or chips or those sorts of things that part of the business has been fairly robust and we still see a lot of new product activity.
So we're feeling a little more encouraged with that.
I think as we saw at your conference Andrew there are certain customers that are pretty focused on productivity and cost.
And if they aren't introducing new products that would -- that could impact our business.
Research Division</strong> I think the last price increase that you mentioned was in 2011.
And I think that was the first time you had taken pricing maybe ever heading into your key fourth quarter or the seasonal fourth quarter.
And I remember at that time that was -- you had to make sure that went smoothly and was a little bit of a risk.
From my recollection it went very smoothly.
I don't think there were any issues around pricing into the big holiday quarter.
So if you can just remind me if that was the case and what were some of the learnings there and did that help you obviously with the confidence going into this fourth quarter with the pricing? Yes it had been a long time since we had taken an increase heading into the fourth quarter.
And that one was pretty much commodity-driven.
And it did give us the confidence that we can execute it and that we can maintain our promotional plans as we do that.
So -- and our view was that this was a better time to do this given where our markets are and where our customers are to be able to get it executed.
And we're finding -- certainly it's not easy but we're finding that we're executing it.
I want to thank you for your questions and for participating in the call.
Our passion for flavor our broad portfolio and our expanding global presence have led to a decade of strong performance at McCormick and we believe we are well-positioned for the future.
Through our growth initiatives CCI program and the efforts of our employees around the world we expect to deliver solid sales and profit growth in 2013 and are committed to delivering on our long-term financial objectives.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my thanks to those who participated in today's call.
We ran a bit long so thanks for your interest and sticking with us.
Through October 3 a replay of the call can be accessed by dialing (855) 859-2056 and the conference ID number is 34927804.
You can also listen to the replay on our website later today.
If anyone has questions regarding today's information we can be reached at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes this morning's conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Dawn and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the McCormick Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Announcement Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Joyce Brooks you may begin your conference.
Good morning.
This is Joyce Brooks McCormick's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you for joining today's call for a discussion of the company's fourth quarter financial results and 2014 financial outlook.
We've posted a set of slides to accompany the call at our website ir.mccormick.com.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder the conference is being recorded.
With me on the call are Alan Wilson Chairman President and CEO; and Gordon Stetz Executive Vice President and CFO.
During our remarks we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
These include adjusted operating income and adjusted earnings per share that exclude the impact of special charges and a loss on voluntary pension settlements.
A reconciliation to the GAAP results is included in this morning's press release as well as the slides that accompany this call.
Please note that today's presentation contains projections and other forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other factors.
As seen on Slide 2 our forward-looking statement also provides information on risk factors that could affect our financial results.
It's now my pleasure to turn it over to Alan.
Thanks Joyce.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
At McCormick we made important progress during our 2013 in our growth strategy.
We achieved solid sales growth in a number of our key markets expanded our business in China with our first acquisition in that market delivered significant cost savings with our CCI program and generated $465 million of cash flow returning a record $357 million of this cash to our shareholders.
While consumers in many developed and emerging markets remain under pressure the growth of our core categories remains healthy.
Slide 5 shows the latest 52-week category increase for spice and seasonings in our top markets.
And Slide 6 shows the latest Euromonitor data that projects a robust pace of growth through 2018 not only for spices and seasonings but across a number of flavor categories.
Consumer demand is on the rise in pursuit of new flavors ethnic cuisines or spices and herbs as a replacement for sugar salt and fat.
These are just some of the trends driving this growth.
As a global leader in flavor McCormick is well positioned to meet this demand.
We have leading category shares that span a broad range of flavors and all price points from premium to private label.
Our flavors reach consumers at all eating occasions: meals at home eating out or grabbing a snack.
And through acquisitions and regional expansion of our industrial business we are increasing our geographic presence.
Our fourth quarter sales performance reflected these positive trends in most parts of our business but did not meet our expectations for the U.S.
consumer business.
As a result for the total the company our rate of sales growth was below our expectations in the outlook that we shared with you in our September earnings call.
And while we exceeded the 7% adjusted profit growth guidance that we provided on that call this result included the benefit of a lower-than-expected tax rate.
I'm going to comment on the strong performance in our international consumer businesses go a bit more in-depth on the results and actions underway for our U.S.
consumer business and then review the strong fourth quarter finish in our industrial business.
Fourth quarter sales growth for the consumer business was generally in line with our plans in markets outside the U.S.
While difficult economic conditions persist across much of Europe we continued to grow our sales in this region.
We introduced recipe mixes into France and Poland and launched new products for value-minded consumers as well as premium items for more involved and affluent cooks.
Increased brand marketing support is directed towards supporting these launches.
In the Asia/Pacific region the latest sales and profit for Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments WAPC continued to exceed our expectations.
Our base business in China continued to grow at a strong double-digit rate with expanded distribution greater advertising and new products.
In the Americas we grew sales in Canada with very successful innovation that included grilling sauces and marinades gluten-free gravies new honey packaging and a line of authentic Asian products.
In the U.S.
consumer business we grew sales at a low single-digit increase for the full year led by higher volume and product mix.
However after achieving a strong mid-single-digit sales increase in the first half of 2013 our rate of growth slowed with U.S.
consumer business sales in the second half about even with the year-ago period.
Within the second half we had a shift in sales between the third and fourth quarters which as previously discussed related to greater retailer purchases as part of our holiday display program and in advance of a pricing action.
Adjusting for this impact third quarter U.S.
consumer business sales declined at a mid-single-digit rate and the fourth quarter rose at a low single-digit rate.
While this rate of sales growth from the latter part of 2013 was better than some in the food industry it was outpaced by a robust 5% 12-week retail category increase in spice and seasonings our largest category.
Clearly consumer demand for flavor remains strong.
Our issue for the past 2 quarters has been one of share gains by private label and some smaller competitors.
To address this competitive activity we put in place the following actions to regain our momentum.
First we're significantly increasing our brand marketing support particularly during critical seasonal events when McCormick's brands index above private label and competition.
We want to use our leading share of voice to differentiate and drive growth of our core products including the use of digital marketing where we're achieving our highest ROIs.
Second we're accelerating innovation.
We have some winning concepts in our international markets and are developing plans to introduce these in the U.S.
such as our line of gluten-free gravy mixes that are doing extremely well in Canada.
And third we're identifying ways to improve our agility in the marketplace.
We want to more aggressively gain share by rapidly addressing competitive challenges and identifying and pursuing growth opportunities.
We believe that these actions will be effective in driving growth of our core business and I've asked Lawrence Kurzius who leads our Global Consumer Business to work directly with our U.S.
consumer business team on these initiatives.
During his time in this business in 2005 and 2006 we increased sales and profit market share with initiatives behind innovation and brand marketing as well as new gravity-feed merchandising equipment.
This was followed by his leadership of our international businesses including successful expansion in emerging markets.
Most recently Lawrence has spearheaded our Global Consumer Business strategy development and growth.
With his direct leadership the dedicated efforts of our U.S.
consumer business team and increased investment in brand marketing and innovation I look forward to reporting to you on our progress in the upcoming quarters.
Turning to our industrial business.
Our fourth quarter results were a strong finish to the year.
Our adjusted operating income result was particularly strong with a $13 million increase up more than 50% from the year-ago period.
As a percent of sales adjusted operating income margin was nearly 9% largely as a result of more favorable business mix and CCI cost savings.
In the Americas higher sales of snack seasonings and other flavors for food manufacturers were offset by continued weakness in demand from quick service restaurants.
However sales in our EMEA region remain strong with product innovation and share gains particularly with quick service restaurants.
And while we had an easy comparison to the year-ago period we've had sequential improvement in industrial sales in the Asia/Pacific region and in particular China.
While we expect weak demand from quick service restaurants in the U.S.
to extend into the first part of 2014 we are encouraged by our new product pipeline.
Across our entire industrial business we expect a better performance in 2014 than in 2013.
Turning to Slide 11 and looking back on the past year I want to recognize our more than 10 000 employees around the world for their engagement at McCormick and contributions to our success.
Here are some of the major achievements in 2013 that demonstrate the spirit of teamwork and high performance throughout the company.
Starting with innovation.
We developed and launched more than 250 new branded products including a number of successful innovation platforms that we're taking to other markets around the world such as grilling items and recipe mixes.
In our industrial business customers continue to turn to McCormick to improve the healthy attributes of their products including more simple ingredients.
In 2013 about 1/3 of our industrial new product briefs had some type of wellness aspect.
Across both segments sales of new products launched in the past 3 years accounted for 9% of our fiscal year sales.
We continue to raise our game in brand marketing.
Our marketing support exceeded $200 million for the first time in 2013.
It was up 64% in the past 5 years.
We continue to achieve returns on this spending that are ahead of food industry averages.
As part of this 2013 brand marketing digital marketing was more than double the amount spent just 2 years ago in 2011.
Among our accomplishments in this area was a 94% increase in U.S.
recipe views and in EMEA a 24% increase in Web traffic.
On the acquisition front we completed and effectively integrated our first acquisition in China Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments.
This business expanded our product breadth and regional presence in China and increases our sales there by 60%.
To date the financial performance of WAPC both sales and profits is ahead of plan.
With this acquisition and the pace of growth in our existing businesses our sales in emerging markets now account for 15% of total company sales a substantial increase from 10% just 2 years ago.
We continue to fuel these investments with our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement program CCI.
In 2013 cost savings from CCI reached $63 million well above our initial projection of at least $45 million for the year.
We also made progress in other important areas such as safety governance and community involvement.
With the publication of our CSR review in mid-2013 we shared ambitious goals for 2018 in a number of areas including our environmental impact.
Our progress toward these goals through 2013 is shown on Slide 12.
Our business generates significant cash flow.
As indicated at the beginning of my remarks we had record cash flow from operations and cash return to shareholders.
During the fourth quarter we completed a $400 million share repurchase authorization and began to repurchase shares under our new authorization.
In November McCormick's board approved a 28th consecutive annual dividend increase.
Since 2006 we've doubled our quarterly dividend.
These are just a few highlights and we look forward to going more in-depth on progress with our growth initiatives during our CAGNY presentation on February 19.
Looking ahead to 2014 I showed you the projections for flavor including our core business with spice and seasonings.
The outlook is for strong growth.
We're heading into 2014 with solid momentum for our consumer business in many international markets.
And in the U.S.
we have actions underway to regain traction with our growth initiatives.
For our industrial business we expect global flavor demand from food manufacturers to remain robust sales of branded food service items to remain steady and sales to quick service restaurants to be mixed with the strength in EMEA further improvement in Asia/Pacific and better performance in the U.S.
Innovation will continue to be an essential driver of growth for both businesses.
Starting on Slide 14 items to be launched in the Americas during the first half include Recipe Inspirations with a $0.99 target price new Grill Mates seasonings and Hispanic seasonings new varieties of Zatarain's rice mixes and Lawry's marinades and innovation within our core items such as an extra-rich vanilla extract chipotle chile and value-priced grinders.
Our joint venture in Mexico has had early success with the launch of sweet products including syrups and gelatins.
The business has already gained 6% share of the gelatin category in Mexico.
One of our new launches in EMEA are limited edition recipe mixes and additional Flavour Shot varieties in the U.K.
18 new Vahiné homemade dessert products including toppings and decorations in France.
And in Poland and Russia we continued to rapidly expand our product offerings adding seasoning blends grinders and premium offerings.
In the Asia/Pacific region we continued to increase distribution of WAPC bouillon items in our coastal markets in China.
In addition we're introducing in Australia Flavour Shots and new varieties of our Marinade in a Bag and Slow Cooker seasonings.
And we continued to roll out our Kohinoor brand Rice 'n Spice in new cities in India.
We're increasing our brand marketing in 2014 in part to rapidly build awareness and trial for the strong pipeline of innovation.
We're also planning to drive sales of core products.
This includes further support for themed mega events during holiday periods grilling seasons and other important occasions and an increase in digital marketing.
Introducing consumers to FlavorPrint our online service that lets you define your unique flavor preference and match it with recipes and menus.
In total we plan to increase brand marketing by at least $25 million.
This exceeds our year-to-year increase in any of the past 5 years.
We plan to drive strong category growth underway in our key markets.
As a category leader we will remain on the forefront of innovation and keep our brands top of mind with consumers whether they're seeking value pricing authentic ethnic cuisine a premium product offering or other flavor experiences.
Our CCI program is an integral part of our strategy.
These ongoing productivity improvements will continue to be our fuel for growth.
And in 2014 our goal is to achieve at least $45 million in cost savings.
Putting these growth drivers together with our CCI projections we expect 2014 top line growth at 3% to 5% and an increase of 6% to 8% in operating income from adjusted operating income of $591 million in 2013.
We expect earnings per share of $3.22 to $3.29 in 2014 a 3% to 5% increase from adjusted EPS of $3.13 in 2013.
This EPS growth is below the operating income growth rate because of a projected 5% to 6% headwind from a higher tax rate and special charges.
Gordon will go more in-depth on our financial outlook.
To summarize my remarks 2014 marks McCormick's 125th year.
While it is a time to celebrate the rich history of this great company and our position today as a global leader in flavor our focus is on the future on the execution of our growth strategy and in building value for our shareholders.
Next Gordon is going to provide some further perspective on our fourth quarter results followed by comments on our 2014 outlook.
Gordon? Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
As Alan described our fourth quarter results varied by business segment and region with strength in a number of areas and weakness in our U.S.
consumer business this period.
I'd like to begin with a look at the sales and operating income results for each of our 2 segments starting with the consumer business.
As shown on Slide 17 consumer business sales rose 3% in local currency.
Included in this result were a 4% contribution from our WAPC acquisition offset by the impact of the estimated $30 million shift in U.S.
sales to the third quarter from the fourth quarter.
As we discussed in our September earnings call this related to customer purchases for our holiday display program and in advance of a pricing action.
So excluding these impacts we grew underlying consumer business sales by about 3%.
Slide 18 shows our Americas region results which included the unfavorable impact of the sales shift that lowered sales growth by an estimated 5.5%.
Excluding this impact sales rose about 2.5%.
Heading into the quarter we had expected stronger growth this period based on our holiday marketing activity and new products as well as a favorable comparison to the fourth quarter of 2012 when sales were adversely affected by Hurricane Sandy and retail purchase patterns.
However as Alan discussed U.S.
sales were below our expectations for the quarter despite strong category growth and actions are underway to improve our financial performance in 2014.
In this region we achieved good growth in Canada with particular success in innovation that included gluten-free gravy mixes and authentic ethnic items imported from our businesses and affiliates in China and the Philippines.
In Europe the Middle East and Africa EMEA sales in local currency rose 2% from the year-ago period.
The U.K.
and France led this growth through product innovation and marketing programs.
Sales in Russia also rose in the fourth quarter due in part to distribution gains.
And while still a small part of our business we now have a #1 category share up from #3 at the time of the Kamis acquisition.
Consumer business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 73% in local currency.
WAPC contributed 68% leaving a base business increase of 5%.
We continued to grow our base business sales in China at a double-digit rate while sales in India continued to reflect higher pricing.
Adjusted operating income for the consumer business was $178 million which was close to the fourth quarter 2012 result.
During this period higher sales and CCI cost savings were largely offset by a $6 million increase in brand marketing support increased retirement benefit cost and higher material costs.
Turning to our industrial business as seen on Slide 22 we grew fourth quarter sales 2.6% from the comparable year-ago period when measured in local currency.
Volume and product mix accounted for approximately 2/3 of the increase.
In the Americas industrial business sales declined 1%.
We grew sales of snack seasonings and other flavors to food manufacturers in this region and had solid sales of branded food service products.
Demand from quick service restaurants continued to be weak this period as Alan described.
We expect this weakness from quick service restaurants to continue into the first part of 2014 although we are encouraged overall by our new product pipeline for the Americas region as indicated.
In EMEA we had very strong industrial sales growth of 9% in local currency.
This builds on top of 12.5% local currency year-on-year growth in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 our industrial team was effective in increasing sales of customized flavor solutions through product innovation and expanded distribution.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we grew Asia/Pacific sales in local currency by 10% from the year-ago period.
This rate of growth has improved sales to quick service restaurants in China along with new inroads in India with the supply of industrial products to strategic customers.
As a reminder we had weakness in the year-ago comparison as industrial sales in this region declined 11% in the fourth quarter of 2012 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Adjusted operating income for the industrial business was $36 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This was a very strong profit result and as a percentage of sales operating income was 8.9% for the quarter.
Higher sales a favorable mix of business and CCI cost savings more than offset higher retirement benefit expense and material cost inflation.
As you compare to the year ago results of $23 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 keep in mind that we recorded $4 million in costs associated with a supplier quality issue that period.
For the total company we recorded fourth quarter operating income of $174 million.
This result included $25 million of special charges related to reorganization activities in EMEA as announced on October 17.
In 2013 we identified several projects in this region to improve productivity and process standardization.
We have chosen to report these charges as a non-GAAP item since they are significant and affect the comparability of our financial results.
We're also treating a $15 million loss on a voluntary pension settlement recorded in the fourth quarter as a non-GAAP item.
As discussed in our third quarter call this loss relates to the settlement of a lump sum pension payout offered to approximately 3 300 former U.S.
employees with deferred vested pension benefits.
Excluding these items adjusted operating income was $214 million and compared to $200 million in the year-ago period.
The favorable impact of higher sales and cost savings from our CCI program more than offset the increase in brand marketing support an increase of approximately $5 million in retirement benefit expense and higher material costs.
Moving below operating income our tax rate for the fourth quarter was 24.3% largely as a result of discrete tax items and a favorable mix of business between tax jurisdictions.
This tax rate was slightly below the fourth quarter of 2012.
Income from unconsolidated operations ended the year close to our initial outlook for a 10% increase.
As expected most of this growth occurred in the first half.
In the second half profit for our joint venture in Mexico included cost to relocate to a new manufacturing facility built to expand capacity for growth and improve efficiency.
We reported $0.98 earnings per share for the fourth quarter.
Adjusted EPS was $1.20.
As seen on Slide 30 compared to $1.11 EPS in the fourth quarter of 2012 higher operating income added $0.07 to earnings per share lower interest expense added $0.01 and our reduction in shares outstanding added another $0.01.
Let's turn next to our balance sheet and cash flow on Slide 31.
We ended the year with a strong balance sheet.
Following the acquisition of WAPC in mid-2013 by year end we were close to our debt-to-EBITDA ratio target and are well positioned for future acquisition activity.
We have a solid pipeline of opportunities heading into 2014.
We also increased our share repurchase activity in the fourth quarter.
We completed the $400 million authorization approved by McCormick's board in June of 2010 and began to buy back shares under the new $400 million authorization approved in April 2013.
During the quarter a total of 1.3 million shares were repurchased.
And at year end $360 million remain under this new authorization.
For the fiscal year we returned a record $357 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Net of option exercise proceeds the amount returned was $313 million an increase of 28% from $244 million in 2012.
Our cash flow from operations ended the year at $465 million above the $455 million result in 2012.
While pension plan contributions were lower in 2013 than 2012 inventory rose due in part to strategic raw material purchases and higher material costs.
We are pleased with the amount of cash we generated in 2013 and continue to have a balanced approach in our use of cash as illustrated by the chart on Slide 31 with similar amounts invested in acquisitions and capital expenditures and in dividends and net share repurchases.
As a final topic I would like to share McCormick's financial outlook for fiscal year 2014 as shown on Slide 32.
As Alan indicated projections indicate that global demand for flavor will continue to increase and we plan to participate in this growth through innovation brand marketing and acquisitions.
Starting at the top line we expect to grow sales 3% to 5%.
This projection is just below our 4% to 6% long-term growth goal and reflects a slower start to our consumer and industrial businesses in the U.S.
We expect volume pricing and the incremental impact of WAPC in the first half of the year to have similar contribution to our 2014 sales growth.
At this time we project the impact of currency to be just neutral to sales and profit in 2014.
We expect to grow operating income 6% to 8% from $591 million of adjusted operating income in 2013.
We expect CCI cost savings of at least $45 million which along with our pricing actions and more favorable business mix and low single-digit cost inflation to lead to a 50 to 100 basis point increase in gross profit margin.
Other factors that we anticipate will affect operating income in 2014 include an estimated $15 million decrease in retirement benefit expense that is largely the result of a year-on-year increase in the pension discount rate.
However we expect this favorable impact to be offset by higher employee incentive payments as we return to a more normal level of payout.
Special charges related to the EMEA reorganization activity announced in 2013 are expected to lower 2014 operating income by $2 million.
Moving on to the tax rate.
We are projecting our 2014 tax rate to be in a 30% to 31% range up from 26.8% in 2013.
This increase includes the estimated impact of a discontinuation of the R&amp;D tax credit a tax law change in France and the expected mix of income across tax jurisdictions.
In addition we are comparing to 2013 rate that included $3.9 million of favorable discrete tax items.
This projected year-on-year increase in the tax rate creates an unfavorable variance of $0.14 to $0.18 from our adjusted -- from our 2013 adjusted EPS of $3.13.
We anticipate a strong performance from our unconsolidated operations particularly our joint venture in Mexico with an increase of at least 15% in 2014 income from unconsolidated operations.
Based on these factors we are projecting 2014 earnings per share of $3.22 to $3.29.
This range is a year-on-year growth rate of 3% to 5% from adjusted earnings per share of $3.13 in 2013 and includes an unfavorable impact of 5% to 6% from the higher tax rate and special charges as shown on Slide 33.
As for the quarterly pace of earnings growth.
In the first quarter of 2014 we expect earnings per share to be comparable to the $0.57 that we reported in the first quarter of 2013.
This projection includes a planned increase of at least $7 million in brand marketing support a tax rate at the higher end of our 30% to 31% range and a slower start for our businesses in the U.S.
We expect another year of strong cash flow in 2014 and plan to use $120 million to $130 million on capital expenditures.
In the absence of any acquisitions we plan to use a significant portion of cash for share repurchases reducing shares outstanding by 1% to 2% in 2014.
That concludes my comments on guidance so now let's turn to your questions after which Alan will provide some closing remarks.
Operator we are ready for the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Chris Growe.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions for you.
If I can lead off first with -- as you had a little more sort of sluggish demand across the business on the consumer side in particular I want to ask about the increase in marketing for the coming year.
And is that more trade-oriented or actual sort of consumer marketing? And then maybe related to that you have a lot of CCI cost savings coming through but should we think about more of those savings having to be invested back in the business and not being as sort of readily available to the company going forward if it's going to require more and more investment to sort of spur revenue growth here? Yes the main focus of our marketing especially in the U.S.
is on the consumer.
We're going to spend about 40% of that marketing -- the advertising spend in digital which is going directly to consumers in the U.S.
We will have our usual trade promotion and marketing development funds but a lot more of that money is going into equity build as opposed to price discounts.
And our CCI program is right.
We typically think of our CCI as our fuel for growth.
And so we would expect to continue to reinvest to that back in the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then related to the cost inflation outlook for the year is there any kind of discrepancy or difference between the consumer division and the industrial division? I know industrial has more of a pass-through mechanism but I was curious if some of the inputs in that division are actually moving down in the short run and maybe consumer's up more than industrial.
I'm just curious as to the difference between the 2 divisions there.
Well I wouldn't say Chris there's any -- you can get slightly out of balance relative to what you just described with the pass-through mechanisms.
But I'd say in general they're pretty much in line.
Your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Lubi on for Akshay.
Just 2 quick questions if I may.
First off can you quantify the expected contribution from lower pension expenses as well as the accretion from acquisitions to fiscal '14 operating income? Yes the pension benefit we mentioned was a $15 million reduction to the 2014 pension compared to the 2013 pension expense.
We didn't get specific about the accretion from the acquisition.
In the initial model that we provided at the time of the acquisition we said about $0.03 in 2014.
As you heard in Alan's comments we're tracking quite well against that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then could you give us an update on the Kohinoor acquisition just what is the outlook for paddy supply paddy pricing distribution gains et cetera? Yes we expect an improved result in India this year.
We're starting to implement our programs of value-added rice mixes to go with the basmati rice.
We are in a better inventory position and we are expecting that we'll be able to grow that business this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any sort of projections or thoughts on where how much paddy supply is expected to grow or...
I'm afraid I don't have that at hand.
Relative to our total inventories it's not a really huge material item.
So we -- it's not typically something we break out separately.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman.
Research Division</strong> Alan can you talk a bit more about some of the drivers that you think are causing your share losses in the U.S? We've seen some categories in food that maybe a decade ago benefited from a mix-up or volume-to-value strategy and we're seeing somewhat of a reversal of that in those categories.
I'm just curious to what extent that may be true at all with spices and seasonings or whether you're seeing something different out there that's maybe affecting your share in your view.
Yes I think there's a couple of things going on.
One is an expansion of private label at multiple price points at some customers.
There's also been some gains by smaller competitors both from the value price and the premium price that are having some impact.
Our strategy to go after that is a couple.
One is very aggressive category management and telling the story and helping our customers to remember the strong profitability of the spice and seasonings category and the importance of that to them and the importance of McCormick in driving that profitability.
Because some of the things that are happening aren't necessarily driving the profitability.
On the premium side what you'll see this year is a relaunch of our Gourmet business with a strong emphasis on differentiating the superior quality and sourcing of our products in Gourmet.
We really believe the trends are there.
So it's not a one-size-fits-all it's really focused marketing against some very very specific segments.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up to that as you think about your strategy dealing with your customers as they perhaps pursue or experiment with more of a private label or smaller competitor strategy you guys had a lot of success convincing Wal-Mart a few years back to go away from their testing of that.
Do you use the data from that? Do you use the -- or are these retailers not even testing it they've just sort of made a decision to go for it and you have to sort of convince them to reverse that on a more permanent basis? Well and without getting into a lot of specifics on a lot of cases they're coming in through different departments.
They're not necessarily in the spice aisle they may be in the produce aisle or finding their way into different parts of the store and aren't as readily visible to the category managers we're dealing with.
So we are telling that story.
The second thing that we're really doing is showing a lot of that data that's still applicable that we saw in that test where the consumer really wants to buy the brand.
And what we wanted to be able to show them is the value and the differentiation in product for the brand.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow.
Research Division</strong> My question is similar to Ken's.
I was looking at kind of long-term market share trends in the category.
And the McCormick brand according to Nielsen has fallen every year in terms of overall share of spice and seasonings.
So -- and I appreciate the commentary here on category management and how you're going to push that harder but I guess I've also heard from you more advertising more innovation.
Have you thought through the advertising and innovation that you've done over the past 3 years? It seems like you've done a lot.
You're at $300 million in investment now.
Why hasn't that worked better I guess Alan? We're continuing to evaluate the programs.
We have some programs that have worked pretty well some that haven't worked as well.
Some of our spend has gone into some trade funds that weren't as productive as our equity building.
And I think what you'll find is a lot more of a focus on building and driving the equity and supporting new products that we're bringing out.
Our innovation pipeline has been -- in some of our markets hasn't been as robust as we need it to be.
And what we're really doing is relooking at our whole strategies.
And so we're launching a lot of products that are working in other markets.
And the gluten-free gravies from Canada is a great example of that where we believe that it will help to drive growth in the recipe mix category.
So we're really relooking at a lot of the things that we're doing.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
One last question on the tax rate just a modeling question but I think the guidance was for a 29% tax rate for fourth quarter.
You came in at 24.5%.
There's only $0.01 here from a discrete item and the rest appears to be just the mix of the geographies.
I mean was the mix of geographies that substantial in order to drive that big of a change in how the tax rate came in? Is it -- was the U.S.
that weak compared to your expectations I guess? It certainly was a big factor.
I would -- yes certainly it's relative to the expectation on the sales growth line.
You can see it did not come in relative to the expectation which guided that rate.
So that certainly was a big impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's the issue.
So as your U.S.
business improves that's going to drive your tax rate higher for 2014.
That's one of the factors.
And I also mentioned there's some legislative changes that were passed in December in France that are negatively impacting us on that rate.
Part of that is the retro.
There's a retro nature to it that will impact Q1 so that's why we're guiding to the upper end of that range in Q1.
And then obviously business mix and some of the lack of discrete items.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up on that question about private label and your marketing.
I think if I understood you correctly you focused quite a bit of increased marketing on the Gourmet line yet the market share growth comes in private label.
What does that -- does that discrepancy make sense? And with your focus on value-added product in an environment where consumers seem to go for the discount option should you maybe have more low-priced offerings? Yes we didn't mean to imply that all of our spending or a lot of our spending was in Gourmet.
We are relaunching Gourmet and there's going to be support behind that.
And that generates a fairly small percentage of our sales but it's a very profitable mix of sales.
We are focused on a number of large events everything from our current Super Bowl cooking activity to Easter and Grilling.
So I didn't mean to imply at all that we're only focused on the premium segment.
We're really focused on making sure consumers understand the value of McCormick and the value meals that they can prepare that are using our products.
So it's not so much on driving the premium products.
We are -- we're really focused on building the equity.
And we have to just -- go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I was about to say that that was my misunderstanding then.
But the question still is should you maybe have more discount offering? Well we participate in all price points in the -- in -- across the market everything from opening price point to private label for our customers.
So a part of that share gain is coming through in our sales obviously at a lower margin.
But we do have our value-branded items as well and as an example one of the -- couple of the items we're introducing are $0.99 recipe mix Recipe Inspirations and value grinders larger grinders at a competitive price.
So we've got some of those offerings that we're going with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question I had was the -- I think you mentioned that the QSR business will probably stay weak in the U.S.
in the first half of the year but you have new product innovation coming there.
Is there anything from your side that you can do to improve your QSR business in the U.S.? Or is that really a function of your customers getting growth again in the time segments or dayparts that are more meaningful for you? Yes it's a matter of the products that we supply and what our customers are featuring and driving.
We are much much better off when our customers are innovating and introducing new products or when they're driving core products that we supply.
And so we're -- there's -- where we win is by winning the innovations.
That's the parts that we can control.
By and large a lot of the things with that customer base is not in our control.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the private label discussion I was wondering if you could cite the profit mix between branded and private label roughly within North American consumer.
Because I would have thought that presumably private label outperformed branded in your portfolio and that would've driven a little bit more negative mix this quarter.
Yes it's still -- as a percentage of our total business it still is relatively small.
We certainly have a strong share of the total market but relative to our total portfolio it's still a relatively small part.
And it did not have an extremely big impact on the mix.
Clearly if we had skewed up more towards the core items the way we had anticipated mix would have been more favorable than what we showed both within the U.S.
consumer as a total company.
But I'd say in and of itself it's is not the main driver.
Research Division</strong> And then following up on -- you commented that a handful of retailers are -- I forgot what the actual exact wording was -- a few retailers had maybe seen better private label performance in North America than others.
Could you further characterize that? I mean is there a certain kind of place or a certain line where that penetration private label is doing a little better than branded in 2013? I wouldn't say -- by and large private label is still a fairly low percentage of the dollar sales in the category compared to a number of other categories.
What we're reacting to is that we've seen a higher level of growth.
And we've seen it in a mix of value-price retailers natural higher-end retailers and then some popular retailers who've adopted it as a strategy.
But it's still a little more than 20% of the category.
It's not -- in terms of volume and dollars it's even lower than that.
So it is something we are responding to something we are reacting to but -- and we know how to do that because where we compete in Europe and in Canada we have typically private label more like 50%.
I think the dynamic we've seen differently in 20 -- late 2012 and through 2013 is a little more fragmentation both in terms of other competitors as well as private label as new products have been offered.
Typically private label have been in a fairly limited number of products and we've seen some expansion.
We've seen some expansion in price points and that's what we're responding to.
Research Division</strong> And would you say that we're totally past the effect of the buy-in now? I mean I know it wasn't mainly Q4 to Q3 but some of these products have a reasonable shelf life.
Yes I would expect that what happened in third quarter was an awful lot of the holiday items.
We did see through the quarter consumption improved.
And so what we didn't see in our sales were reorders that we typically get after that kind of thing happens.
But yes we think by and large the buy-in -- and it was kind of compounded by the fact that we had a price increase at the same time but we think that's largely done.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman.
Research Division</strong> Let me just follow up on that one.
You -- how much of the price increase in the U.S.
do you think limited your results as opposed to Alan what I think is a reasonable characterization which is fragmentation and the company's let's say failure to adjust quickly enough? I think the price increase -- this price increase had very minimal impact.
It was -- it did impact that buy-in in third quarter.
But by and large by the time it got on the shelf with the consumer it had very very little impact and didn't impact much of the results.
I will say that one of the things we are really focused on Eric is really improving our responsiveness and our agility and our focus.
And we've already made changes in the alignment of our sales regions in the U.S.
and we're continuing to simplify our operation and our business to go after volume and share gains.
Research Division</strong> And so your stock underperformed significantly last year.
It's going to underperform most likely today and probably under a bit of a cloud.
So when -- with this increased responsiveness and the improvement in the -- or the more spending when should we see you start to gain back share and deal with this more complex retail landscape in the U.S? Well certainly...
Research Division</strong> Is it a second quarter event? If the first quarter is likely to be sluggish when can we start to look for that? We would expect to see improvement through the year.
We're changing what we're doing right now.
There is a very different dialogue that we're having with the customer.
A more assertive story on category management that's happening right now.
It may take some time for that to find its way into our results.
But we expect through the year that we're going to see improvement in that.
The guidance that we've given reflects our best outlook as to what we think is going to happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question and I'll pass it on.
Gordon for the consolidated top line forecast so it looks like x the pricing and x the acquisition you're looking for let's say 2% roughly 2% 2% to 3% in the core business.
And I think you said that the category is growing in most markets like 3%.
I think you said you expect some pass-through in the industrial.
So I'm not really getting a sense that you're assuming much of a rebound in the consumer side for the year.
Yes as we indicated we're at this right now and as Alan indicated but we are within our guidance reflecting time for this to build and have the impact that we expect as we progress through the year.
It's not an immediate turn-on that's built into that forecast.
We've talked about a bit of a slower start in the U.S.
So we're being cautious but we're being certainly positive and aggressive in how we're pursuing this.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Firstly it looks as though there was a nice rebound in the China industrial business after the problems that you've had with YUM! Brands out there for the last year.
Am I right in thinking that the rebound was above the Asia industrial 10% sales growth out there? And is that set to continue? That's the first question.
And then the second question is around acquisition strategy from here.
I think you alluded to a fairly target-rich environment for 2014.
Where are you targeting geographically? Is this something that would be smaller bolt-on acquisitions like the ones that you've pursued in the past or could there be something larger out there? How are you thinking about that this year? I'll take the first question on the industrial business in Asia and in China.
We did see some recovery and that's coming off some fairly weak results at the end of the year.
There -- it's still I wouldn't say a completely robust environment.
We've gained business with some local customers and are continuing to build our business there.
So we have a pretty positive outlook for that business as we go into this year.
I'll let Gordon talk about the acquisition activity.
We've got a number of targets.
And obviously it's tough to time those but we do have a number of targets in different parts of the world.
Yes clearly we continue to pursue our emerging markets strategy in that we've identified China and India and Eastern Europe as key target markets.
To Alan's point it's difficult to forecast these things because you don't know when these relationships turn into an actual process and a deal.
But likewise the bolt-ons that we continue to look at within the developed markets we're pursuing those as well.
So to the extent we find complementary businesses that we think fit quite well on our strength in flavorings and sensory and food we'll continue to pursue those.
So it's difficult to be precise because we don't know which one is going to hit first.
But I can tell you we're actively engaged in finding those targets that have helped us grow over the time -- over previous years.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Dickerson.
LLC</strong> I guess the first question I have is kind of a follow-up I think of an earlier question asked.
It is on price gap.
So I mean it sounds like over the past 4 years or so if you look at just stacked rates you probably have prices up for consumer anywhere from your 10% to 15%.
But we're kind of discussing how volumes are kind of -- seem soft and the outlook for '14 seems a little soft.
But at the same time we're also seeing that pricing -- we don't think pricing is really having an impact.
So I'm just -- if pricing isn't really having an impact on volumes as we're discussing then why is private label taking share? I mean how does private label compete with you outside of price? I didn't say -- I didn't actually say that pricing isn't having an impact.
I said it didn't have much of an impact in the fourth quarter last year.
But what we are seeing in the trends which is a little bit of a reversal of what we're seeing earlier in the year is that private label unit growth is a little stronger than private label dollar growth.
That tells me that there's some level of discounting.
Our unit growth is trailing our dollar growth in this business in the syndicated data which tells me there's some -- there's either some mixing of...
LLC</strong> I mean clearly that just means that the price gap is widening right which is [indiscernible].
That means over the past year the price gap has widened a little bit.
And that's part of our category management story with retailers is to help them understand what the optimum price gaps and pricing levels are for their premium branded products their core branded products their private label products and their opening price points so that they're not sacrificing category profitability to be able to impact that.
But certainly we are very sensitive to the price gaps that we have.
And we think there's been some impact in our unit volume.
And that gap has changed a little bit this year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just a simple housekeeping question.
On the tax rate the 30% to 31% projected for '14 what -- and it might be tough to kind of gauge this but what's your level of conviction on that? I just ask because over the past 4 full fiscal years you're at I think starting in maybe fiscal 2009 your tax rate has come in approximately anywhere from 200 to 300 basis points below where you originally guided.
And if we look at where earnings have come in that's obviously generated a decent amount of EPS relative to where consensus would have been let's say 5 years ago.
Tax rates are a very difficult thing to forecast because obviously it's kind of the last thing on the P&amp;L and it all relates to your assumptions surrounding business mix tax jurisdictions and then you're also trying to anticipate legislative impacts.
And as you know it's a very aggressive world we live in.
You're also trying to monitor and manage risk profiles as it relates to audits that are occurring all around the world constantly now.
So all I can tell you is based on the information we're looking at right now and based on what we know in the legislative environment that's our best estimate based on the mix of earnings and the forecast.
Will it change? As we progress through the year and we see how our businesses perform it certainly could change.
Things that are not assumed in there for instance is the R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
We're in that rate not assuming that that gets reinstituted.
But if Congress passes that that certainly could be a favorability that we didn't anticipate.
But at this time it's not passed so our rate reflects it.
It's those types of items that make it difficult to forecast.
But at this stage it's the best estimate we've got.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But I'm just asking because I guess as an analyst so I think about if you come in 250 basis points below for 4 years in a row then have you factored in yourselves that sensitivity over the past 4 years for next year's guidance or you're just kind of sticking with what you have? [indiscernible] We look at our outlook for the year.
And based on the mix of earnings and the legislative environment it's an add-up of our best estimate.
Clearly in this fourth quarter the U.S.
business didn't come in as expected.
So it clearly had an impact on the rate and that was one of the factors that we experienced.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one goes back to the pensions.
I believe that you guys said that pensions would be favorable something like by my calculation about an $0.08 tailwind for 2014 but that you wanted to match that up with the requirement for higher incentive comp because I think the 2013 incentive comp was below normal.
Is that an accurate recap? Yes.
The only thing I would add is it didn't all occur in 2013.
2012 fourth quarter also.
So I wouldn't say all of that rebuild occurred because of 2013.
These things occur gradually over time.
So year-to-year over time we've been below target for 2 straight years.
And now we're trying to build back to target.
Research Division</strong> This is really important.
So when you build back is it a 1-year build back or is it something that's actually a headwind even in the next year? Because these kinds of things are always -- like pension was obvious on the outside that this would be a tailwind.
Higher incentive comp is always less obvious.
So it's always important to hear your comments.
So is it a 1-year build back or is it multiyear? Well it's a variable component based on performance.
So it kind of pays for itself depending on the performance.
So if we perform really well we could build it back in 1 year.
So it'll just be a function of the variable performance of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question is just -- just want to come back to this because I think this really matters.
In the fourth quarter consumer volumes by our estimates needed to come in like plus 4 points so volumes need to be up 4.
They come in down 3.5.
So it's a 750 basis point forecasting miss.
That's an enormous number.
I think you guys are saying here that it's private label it's price gaps and so forth.
Alan what I'd really like to ask is just simply that if you went into the biggest holiday season and you go in with a price increase and historically you've never put a price increase in front of that holiday season all these numbers just because of the magnitude of them they scream at me that what should have happened was a price decrease in order to stay competitive on these price gaps.
So it's just -- it's an internal forecasting miss not something that you couldn't handle.
And maybe that's what you mean by being more nimble in the future.
But I'd like to hear your response.
Yes the price increase only at least in the short term only impacted the shift between quarters.
What we expected is because we'd had a fairly -- with a lot of onetime issues in 2012 was a rebound from some supply issues we had and some of the demand from the Northeast where Hurricane Sandy impacted us.
And as we issued that guidance we were seeing fairly good consumption data.
What we didn't see in October and November were the sales and the reorders that we would've -- that we expected.
We absolutely missed that forecast.
And so that is what we are getting back at now is not only forecasting better but executing better.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar.
Research Division</strong> Alan you mentioned that some of these other entries or entrants into this space are coming in in some different areas as opposed to just the core spice and seasoning aisle.
But for those that are in your core aisle I've always thought about this space as generally being pretty set.
And you obviously have a very high share of that sort of shelf set if you will over time.
And so are they gaining access to some space that McCormick might have had at one point but lost? Or is the overall spice and seasoning space gaining some traction in shelf space in retailers which are allowing for some of these other entrants to kind of come on-shelf? That's the first question.
Yes there's a little bit of an expansion of space and some of these competitors are gaining some space.
We've had limited losses of actual space.
What's happening is a couple of years ago the retailers were moving very much to managing SKUs and concentrating.
What we're seeing at least in our category and I can't speak to other categories is more fragmentation.
So rather than a strategy that looked like it was going to be strong national brand limited regional competitors and a strong private label it looks like that what's happened over the last year year and a half has been more of those regional competitors gaining some traction that they have lost about 4 years ago.
We're responding really aggressively to that because it's not helping the overall growth or the profitability in the category for the retailer.
And that's the story we're telling.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then this is more a little out there and probably not what's needed at all but I'll throw it out there.
There have been a couple of large categories that are very different than yours of course.
But let's call it like liquid detergents where Tide is going to come out with a Tide Basic right? So folks who want the brand really comfortable with the brand maybe don't need quite the level of efficacy that would be with core Tide and are willing to sort of move down on that scale a little bit.
But want the brand just want to pay a little less for it.
The price gaps there and the pricing is very different I'm sure but I'm just trying to get a sense.
Do you think there's an opportunity for some additional offerings maybe using the McCormick brand but carefully so because that can get a little sensitive? Could you also kind of come more aggressively at that lower-end consumer? Yes we're exploring a number of different alternatives like that.
We already offer a number of different price points but we are exploring both on the premium and on the value what the right way to respond is.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman.
Research Division</strong> I guess kind of diving onto Dave Driscoll and Andrew's points can we go into the U.S.
business in a little bit more detail because -- I mean are we talking the bulk of the weakness was concentrated in the core spice and seasonings business or was this more broad-based? I mean are you being outperformed in Zatarain Lawry's the Simply Asia business? Or is this just the Grill Mates? Or is it just core spice and seasoning mix? No.
We saw some weakness in some of our diversified businesses and we're addressing those as well.
But as you well know the bulk of our profitability and our sales comes from the core categories and that's where the majority of our emphasis is going to be.
Research Division</strong> And so one other question.
So I mean it seems like you're doing -- when I talk to other companies Europe for the consumer is a disaster continues to be.
U.
S.
a bit better albeit still very challenging.
But you seem to almost have kind of the reverse of it.
So what is it that's doing so well relatively well in Europe versus what seems to be such a weak ending to last year for the U.S.? Yes our innovation platform in Europe has been more robust and more successful.
Another part of the growth in Europe comes from our dessert business there which we don't participate very much in here but it really is down to a more successful innovation platform.
Your final question comes from the line of Mr.
William Keller.
This is actually Sam Knezevic on for Bill.
My question actually is either for Gordon or Alan.
Has your relationship with the retailers in the U.S.
changed as it relates to your ability to sell them the private label products you manufacture alongside your branded product portfolio? I wouldn't say the relationship has changed but it is 2 separate purchases.
The branded tends to be a very traditional consumer packaged goods sale.
The private label offering which is again a part of our category management story is -- and the reason we're in that business is to help the retailer get the right mix of products to maximize sales and profits.
I would say that in a lot of cases the retailers are separating those buys and private label is more of a bid process.
But our category story hasn't changed.
Our relationship really hasn't changed but some retailers have been more aggressive at bidding those kinds of products as opposed to the branded businesses.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Alan Wilson for any closing remarks.
I'd like to thank everybody for your questions and participating in today's call.
We hope you'll be able to join us at CAGNY on February 19 whether you're there in person or by webcast to learn more about our outlook for flavor and how we're going to capitalize on our growth.
At McCormick we have 125-year of heritage of innovation collaboration and commitment to this business that's at the foundation of our global leadership in flavor.
With a passion for flavor we continue to drive growth and position our business for future success.
Thank you.
I'd like to give my thanks to everyone on today's call.
Through February 5 a replay of the call can be accessed by dialing (855) 859-2056.
The conference ID number is 19671330.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding our information today please give us a call at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes this morning's conference.
With that this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
[Operator instructions.] Your first question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Could you provide us with a little bit more insight on how this quarter was so much better than what you initially expected? Where was the upside surprise? It’s in a few areas.
It would be stronger growth in pretty much all of our businesses outside the U.S.
and within the gross margin it was stronger gross margin based on the mix that we experienced within the quarter.
So I would say those two factors are primary ones that outdelivered relative to our initial expectations.
Is the stronger growth outside of the US driven by one-time factors because based on what I’m hearing about the world outside the U.S.
it’s not looking necessarily that much better from a macro perspective.
Well there’s nothing one-time in nature within the quarter.
I mean it was all driven by the brand marketing support innovation and on the industrial side the strength of our customer relationships.
So I can’t say that there was an anomaly within it.
Certainly we see the world that we operate in and understand it’s a difficult environment and that continues to give us caution as well.
I’d say one thing where we’re a little counter to some of the rest of what we’re reading is our business in China is continuing to show strong growth and we’re gaining distribution of our core business and then the acquisition of WAPC has outperformed what we expected it to.
And then on Kohinoor you called out high price increases due to higher input costs again and the impact on volume.
What we’re hearing from other basmati rice companies in India they seem to be faring much better with these price increases and might have a different input cost profile than you do.
Can you provide a little bit more background there what the level of input cost increase is and why the impact on volume is so meaningful? We’re seeing about a 20-plus percent increase in the cost of rice and are passing that through and are dealing with that with volume.
We may have a bit of a different supply chain model than some of our competitors there because we are more -- remember our strategy in India is to use the access to the supply chain and the customer base to expand into different areas.
So while Basmati rice is the business today that’s not our long term intention.
So we have a little bit different objective and a different profile than some of our competitors there.
My question is on the Europe business which is strong and it sounds like there’s a lot of support put behind it.
From what we’ve seen that region can be rather volatile and recently we’ve only heard negative commentary on grocery there.
So what we’d like to know is what gives you the confidence that what you’re seeing here is sustainable growth? I’d never say it’s ever not going to be a bit volatile but what we’re doing is driving our new product innovation supporting it with pretty strong advertising both in our core spice and seasoning business and the recipe mix business that we have in France and we’re seeing the response from that.
That doesn’t say Europe’s not a tough place to operate and is not highly competitive but we’re gaining traction from the programs that we have.
And then just as a follow up on the value side the plan to turn around the U.S.
consumer business according to our scanner data it looks like private label continues to take share and you had mentioned kind of innovation ranging from the value to the premium side so I guess I wanted to know how you plan to combat the private label competition specifically.
We offer a broad range of products across all the price points and to remind you we do produce private label so that’s a part of what’s in our portfolio as well.
What we’re doing is one making sure we’ve got the right promoted price at the right times of the year when consumers are buying.
The second thing is building the equity behind our brand and then driving product innovation in the category.
I think the spice and seasonings business it’s still going to take some time.
We’re encouraged by what we’re seeing in our core business our core products early on and that’s what we’re supporting with advertising.
We’re also driving the category and gaining share in our recipe mix business.
So we’ve got early signs of traction.
We’re not calling the turnaround yet but we are encouraged by what we’re seeing.
Wanted to ask about the industrial operating margin.
When I look over a multiquarter period of time really in 2013 every quarter seem to get sequentially better although clearly on a year over year basis a number of those quarters in fiscal ’13 were down from fiscal ’12.
The simple question here is you had nice improvement year on year in the first quarter industrial margins.
Do you expect that to continue and is the pattern of sequential improvement throughout ’13 indicative as to what’s happening within the business? It’s a fair observation.
And certainly we are building upon the improvement that we saw in the fourth quarter which was very strong margin for that business and we’re pleased with the performance we saw in Q1.
We certainly look for better performance on the industrial business.
The absolute margin is a function of promotional activity and mix of the business within the quarter so I’m a little cautious about saying that each quarter will get sequentially better but I’d say overall we certainly are looking for an industrial margin improvement.
And it’s a function of the recovery that we’re seeing in some of those markets like China a slightly more benign inflationary environment and good CCI performance.
But I’m encouraged by the performance but we’re still a bit cautious on predicting it quarter by quarter.
Can you just say what are the factors that are causing that fiscal second quarter to be flattish year on year? It seems like when we just look at the first quarter results a lot of the things that happened in the first quarter repeat in the second quarter yet you’re expecting a worse result versus the growth that we saw in Q1.
So what’s happening in Q2? Well we’re going to lean into our business again so the brand marketing support that you saw in Q1 we’re repeating that again in Q2 and perhaps even a little more.
As we mentioned the unconsolidated income line will continue to be impacted by some of these relocation costs that we saw in Q1 from our unconsolidated venture in Mexico.
You heard us talk about some of our caution on the QSR side of things in the U.S.
and we’re still encouraged by the early signs of the U.S.
consumer business but we are up against some strong comparisons in the second quarter of last year where we great volume quite strongly.
So that’s part of our caution as well.
I hear you on all of those comments.
I would only say that from the outside it looks like those are consistent with the same forces that impacted Q1.
So it’s not immediately obvious why Q2 would be flat but I’ll leave it there.
Just to touch on the global industrial for a second and the strength there I think Thilo might have asked this question in another way but with the Heinz 3G Burger King connection they made some strides with McDonald’s did you pick up some McDonald’s business? And has that been a help to that side of the company? Well as you know that is a significant customer for us and we supply them around the world.
So there has been some realignment in the supply chain there and we’ve been growing our business with that customer in Europe and in China.
Just where we picked it up from is tougher to say.
And then the second question on the U.S.
consumer business Alan I asked you last quarter was the weakness that you had reported in the fourth quarter really just a function of core spice and seasonings or was it broader based into things like Zatarain’s and some of the grilling items etc.? Can you go into a little bit more detail? It sounds like this core spice and seasonings business was still pretty weak but is that true with some of the other products as well? Or did you make improvement there? We’re seeing improvement actually in our core spices and our recipe mixes.
We’re still seeing some weakness in some of those other brands and some of it’s driven by our promotion plans from last year.
We were pretty heavy early in the year.
Is there going to be more spread this year? Secondly a little bit of a lighter Mardi Gras and I never want to use weather as an excuse but we’re seeing in Zatarain’s for instance the cost of crawfish pretty high right now.
We’d expect this to be coming into pretty heavy crawfish season the weather has made that a little later.
But fundamentally what we’re doing is driving behind our core business which is our most profitable business and then over time we’re addressing the other businesses.
I’m going to have to keep better track of my crawfish pricing index.
Yeah right now it’s about $5 and in the middle of the season it should be about $3.50.
You’re wondering why I know that.
And then just as a quick follow up and then I’ll pass it on I think you mentioned that you had put more money behind the gourmet line.
And I guess that’s your highest price point in the core spices business? Did I hear that correctly? And is that kind of the response to some of the other spice products being available in other aisles of the store and that’s kind of at least initially how you intend to combat the new competitors in various outlets? Well we segment the consumer in a couple of different ways.
One is by price point the other is by how involved they are in cooking.
And gourmet is the involved cook who wants the best product and so we are supporting and differentiating our product based on our freshness and unique sourcing of those products.
So that is one part and one segment that we’re going after.
The other part of that is the more core and value price consumer.
We have some other programs to try to impress that.
And then later in the year we have a relaunch of our gourmet products that we’re expecting to roll out.
I wanted to ask about the comment you made on the U.S.
consumer segment.
You said you were seeing early signs of some improvement I believe.
Can you give us some color on that? What is it exactly that you’re seeing that makes you feel that way.
We’re seeing our share gap closing with our core spices.
We’re seeing growth and actually share gains in our recipe mixes.
And we are seeing a flattening of share from some of those fragmented competitors that we talked about.
Private label continues to gain but the regional and smaller competitors are flattening out a bit.
And in terms of your decision to continue to spend heavily behind that can you give us some sense of you already had a pretty dominant share of [voice] in that segment or category.
Can you talk about the returns you’re seeing on the incremental dollars you’re spending? Are they still pretty high return and better than the industry average for every incremental dollar that you’re spending on advertising? We’re still continuing to see pretty strong ROIs based on the spending that we have and in fact advertising and our digital programs have much higher ROIs than the promotional spends that we were doing.
We got a little heavy I think over the last year in promotional spend and not all of those were great paybacks and didn’t build equity.
So we’ve adjusted our spending away from promotions.
But we’ve adjusted our spending to more focus on equity building.
And last one on the Kohinoor acquisition if you just take a step back can you summarize how that acquisition has performed since you bought it? There’s been some puts and takes.
And then just give us a sense of where you are really.
Are you in the first or second inning of your strategy to introduce new products through that distribution chain? So perhaps what may have happened that’s worse than your expectations so far and then sort of where are we now relative to your broader longer term plan in India? I think we’re in the early stages of our plan in India.
The things that we have done over the last year we didn’t acquire the full supply chain for that business in India because what we wanted was the retail presence and the ability to drive other products through that chain.
What we’ve done over the last year has been to beef up our own supply chain to improve our service levels and to get better control of our inventory.
We’re focused on continuing to build our capabilities there and to start to introduce those new products.
We have those products in place now and we’re starting to roll those out.
We’ve got our distribution chain in place.
We expect to continue to see it grow but again to remind you of our strategy in emerging markets we have a tendency to pay as we go.
So we’re not going to get out over the tips of our skis and invest and lose a lot of money in a market until we’re sure we have the infrastructure to support it and then we’ll expand as we go.
That’s exactly what we did in China that’s what we’re doing in India.
You asked how it’s performing it’s performing below our expectations at this point but we feel like we’ve got the right plans to address it.
The first one if I could ask is a bit of a follow on to Dave Driscoll’s question about Q2.
I guess I also had been planning on a bit of an Easter shift into Q2 as well.
Is that occurring? Can you give us a better sense of how it helped Q2? That’s a difficult one to predict quite honestly.
And we haven’t talked about that and certainly our internal forecast that is guiding us toward the direction we’re giving you now has accounted for that.
But I couldn’t quantify that for sure for you right now.
There is some shift in timing and it could have an impact but our current outlook is exactly what Gordon says.
Could you cite how much emerging market growth you had this quarter? What sort of dollar sales growth did you see in those markets? Was that a significant contributor to the first quarter? Well certainly the Wuhan acquisition is emerging markets so we broke that out for you separately and we talked about China being up 20% also on the consumer side and then double digit on the industrial side.
So we’re talking double digit type increases on the emerging market side.
So it was a big help and that was one of the outperformers on the quarter relative to our expectations.
It drove a lot of the consumer growth rate.
If I could maybe squeeze in one more which is in relation to the marketing did more of the marketing this quarter go towards Europe? And it looks like you had a pretty significant increase there and maybe you’ll spread it more towards the U.S.
in the second quarter? Just curious how the phasing will go in between divisions.
No Europe was up about 38% but half the marketing increased spend was in the U.S.
First as you look into the summer and you see much higher meat costs approaching just curious how that affects your marketing plan in any way for grilling.
And second it looks like Cerberus will be on track to buy Safeway here.
If that deal goes through do you expect it will affect your distribution in any way? I’m just curious if you’re stronger with either of those customers.
In terms of meat costs because our grilling portfolio has a wide range of products that are good for a wide range of meat even if the consumer starts trading from filets to cheaper cuts of meat or even to burgers a lot of our innovation actually is actually the burger mixes.
So what we think will impact us more is the return to more normal weather.
We’re really hoping for some better weather as we head into the Memorial Day weekend.
But our products will span across the broad range whether it’s pork or chicken or hamburger obviously our Montreal steak is great on steaks and we hope the consumers are continuing to buy.
But we think we’re well-positioned no matter what’s happening across the broad portfolio.
In terms of the Safeway Albertson’s acquisition/merger we have a good position with both those customers and so we’re not anticipating this to have a significant impact on our business.
We do have a strong relationship with both of them.
As long as they’re driving to win in the marketplace we think that’s good for us.
Two questions from me.
The first one obviously you talked about seeing some of the early signs and I guess I was under the impression it’s probably still the case that this kind of turnaround in the U.S.
consumer is still going to take some time.
But I guess things are reacting maybe positively a little more quickly than maybe I had thought.
Is it fair to say that the brand equity building part is what’s currently driving some of those early signs and the winning at retail piece is going to take more time? Or is that not the right way to look at it? I think that’s kind of the right way to look at it.
I don’t want to get over-optimistic because we know it is going to take some time but we are doing exactly what we said we were going to do.
We’re out selling our message with retailers.
That is a customer by customer and in some cases region by region approach that is going to take some time.
And frankly it’s never done because when we present something that works for us the competitors in there are presenting something else as well.
So that’s going to be a longer slog but we immediately changed our focus into building consumer equity and we’re starting to see some of the benefits of that.
In terms of the winning at retail piece even though it’s very early are there any anecdotal thoughts you can share with maybe how some of those conversations have gone? Are you seeing traction where you’ve had some conversations in sort of communicating to retailers where this makes sense and where some of their actions don’t make as much sense for them? Yeah we are seeing certainly varying degrees of acceptance and action in the store from that but what we’re really showing them is the best way to grow their sales and profits in this category and we’re benefitting from the fact that the best way for them to grow their sales and profits is the same thing that works for us which is to sell more higher-turning McCormick SKUs as opposed to lower-turning cheaper alternative products.
And then last quarter on the call we talked a little bit about how you were looking at potentially some different options in order to address the consumer trends both at the value end and the premium end and potentially could include thinking about a different line for sort of evaluating let’s say.
Maybe it’s under the McCormick name maybe it’s under a different name or somehow related.
But I didn’t know if there were any conclusions you came to with respect to how to address that and if there were going to be some other new items there along those lines that we just haven’t seen yet.
Yeah we are working on some premium solutions as well as some more value solutions.
We already have a number of the offerings in the value range and our strategy with those is to meet a customer need.
Because those don’t necessarily drive traffic and they don’t necessarily drive profitability for the retailer or for us but they’re there to meet a customer need.
We have a number of those offerings and we’re continuing to evaluate what the right value offerings are.
The premium we’ve got some very concrete plans.
Just two quick questions and maybe one last one on China.
The quarter was quite strong.
Do you feel like you’re starting to get more of a mass there now in terms of maybe distribution wins getting a little bit easier than 12 months earlier? And then just maybe building on that are there more M&amp;A opportunities that could further accelerate things there? We certainly feel good that we’re building scale in our consumer business in China.
Our core business has continued to grow pretty strongly and then Wuhan WAPC is an accelerator to that because it gets us access to a much bigger sales force in a different part of the country than where we’ve been.
So that’s why we made the acquisition.
We see other opportunities for acquisition not just in that market but in a number of the markets that we’ve targeted so we have a pretty good outlook and a pretty good pipeline for those kinds of acquisitions.
Is the pipeline pretty similar to what you’ve seen the last 12 or 18 months? Or kind of getting better or worse? I would say the pipeline itself is pretty similar.
And whether it comes to closure is another question but the pipeline is pretty similar is what we’ve seen.
And then just one quick question if I could on the input cost front.
Any update on what you’re seeing? I saw the low single digit guidance in the slide deck but I know your bucket’s a little bit different than some of the other CPG group and can be a little bit more volatile at times.
So any additional color on things maybe to watch out for this year that you’re seeing right now? The things that we see that are starting to move up are as you’ve probably seen corn and wheat and soybeans and dairy are starting to move up a bit.
So those impact us more on the industrial side of our business.
I wouldn’t say that we have any significant changes on the consumer side.
I’d like to thank you for your questions and for participating today.
McCormick’s 2014 fiscal year is off to a good start.
Our strategic imperatives around people growth and performance are driving sales delivering CCI cost savings which is our fuel for growth and generating higher profits and strong cash flow.
At McCormick we bring the joy of flavor to every day.
Our 125-year heritage of innovation collaboration and commitment to this business is at the foundation of our global leadership in flavor and has us well-positioned for the future.
Thank you.
Thanks Alan.
I’d also like to thank those on this morning’s call.
A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 855-859-2056.
The ID number is 22127582.
You can also listen to the replay on our website later today and if anyone has additional questions regarding today’s information you can reach us at 410-771-7244.
This concludes this morning’s conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you.
We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for the question.
Alan your Nielsen numbers they showed a decline but not to the degree you reported domestically.
So I guess I am curious if you could help us understand that disparity a bit.
Gordon touched on a later grilling season so I am curious if it was a shipment timing issue or may be channel issue or non-measured maybe doing a little bit less impressively than measured I am just trying to I guess understand that dynamic a bit better? It's pretty hard to calibrate all the different sources of information.
We use IRI and we have a custom database so from our outlook I'll talk more generally without trying to get into specifics of the data as to what's happening.
From our view what we saw was less of a decline in share than we saw in the fourth quarter of last year.
Partly we think that some of our efforts at retail are starting to have an impact.
It's going to be -- it's going to take some time and we expect that we will win.
But in terms of getting to the data specifics it's really hard for us to get.
There was a later start to the grilling season.
The weather was not favorable for grilling.
We're expecting a pretty good grilling season as we go through the summer and we're planning to extend it through the third quarter and even through Labor Day and to tailgate season so we're pretty encouraged.
Most of our new products are going to hit in the second half of the year and we're pretty excited about those as well.
Thank you.
And then if I can ask one more Gordon we're seeing a good number of packaged food companies thinking about rationalizing production and overhead in the U.S.
even mills right which has an ongoing cost savings program just like yours I think is going this route.
So curious if you guy are considering going down this road or if are you comfortable with your cost structure I guess at the moment? Well you always need to challenge yourself to be competitive and that’s the whole nature of the CCI environment and the idea behind the program as you know Ken when we developed it a few years ago was to keep looking at those opportunities on a go forward basis and you can never stop.
I will calibrate it a bit though in that if you recall a few years ago in the North American businesses in particular we did some significant rationalization particularly in the consumer side where we did reduce a number of plants and so therefore our footprint is pretty consolidated here at the U.S.
in our consumer business.
In the industrial side our plants tend to be more specialized for customer service needs and having said that we constantly look at our network and the best way to organize ourselves.
So we still look for these opportunities all the time.
And we have adjusted our SG&amp;A and headcount for the volumes that we’ve seen in -- both in manufacturing as well as in our headquarters.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Can I just ask for a little bit more granularity on the share losses? Could you remind us is it concentrated in a particular region with a particular type of retailer? Is it private label you are losing shares to or value brands or premium brands? And do you know which consumer segments you are losing share to is it a Hispanic group is it millennial consumers or older consumers? Just a little bit more detail on how you are seeing the development of about share changes? Thank you.
Yeah it has changed a bit in the more recent periods.
Private label is more flat.
Most of the -- we have one larger branded competitor and that competitor is relatively flat.
And so what we are seeing is very small inroads from a number of small and regional competitors that are gaining one-tenth of a share point or two-tenths of a share point.
Their overall share base is still less than 1% or 2% I think as I looked at the most recent period and of the ten brands that gained share no one other than McCormick by the way our core A to Z actually gained a slight bit in the most recent period but nobody had more than 2% share in all that.
So it's pretty -- what’s happening is the consumer and the retailers are pretty fragmented and some of that’s from the value end some of that’s from the premium end.
We compete across both of those segments.
And so we’ve got different tactics that we are using to compete with the super-premium and in some cases even bag spices that are finding their way into measured markets and then on the premium end with what we are doing with our innovation.
Great thank you very much.
I’ll pass it on.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you.
Hey Gordon I was trying to reconcile the guidance with the operating income being up 6% to 8% the tax rate down share count down we are getting a number that seems to go beyond the high end of your range for EPS at $3.29.
I just want to make sure I am doing this right.
So is the 6% to 8% is there -- are we supposed to reduce that for currency or is that 6% to 8% absorbing the currency? It's getting pressure from currency I’d say that.
But I don’t want to be more specific than that.
Obviously currency is going to put some pressure on that number.
The other thing on the operating income line as you heard Allen talk about is we are supporting our business in the back half of the year.
We’ve spent year-to-date $11 million in advertising promotion and we’ve said at least $25 million in the back half.
So that’s going to be a factor impacting those numbers as well.
And then just to help calibrate the tax rate that tax rate un-favorability as you know is very much weighted towards the back half of the year.
So that’s also -- something else needs to be factored in because that all starts to occur I think our last year’s rate for the second half was a little north of 25% and at 29.5% that’s quite a drag on the EPS in the back half of the year.
Okay Gordon I get that but just to be more clear your sales guidance is in constant currency.
So I know what to do with that and you have a 1% hit for ForEx on the top line.
Is it also a 1% hit on the operating income line does is it flow through and is it 6% to 8% ex-currency or not? The 6% to 8% is not ex-currency that's all in.
So it would reflect whatever pressure that currency drops through to the bottom line.
And generally it's not a one for one relationship but there is certainly a negative hit on that 6% to 8% from currency.
All right I got it now.
So last question in fourth quarter that's your biggest quarter especially in the U.S.
for seasonal reasons.
Are your market share -- do you expect your market share to be down again in fourth quarter in the U.S.
Alan or are you going to have lapsed those market share losses by that time and if we can expect kind of a normal growth pattern for fourth quarter? We expect to stabilize and start to grow our share but certainly in the fourth quarter we think we will lapped the impact in share from last year.
Okay.
So you expect like a pretty good seasonal time period this year.
Have gotten initial sell-in already for how much inventory your customers are looking at for the seasons? Yeah we're selling in right now.
The display programs are the easy things for us to track.
The turn orders are a little more difficult but we're encouraged by what we're seeing with our holiday sale-in at this point.
Great thank you.
Great thank you and good morning.
Good morning Dave.
Want to go back to the question that Rob was asking a moment ago about the guidance.
I am going to try it differently though.
So if all the numbers are unchanged except we have a nice lower tax rate 100 basis points of tax if I go from the midpoint of what the prior range was to the new one that’s worth like a nickel.
So the other observation is that the segment results are coming in especially this quarter weaker than what we had modeled.
So is it fair to say that within this range of operating income of 6% to 8% that you are now towards the lower end of this and then the tax comes in to give you the confidence to reiterate the range.
Is that a correct way to look at these pieces of guidance? It's certainly from the operating results from the quarter we had puts and takes.
We had the strong growth in the international markets and then we had obviously the U.S.
consumer results that you saw as we reported.
It's too early for us to be that specific.
I think all we are saying at this stage is really that we acknowledge that the tax rate is more favorable so that gives us more confidence in the upper end of the range.
As we progress through the year I think our statements around that operating income range we firm those up as we see the traction in the U.S.
consumer business and how the programs are playing out as we progress through the year.
All right.
I guess I was hoping that you might give me confidence that you actually can hit the upper end of that operating income because of course the second quarter numbers would may be give most people the opposite impression given the declining consumer I mean which is obviously very concerning.
While we certainly are encouraged as you heard in Alan's comments by all the programs and activities that we have lined up for the back half of the year.
So I don't want to convey that we don't believe we're able to certainly return to a growth mode in that business.
But at the same time as you know the third and fourth quarter start to be the biggest parts of our year.
So we just have to see how it plays out for the rest of the year.
Okay.
Last question just on the tax rate.
This is a little specific so apologies for it but it's important the lower tax rate is it a function of specific discrete benefits or would you describe this as more of a mix issue because obviously when you have the U.S.
business under performing it fundamentally has a mix effect on the tax rate.
But I would like to understand the difference between the discrete benefits and the mix issue? Yeah there is some minor discrete benefits and by the vast majority of the adjustments reflects the mix of the geographies across tax jurisdictions.
Okay thank you.
Good morning thank you very much.
Good morning Jon how are you? A couple of questions.
First on WAPC benefits as you lap the closing the transaction May 31 do you anticipate still getting kind of desk distribution benefits and then as we go forward will that be reported -- won’t be reported separately but is that going to lift the same store results I guess of the business? Is WAPC growing on a same-store basis right now? Yeah WAPC is growing on a same-store basis and we do expect that to continue.
It's continuing to expand both geographically and in penetration.
And the other thing that we are working and starting to do is to develop some synergies between our core selling force from the coastal region where they sell more of the WAPC items and the WAPC sales force which will sell more of the McCormick items in the central region.
So we are encouraged by the growth rate there and pretty bullish on that business.
Thanks Alan.
And one other thing I want to follow up on you had a comment in your prepared remarks about being pleased with the ROI you are getting on the ad spending and media spending you are doing in the I think that was a U.S.
market you are referring to.
Could you give us more clarity on how you measure that? And if you are getting positive ROIs does that mean we’ll see more of spending in the U.S.
market to sort of turn things around second half of the year? Yeah and that’s exactly what we’ve said as well.
The way we measure that is with the classic marketing mix and we are looking at the impact on that marketing in the short term.
Where we are spending our money is about half in TV half in digital and PR and so we are encouraged by what we are seeing.
What you’ll see in the back half is additional support for our big programs like holiday fall cooking and also some digital initiatives that will help to drive some of our new product sales.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks Jon.
Our next question is from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for the question.
Alan you talked about the market share losses in the quarter spice and seasoning business not being as significant as they were compared to the fourth quarter.
And how did they compare I guess sequentially versus the first quarter? Because I think as of the last conference call you certainly sound relatively optimistic tone at least from an early days preliminary perspective on the reaction to some of the things you are trying to do in the market place.
And in this call obviously suggesting making progress but of course still have a ways to go.
So I am trying to get a sense of anything has changed from the first quarter? And if so what led to that? No I wouldn’t say that anything has changed from the first quarter this year.
Results are pretty similar.
I will say if there is anything there is a little bit of optimism because we grew share in recipe mixes and have started to see some growth there.
But I wouldn’t say that there is a dramatic change from the first quarter.
Okay and then in terms of seasonal selling and such I guess the last year or two I may have it wrong you sort of pushed forward or pulled forward the time frame in which you will sell in a lot of seasonable displays because you found that the sooner those kind of get in store the more folks are charged up around the seasons and end up coming back and such.
Is that a program that you are staying with around the timing and for those reasons or has it already changed based on last year or so? Yeah we still have the holiday program which we’ve had for I think about eight or nine years now which is to get the specific displays in the store it is early as possible.
Obviously year-on-year we have a lot of fluctuation based on the timing that some specific large customers take their holiday shipments.
Sometimes they will be in the third quarter sometimes they’ll be in the fourth last year because it was also combined with the price increase we had a fairly heavy buy in on that and saw the impact in the third quarter and then the resulting hang over in the fourth.
But we're still offering that program.
We don’t think it will be as significant this year as it were last year when we are having a price increase.
Got it right in terms of the shift between quarters.
Yeah.
We expected to be and this year actually does look like more of a normalized pattern and we are seeing some of that with our shipments in the second quarter versus the third that are going to be close into consumption.
Thanks and very last thing.
This updated sort of ideal shelf set gold standard shelf set are there certain -- what are the certain timeframes in which your sales team is able to sort of get this sold in and more importantly that those shells would get reset either there are certain one or two time frames through the course of your fiscal year where you can really expect once they are sold in for them to start actually happening in store? Yeah most customers have their own timing.
So it's not a there is not a specific time across the country where that happens.
Some customers reset generally most customers who want to reset prior to the fall specifically in our category.
But we're cutting in new items in January and we're cutting in new items in June.
So it's hard to say that this is specific time for that.
But where we are and we're seeing progress in helping customers understand that this is a very very profitable category for them that our interests are really aligned and the more they sell premium branded products the higher the level of their profit.
And we bring consumers to be the shelf and that's the thing that we are working with them on it.
Thanks very much.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Eric.
I have two questions first top line related to focus on EMEA for a second is it -- I mean it sounds like the industrial side of things continues to go well there but it almost sounds like from your comments around the UK which is such an important market for you that things have gotten a little bit worse? Is that accurate and if so kind of what are the plans to try to improve the UK? Yeah the UK market is specifically tough market.
There has been a lot of press on the large customers there and some of their challenge is specific to what we're doing in our business.
It's very similar to what we're doing in the U.S.
with new products and with supporting our brands with advertising.
In the short term what we saw was a fair amount of competitive activity and a recipe mix category in the UK we're responding pretty aggressively with our own promotional plans.
All right and then to kind of switch over I think you've been calling for somewhat inflationary trends in your -- input cost base for a bit but can you update us on that is there any more concern? It seems like there is just generally a little more inflation than everybody expected.
And then related to that you took the price increase last fall I think in retrospect you said may be it wasn't the right thing to do or the right time.
And given all the competition even with input cost pressure are you unlikely to take pricing on the consumer side going into '15? Yeah we're not anticipating any near term pricing any new near term pricing in our consumer business at this point.
We may have some adjustments in our industrial business to reflect changes in commodity costs but we're not anticipating near term that we will be doing that.
There is some upward cost inflation specifically in commodities like pepper and vanilla and we're working with our CCI programs to help to try to offset those.
Obviously if it gets excessive then we'll readjust our thinking.
But certainly we're not anticipating anything before the end of 2014.
Okay and Gordon just remind me what inflation level are you assuming for the year again? We said it was in the low single digits 2% to 3%.
Okay.
I'll pass on thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Good morning.
Good morning Akshay.
So couple of questions just on the end demand and what you see as it relates to your consumer business because I think you get some good read through on what's happening with packaged food customers and then QSR.
So the first question in the U.S.
could you talk a little bit about the innovation pipeline for your packaged food customers as you see it? I think a little bit ago you had said that you’re pretty optimistic about that high price and it doesn’t seem to have played through.
So perhaps you could just give us your perspective on what’s happened there with the little bit of history as to why it hasn’t played through if I am correct about that.
And then the second question is on the state of demand or state of things in the QSR segment in China if you can help us to understand from your perspective where we are relative to all the issues that have taken place from a food security perspective.
So those are my two questions.
Thank you.
Yeah sure.
On U.S.
foods we are seeing a bit of a mix with our customer base.
Our snack customers are continuing to do pretty well and continuing to innovate and we’re seeing that reflected.
Our packaged food customers are struggling with core volume and part of the way that they are trying to overcome that is with new product innovation that we are working with them on.
Now so what we have was packaged foods or with our consumer food manufacturer customers so far in the U.S.
at least is relatively flat; snack are -- co-processed foods kind of down a little bit and new product not quite offsetting those.
We have a stronger innovation pipeline this year than we had at this time last year.
So we continue to have a good outlook on that obviously as customers adjust their thinking and focus more on promotional spending or on driving different core products they may change that.
Our innovation pipeline is stronger this year than last year in our U.S.
business.
In China what we are seeing is a recovery in QSR driven I think a lot by our customers having an increased frequency promotions and limited time offers to bring consumers back to the stores.
They’ve historically been pretty resilient and they are obviously up again some weaker comparisons from last year.
But we are encouraged by what we are seeing with both new product activity in China as well as the increased food traffic that they are getting to the stores and we are seeing a renewed confidence in new store openings there as well.
So we are optimistic on the outlook there.
And just on India if I can.
So can you I know it a smallish percentage of your overall business but it’s one of those rare things where you acquire business and it doesn’t grow as well as you plan.
So can you just give us a sense of where we are in that process? And if and when the distribution gains will again start to take effect because the way I understand what’s going on is - you have bought the business there’s has been some obviously commodity related inflation that you are passing on and you don’t have -- or your distribution gains have sort of paused for now and then you’re also recalibrating your product mix right.
I mean the whole idea there is to do recipe mixes and other things such as that under the McCormick brand using this distribution.
So just give us a longer term sort of where are we in the journey with this acquisition and your expectations there? Yeah we think India is certainly a longer term play.
We’ve made good progress in stabilizing our supply chain and continuing to drive distribution obviously the significant inflation we’ve seen in the price of Basmati rice has impacted our volumes there.
We’ve again taken the philosophy that we generally take in a market like this that we pay as we go.
So as the business earns its ability to invest then we’ll make the investment.
So we are focused now on driving profitability in the business and we’ll -- and we are also introducing new products but more on driving the profitability of the business.
We still believe as India develops in modern trade as the infrastructure develops so that would be a very good market for us.
It’s taken a little more time than we anticipated as we went into it.
Perfect thank you.
I’ll pass it on.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
In looking at your guidance you are talking about an incremental brand marketing spend of at least $25 million.
Gordon did I hear you say $11 million of that increase was in the first half already? That's correct.
Okay now does that $25 million include consumer promotion activity or is it strictly more what we would call advertising? The bulk of it is weighted more towards consumer facing advertising.
Any traditional promotional around price et cetera would be between gross and net.
So that's primarily that is -- that's not primarily -- that is consumer facing increases.
So promotion expenditures would be in addition to it?  Yes that would be in addition.
And how do you expect that to track this year the promotion? From a year-over-year basis not too differently but as you heard in my remarks and some of Alan's remarks some of it is weighted a bit more towards the back half of the year.
All right thank you.
Hey thanks for the follow up.
I don’t think anyone had asked this yet so forgive me if they had.
But Alan you talked a little bit about working with customers to get price gap right between branded and private label.
I am just curious whether this gap had grown to an unusually wide level and you are just sort of getting back to normal or whether the gap that historically existed may be didn't function as effectively as it used to right? So curious if it's going to narrow to a range that’s smaller than usual or just sort of get back to normal and maybe I am not [inaudible] just curious how you think about that? That’s actually a really good question.
The gap itself hasn't changed that much.
I mean it does over periods where we tend to lead with pricing and private label takes a little bit longer to catch up and as do our competitors.
So we tend to see a three to six months gap in that.
The impact that we're dealing with right now is more where some customers have chosen to take price threshold movement not necessarily a percentage gap but more price threshold.
So for instance they may have crossed from 297 to 309 which is a more significant impact for customers.
So we're working to also get price points right so that we maximize the volume and the profit for the customers.
The percentage gaps haven't changed that much over the last seven years.
They do from time to time but not -- it's not anymore significant.
In fact what we've seen in the most recent periods is a little more aggressive pricing on private labels than we've seen on the brand.
So by aggressive I mean the price gaps had narrowed a little more.
Great thanks very much.
Thanks Ken.
All right.
Thank everyone for your questions and for participating in today's call.
As I wrap-up I’d would like to recognize Chuck Langmead President of our Global Industrial Business.
As previously announced Chuck's retiring at the end of June following 38 years at McCormick.
Under his leadership annual sales of our industrial business have exceeded $1.5 billion and profits are up nearly 40% in the last five years.
I want to thank Chuck for his service his dedication and his contributions and I wish him all the best.
McCormick's 2014 fiscal year is on track to be a record year in sales and profits.
Our strategic imperatives around people growth and performance are driving sales delivering CCI cost savings and generating higher profit and strong cash flow.
We bring the joy of flavor to everyday at McCormick and we believe that we're well positioned for future success.
Thank you.
Thanks Alan.
I would also like to thank those on this morning's call.
Through July 10th a replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 877-660-6853 and the conference ID number is 13581413.
You could also listen to a replay on our website later today.
And if you have any additional questions regarding today's information you can reach us at 410-771-7244.
This concludes this morning’s call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Alan you mentioned on the call that I think you had flowed through new pricing structures for the category in about half of the retailers or at least half of the retailers had accepted it.
Can you give us a sense of what that means for your pricing in 2015? I imagine it's a positive but how is it a positive? Does it improve the relative pricing that you have versus competition? And what does it mean to your top line for U.S.
consumer next year? Yes what we’re talking about is actual retail pricing where we're analyzing the category looking at all the stuff that's there and getting to the optimum price level for us and our competition.
We're looking at things like margin parity so that we make sure that the retail margins for our products are similar to the retail margins for other people.
In some cases it means raising the price -- the retail prices of some of our competition.
The net impact of what that's doing and also one thing I'll also make a point is getting sharper price points on some of the more price sensitive items from our standpoint.
The net impact of that is its closing price gaps and we see that as very positive.
Okay and then a follow-up regarding China.
I remember last quarter I think your QSR business had shown some signs of improvement and now you're saying that you're cautious on fourth quarter.
What has changed to change your tone? Is there something specific? Well as we went into last quarter we were seeing increased foot traffic and some momentum in that business and then as you've probably seen from our QSR customers report of a supply issue which has impacted foot traffic again.
We still see that business as being pretty resilient over time and the Chinese consumers tend to come back but when they have these well publicized quality issues in the store it erodes confidence and impacts short term traffic and we're seeing some of that like our customers have reported.
Can I ask about the U.S.
Consumer business? Over the past year you've had a bit of market share encroachment from private label and also from some smaller brands.
Where are you in reversing those trends and how confident are you that the share trends will continue to be fairly decent? Thank you.
We're seeing some of the impact of the efforts that we've made between a combination of our new products our category management activities and frankly some of those price gaps being closed.
So what we've actually seen in the more recent periods and actually for the year private label share in spices has not grown in the U.S.
It's been pretty flat and in more recent periods we've seen private label share flattening and actually declining a little bit.
The second piece of that is we've actually grown share in the Recipe Mix category.
We're up about a share point and so we’re seeing some of that.
The share erosion that we've seen has declined somewhat.
We were last year looking at about a 1.5 of share now it's less than a share point and we're continuing to see momentum.
So we're pleased that we have the right plans and the right kinds of activities that are going to continue to build that back.
I'd also remind you that we have a healthy growing category.
So we have not seen the growth rates of category level off at all and so we're participating in good categories both in Recipe Mixes and Spices and Seasonings.
And then as a quick follow-up on the -- you mentioned acquisitions being on the radar screen.
Are you continuing to look at fairly small bolt-on acquisitions mainly in emerging markets or has your thinking changed on that? Thank you and I'll pass it on.
We are open and evaluate larger acquisitions.
But the ones that we've had the most success with have been the tuck-in acquisitions that we know how to manage largely in emerging markets although we have some more developed market candidates as well.
To be totally honest when I looked at the press release this morning I thought wow this looks fantastic.
Then as I get reading it further guys it seems more confusing.
So a couple of questions here the tax-rate you spent a long time on it but I still don't think I came away with maybe the most important issue here.
Is this a sustainable rate for many years to go? It felt like last year when you gave the initial guidance there was this massive increase in the tax-rate.
It was a huge headwind and it was really a dampening factor on the outlook this year but lo and behold here we are and gosh it's nowhere near that.
So the first question is what do we do with the tax-rate long term and how do you put some confidence around it? The best estimate I would have on a go-forward basis for the tax-rate and I have to put two caveats around this because it's one of the factors that impacted the volatility you've obviously described.
Based on current legislation and business mix the rate that we provided for you for the fourth quarter of 28% would be a reasonable rate.
Now I appreciate the significant change during the course of the year that significant change we spoke about is primarily a factor of the legislative environment and as we started the year we had rules coming out of France that we thought were going to be a negative impact on that tax-rate and that was going to be a sustainable higher rate until the final regulations were published this quarter and we were able to interpret them more clearly and get advisory input on it and that became one of the biggest factors in the reversal of that outlook for the quarter.
So I would say simply at the moment on current business mix and current legislation that 28 is probably a good number but again it's a volatile legislative environment and I don't know what different countries or different legislators are going to do as we proceed.
Following on this just wanted to ask about when you take down your operating profit guidance for the year the growth guidance does this affect management incentive comp and if so how much?  We have a mix in our yearly incentive comp that's based partially on EPS and so there's a positive impact to that although we look at discrete items and exclude those and the other part is on what we term as -- we call it McCormick profit but it's a proxy for economic profit which is operating income with a charge for working capital.
So it will impact our management incentive comp in a way in a bit.
No what I'm really getting after right there guys is when we think to ’15 do we think that management comp kind of comes down this year because of the lower op profits and then rebounds next year? And it's a factor affecting the algorithm? Or is that -- I'm just running too -- trying to be too specific on something? Yes that’s pretty specific but to recall last year a big part of -- because of our results our bonuses were impacted negatively and so we're building some of those back as we perform a little better.
Last little detail.
FX in the fourth quarter you said for the full year it doesn't matter but rates have gone crazy.
Can you just give us some comment on your fourth quarter FX impact? Well certainly there is going to be downward pressure.
We haven't quantified the exact impact in the quarter but I would say we're definitely going to be experiencing downward pressure and that's incorporated in the full year guidance that we've given you.
Two questions first one just a clarification on what you said on pricing your pricing strategy in North America.
Can you just talk a little bit more about that? Because what if your competitors decide to lower their prices or keep their prices where they are while you're increasing your price points? How should we think about that risk? And so maybe you can just clear clarify what you said before because I was a bit confused on that and then I have a follow-up.
Yes just to be clear what we're doing is making pricing recommendations on the category.
We can't control what our competition does although I will say that what we've seen over history is when we lead in pricing and that's our pricing to the retailer it takes some time for our competition to follow because of our share position.
No other competitor is going to lead in pricing until we take pricing nobody else does and then they follow it gradually and we're seeing that impact now from last year's price increase just takes a little more time for the others to flow through.
If they choose to lower prices or promote heavily and that sort of thing then we'll adapt and respond like we always do.
But just to follow-up so the need for this arises from your analysis of the category relative to other categories and what's the general message that you're sending out to retailers that prices need to be higher or lower or it's a mixed bag? It's a mixed bag and frankly what we're trying to do is help them as they analyze the category with competitive prices relative to their competition and looking at the margins they're taking on McCormick items versus competitive items.
Okay and just a follow-up on your guidance for 4Q.
You mentioned the factors that are impacting EBIT growth to be lower now.
I'm not clear as to which ones really change right? So it seems like the mix impact is pretty significant on EBIT but is that because you're expecting lower consumer growth now than you did before or higher international sales growth? I mean it's not clear which one of those changed to cause that.
We're reflecting certainly what we've seen on the international markets and its impact on the margins year-to-date and what we anticipate on a go-forward basis into the quarter.
So as we said in the call we're maintaining the sales guidance but we're acknowledging that a lot of the sales growth year-to-date has come from the international growth and that's certainly impacted the margin structure and that's part of it.
It's also acknowledging that we're investing behind our brands and we're having confidence in the programs that we have in place.
We're not going to be pulling back on any of those programs.
In fact we're leaning into those in the fourth quarter Alan described them to you.
So that's a significant increase in Q4 which certainly is going to have an impact near term on the profit but we think it's the right thing long term for the category.
And then the caution that we talked about in China.
Right right -- in the industrial segment.
I just had two questions for you and I'm sorry to ask another follow-up on this one.
But I just want to be clear on the pricing recommendations that you're changing.
Is there any direct benefit to you from these price changes? Is it more about getting the prices right to the consumer at retail? More about getting the prices right to the consumer at retail.
Okay.
That's what I figured but I wanted to make sure it was clear.
It was a little confusing.
Thank you.
If I could ask about the U.S.
consumer performance this quarter given you had this 5% drag roughly from shipment changes year-over-year would it be fair to say your underlying growth this quarter in U.S.
consumer was around 4% just given the performance that was reported versus the adjustments that came through from the shipment planning.
Yes that's right.
Okay.
That does suggest an improvement in the business that's good.
And then one final question if I could maybe to Gordon on the gross margin.
So you had CCI savings coming through.
I guess you had some pricing as well offsetting cost inflation.
So I'm just -- gross margin was softer than what I expected.
Is that more about the business mix shift or are there any other factors we should be aware of in terms of offsetting inflation or CCI savings that kind of thing.
It's geographic and segment mix.
Okay.
Do you know how much that was in terms of a factor in the quarter on the gross margin? I don't have that quantified in front of me right now but it would be a significant factor.
I was curious about the Skillet Sauces the launch of Skillet Sauces.
Obviously that has been a highly competitive category and one in which several other packaged food firms have entered.
And you talked to the fact that the Spices and Seasonings category growth rates overall remain healthy.
I was wondering -- obviously skillet sauces moves you further into that center of the store packaged food type space.
And so I was wondering if you could speak to how your product is differentiated and how you expect to compete in that category.
The products that we've launched have been more instead of being more premium; have been more focused on everyday classics with a twist and so effectively they're liquid versions of our more popular dry seasoning mixes and so we think that distinguishes us.
We've obviously as everything that we do we test with great flavors.
So we believe that's going to deliver and just to remind you we're in the liquid category already with our Lawry's wet marinades.
So while this is a new launch for us and a new category that has been growing we believe it will help with the category growth rate.
We're not going head to head with the stuff that's already out there.
We've got a different mix of products.
And then I was just wondering if you could speak a little bit more to the plans for the holiday in terms of how you're maybe positioning your products if you're positioning I guess your products any differently given the importance of the holiday season in terms of your overall results.
I wouldn't say we're necessarily positioning them differently.
But we are -- as we always are very active with display activity to make sure that the stores have the product that they need as the consumers are shopping for the holiday meals.
We are continuing to increase our advertising and marketing support behind the products as we go into the fourth quarter and we're working with retailers to make sure to get those displays up and in the right place so that consumers can find them.
So when you communicate this mixed bag of pricing with retailers are there any units for which you're actually recommending price should go up? I would say generally no but there are certainly at least in terms of our products we're looking at what the right level of pricing to hit the -- for the consumer is and we're managing gaps.
And you mentioned you've done a good job maintaining that -- I should say stopping any kind of encroachment in private label share.
When you go through the data with retailers is there a really big difference? Is it the big difference in velocity between your products and private label that makes it compelling for the retailers? Is that what you lead with? Or is it a difference in absolute dollar margin to the retailer? What is the bigger factor of those two? Because I know it's a category that you have a unique level of dialogue and frankly control over given your manufacturing on both sides private label and branded compared to some other food categories.
Yes it's more helping the retailer maximize their dollar profit and get the right margin mix for the items and remember in our category it's a fairly small limited number of items that are duplicated across all the brands.
So there is about 15 to 20 items which are duplicated from opening price point private label and then all the competitive brands that actually matter.
And so those we're really working on getting the pricing right.
The broad array of the stuff we offer are the things that are unique to certain times of the year like poultry seasoning and sage at Thanksgiving and some of the baking items at the holidays.
So it's really kind of managing those things that aren't necessarily -- that are duplicated so we get the pricing right and all the things that aren't duplicated making sure the availability is there.
I guess just one follow-up to that then.
How is it do you think -- why is it do you think that retailers maybe got their pricing a little bit out of whack on some of these products? Do they not understand the consumer? Did the consumer change? I guess any thoughts you had on that.
Well as we talked in some of the earlier calls we saw a lot of stuff that was coming in through either produce departments or through a DSD supplier that may not have been visible to the center store category managers and some of that is just bringing that to their attention because we're seeing lots of stuff that has just found their way in and we see it sometimes.
And couple of the selling stores (indiscernible) is to help them understand the impact on their inventory levels for stuff that's not necessarily adding to category growth.
So we're kind of telling the whole category story and that's the role that we can play given our position.
Couple of questions why don't we start out with the advertising spend.
It seems like during the year it's kind of been deferred each quarter to meet up with what your expectation was initially for the full year.
So was there something about the product lineup or the landscape that's made so much of the advertising spend kind of fall into the fourth quarter? Well typically the fourth quarter is where we spend the heaviest and some of that spend is to support new products and so we've lined up the actual spend with the distribution level of the new products.
So there is a piece to that that we've managed but by and large -- because we do in the U.S.
business and to a lesser extent in our other developed markets and awful lot of our sales are skewed towards fourth quarter.
And the fourth quarter is when we have our highest returns on investment for advertising.
Okay.
Second you talked pretty I guess aggressively about the balance sheet and the ability to look for M&amp;A.
I know you've been very kind of EVA or economic profit focused as opposed to kind of the rest of the world that doesn't seem to even care about that anymore.
It seems like it's all about EPS accretion but -- how are you seeing multiples in your ability to drive economic profit again in that context? Yes that's always the balance and we've been pretty disciplined.
Through the years we continue to be pretty disciplined on making sure that we can more than pay back the cost of capital over time for the deals that we make.
Certainly that means that in highly contested deals we get bypassed in some cases.
But we've been pretty disciplined.
We know what our targets are.
We are willing to pay the prices we need to pay but we also make sure that we know how to get the returns.
And we have as you well know a pretty good track record on generating the value that we promise.
Okay and then last question I guess is it seems like maybe its 24 hour news these days but it seems like the world is -- I don't know aflame in every region and we don't get great views on your input costs.
I think Alan you had mentioned to me at one point some concern over pepper cost rising.
Are you seeing pressure on some of your crops and kind of how does that figure into what sounds like basically lower prices at retail for the spice category led by your discussions? We are seeing some pressure specifically on pepper and we're evaluating our plans as we go into next year.
We're not making any changes to this year but we're evaluating how to respond to that for next year.
But we're certainly seeing some upward pressure.
It's pretty volatile world with everything from political unrest to some uncertain weather and -- but that's the kind of thing that we've always dealt with.
But I will say that we're currently evaluating and getting our budgets ready for 2015 and making decisions on how we're going to approach it what we do see as some input cost pressure.
Just last follow-up but I think it's an important issue.
So I kind of read your comments about the category management work with the retailers as essentially being lower price points.
If you have somewhat inflationary pressure you didn't comment about vanilla or cinnamon but does that -- do you have additional kind of productivity savings that can kind of act as an offset to all that looking into next year which is kind of sounds like it's more relevant to next year in any case.
Yes and we are continuing to look at and beef up our CCI programs and looking at other ways to help offset some of that inflation and to make sure that we stay within the right gaps that consumers are going to be able to buy our products.
Are you able from an antitrust perspective to look at Spice and Seasonings acquisitions domestically anymore or do you feel more comfortable looking outside that category? We generally are looking more broadly at adjacent categories in the U.S.
market.
And I wouldn't say never that we couldn't but I will say that most of our targets in the U.S.
market are adjacent categories not directly Spice and Seasonings.
I want to thank everybody for your questions and for being on the call.
We recognize that our financial results this quarter were a bit complex and with the tax-rate variance the shift in sales and special charges.
Putting these aside we want to leave you with a few takeaways; we're making steady progress to improve the results of our U.S.
Consumer business.
We're driving increased sales and profits in a number of our international markets and we continue to invest in our growth and fuel these investments with above target CCI cost savings.
This performance has us on track for record sales profit and cash flow in 2014.
Throughout McCormick we're executing against our plans that have us well positioned for the future.
Thanks for your time and attention today.
Thank you Alan.
I would also like to add my thanks to those who joined us this morning.
(Operator Instructions).
You can also listen to the replay on our website later today.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you.
We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your question.
So can I just turn to the U.S.
consumer business there seems to be a bit of confusion about the pricing strategy there and what we’re seeing in the Nielsen data versus the price increase I think you mentioned this time around.
We’re seeing fairly sharp reductions in price per pound to the tune of about a mid single-digit rate some of that might be negative mix which I think you mentioned but we’re also just kind of curious about what is actually happening there not just in the quarter but as we look out to 2015 as you take that next price increase.
Are you worried about further share losses to some of those smaller brands and are you confident that the innovation that you’ve got in place is going to allow you to drive that mid single-digit top-line growth overall? Thank you.
Sure there is a couple of things going on there.
To first reiterate we’ve made no changes in list prices in our U.S.
business.
We increased prices at the end of 2013 and in 2014 we've made no changes in list prices.
So a couple of things were happening one is what we've seen is that more of our promotional spend in 2014 ended up in the second half of the year.
The second is there is a sizable controlled label which is an extreme value product which we've had in the market with one customer for a long period of time that was pretty heavily promoted in the second half of the year and it shows up as a McCormick brand and it is a brand that we own in the data and so that is driving some of it.
And then in another case we actually took the number of units in our recipe inspirations from six spices in the line to three and reduced the price of that offering so there is a good bit going on there.
We don't plan any price increases at this point in our U.S.
consumer business.
We're dealing with some commodity inflation with our cost reduction activities and as you saw being more aggressive on that but we expect to see more stable pricing in our U.S.
business.
Now we are taking pricing in our industrial businesses to help offset some of the commodity increases and in some of the other markets but in our U.S.
business our plan is to hold pricing more stable.
Can I just follow-up quickly on that control brand do you expect that intense promotional activity to continue as we go into 2015 and then I will pass it on? Thank you.
We don't expect it to continue at the level that it has in the second half of the year.
I wanted to dig in on the consumer volume side because I was looking at this quarter and I know there was a sort of a seasonal shift last year but the comparison even for the half as a whole got was relatively easy and the fourth quarter versus third quarter was easier.
So I guess my first question on that is did these sort of volume numbers particularly in the U.S.
consumer and Asia-Pac consumer meet your expectations going into the quarter? And secondly I guess as we go into next year you have expressed confidence about sort of a comeback in that top-line like what gives you that confidence within consumer what regions make you feel like presumably that’s going to be -- I think that sales growth is mostly volume driven why there would be that sort of inflection point? Thank you.
A couple of things in the U.S.
business we did see a better momentum in the second half of the year than we had in the first half to the year and that's a combination of getting traction with some of our category management efforts as well as some of the new products kicking in which we're pleased to see.
We actually grew share in recipe mixes that's driving some of the momentum there.
And then the number of our markets around the world in France for instance we grew share both in spices and seasonings as well as in desserts and so we're pleased with the momentum we have there.
UK is a little bit of a tougher competitive market and in China even without the acquisition that acquisition far exceeded expectations but our consumer business in China has continued to grow at double-digit so we feel pretty good about that.
The key effort and the thing that we have to do in order to make this plan is really to get core growth in our U.S.
business and in spices and seasonings and that's where a lot of the effort is in this year both in terms of category management as well as innovation.
So I am interested just to follow-up on that you felt better versus your plan in the second half versus the first half and I know the headline numbers were better but there is a significant -- I mean the first half of '13 and even if we go back to first half of '12 was stronger at least in U.S.
consumer is a lot stronger but you are saying versus your plans second half was stronger than first? I didn't say versus our plan I said versus the actuals certainly we're -- we believe we have got a lot of work to do still in our U.S.
business and we're encouraged by what we saw in the second half but we still believe we've got a lot of work to do.
A kind of a follow-up to Jon's question your guidance for 4 to 6 sales growth and organically the Company hasn't done better than 2 for the last two years.
So I guess you are right Alan I mean you need to get big market share gains in order to achieve this plan and it has to come in from the U.S.
Can you give us an update on how many of your customers have adopted this category management strategy that you have rolled out I think last quarter you said that you were targeting 60% of the ACV you thought you were half way there have you made any progress in that regard? And then also have there been any losses in that kind of metric have there been any customers who have moved further towards private label? I wouldn't say we've seen and actually what we've seen in the recent periods is that private label has actually declined a bit and the traction has come from some of the smaller brands but really small brands.
And I would say that we're continuing to tell that story I don’t have a number in terms of is it -- and we are now at 70% of ACV but what I would say is we’re continuing to gain traction with the story to get sharper price points on the shelf again that sharper price points not because we’ve taken reduction but because we’ve applied trade promotions more tactically and because we’re working with the customers to make sure we have the right mix of pricing on the shelf.
We’re continuing to see the category fragment there is lots of competition and we’re continuing to work to build our share of shelf along with our share of voice in advertising.
The only thing I would add Rob this is Gordon is in the discussion we talked about healthy category growth rate.
So it's not even necessarily true that we’ve got to have large market share gains we just need to continue to grow with category growth rates and we hit those numbers.
But the category you said is growing about 1% right now in the U.S.? No about 3%.
We said overall the category on a global basis is going to be growing in mid single-digits.
Okay so 3% in the U.S.
is the expectation? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then one follow-up just I think you mentioned a value brand that you control and is showing up in the Nielsen data as being very heavily promoted but what caused that heavy promotion on that brand was it the retailers doing it and you do have any control in the future over whether they continue to do that? It can’t be helpful to your core McCormick business when that happens.
Yes it was a specific retailer strategy that implemented and we’re working with them on making sure that we’re maximizing the category.
Hi just had a question for if I could in relation to the cost inflation coming through this year you gave some of the inputs where that’s going through pepper being about half of the increase that would cut across both consumer and industrial.
I think you said you're not going to take some pricing in U.S.
consumer so should we expect the balance of 2% pricing across the remaining divisions I mean Europe consumer Asia consumer as well as the industrial business or is there one division that’s more heavily influenced by that? Now it's going to be pretty balance between the industrial and consumer segments and given the fact that we’re not taking it in the U.S.
you’ll see pricing elsewhere in the world and the other markets on the consumer side.
Okay.
And then just to go back to the question Alexia asked about the promotional spending being higher at least in the data that we see.
I know there were some timing elements both to prior year and to this year should we expect any incremental promotional spending to continue? And I guess if I could ask the related question if you look at your spending this quarter on marketing being up around $5 million I think you’ve been talking something closer to 11 million or more was there any shift more so to promotion versus to advertising and would that continue in '15? No we expect - we’re going to continue part of our promotion is volume driven and so that of what you saw a little bit was a reduction in volume versus expectation so we didn’t get the volume hit so we didn’t take the spending.
But we’re not expecting a change in how we balance it.
In fact what we’re trying to do is drive more efficient promotion spending than we have.
And I’d just point out for fiscal year '14 the advertising component of the increase was the vast majority.
We were up 15 million year-on-year on an advertising basis.
So a lot of the activity is still continuing to drive innovation in the brand equity.
It was less than expected in the fourth quarter though is that correct is there any change to your views on advertising in the quarter? No we pretty much around the advertising campaigns that we’re planned we execute it against those to Alan’s point some of the more volume-related promotional events fell out of the quarter but the advertising programs were left intact.
Hey thanks for the question and Lawrence congratulations on a promotion.
Thank you.
So Alan you talked about in the U.S.
getting prices on shelf more in line with where you think is ideal for the category.
And I think you’ve touched on this a little bit but are we where we need to be or do you think customers still need to make some adjustments either up or down to kind of get an ideal revenue and profit dollar point at this point? No there is still work to do on the shelf and some of it is driven by the fact that there is an awful lot of value priced product.
That isn’t necessarily doing anything for the category it’s creating more fragmentation and so what we want to do is make sure that we are telling the story that we’re giving consumers what they are looking for and that we’re getting our absolute price points to the level that makes the most sense.
Okay.
And then following up is the M&amp;A environment is it a bit more challenging than usual for you I maybe wrong but I can’t recall McCormick really talking this aggressively about share buybacks in the past.
And I think usually your target is 1% to 2% this year it’s 2 you're being vocal about returning cash to shareholders.
So I guess I am just wondering are you maybe suggesting that alternate uses of cash are not as attractive at the moment or am I I guess just reading too much into that? No I would say that we do have a very active pipeline and we're working hard as we always do on acquisitions just like we always have when we don't have an acquisition eminent we will continue our share buyback and if it's a small acquisition we will continue it but if it's a larger one we may curtail it for a bit but we're not signaling anything at all with that we've got some very attractive acquisition candidates that we're continuing to work on.
I guess I want to follow-up on the inflation question.
Gordon you highlighted that material cost inflation was up I guess mid single-digit and I just assume you are talking about the pure raw spices and seasonings but it would seem that there is a lot of other things that are actually beneficial whether it's just pure energy or derivatives such as like the bottles and the packaging.
So when you look at I guess overall inflation for fiscal '15 what's your expectation? Well just to remind the Group of 80% of our cost of goods sold is raw and packaging so it's an overwhelming factor as we -- relates to our overall cost structure.
So the mid single-digit really is the driver on our margin.
There will be obviously some benefit in freight rates we classify that more down in SG&amp;A but it's not going to material enough to really offset what approximates $100 million increase in our raw material cost.
So I wouldn't -- and that's why we're leaning heavily into our old CCI programs to try and help offset all this.
Okay.
And then I guess the -- it sounds like at this point Alan that you are very reluctant you are willing to take some pricing on the back of that inflation whether it's a consumer outside the U.S.
but there is some industrial pass-through I guess at what point in the U.S.
do you feel that you need to we don't really have a lot of visibility into some of those kind of more esoteric crops I mean is pepper -- I guess is the bias on pepper and vanilla and some of these other things up and that we have to worry about you taking pricing I just don’t have a lot of visibility into those crops? Well it's more around what drives the elasticity of our volumes.
And so typically what we've been able to do is pass-through the commodity inflation but because we've seen such extreme volatility and especially with pepper that’s the one drives McCormick more than anything else over the last five years it's up by a factor of five.
And so we feel like we're getting to a price point where it's pretty stretched and so we're looking at other tools to try to offset that and it's largely behind our cost reduction at this point.
Now we don't think that we aren't going to be able to take pricing forever and ever but where we're at this point with the category and the competition is we feel like it's prudent that we're not taking pricing at this point.
Okay.
And then last quarter on the U.S.
retail strategy I think in the past you had alluded to some of the competition that had made gains they were finding space in other parts of the store such as like the produce aisle is part of your strategy and are you having success in kind of getting your items out of the or in addition to the center of the store but getting placement in other areas and is that one of the reasons why you think you can maintain or recover share in fiscal '15? We're getting products off this -- not just in the spice set but into other parts of the store where we have found competition and I will ask Lawrence to kind of weigh in a little bit on this.
Just a couple of questions the first question I guess is just Q4 I know in Q3 you gave down the operating profit income for the year but then you said you missed the original guidance for the year and that was partially because of just a mix shift and faster growing in some of your markets and the margin differential in both et cetera.
But then what was the real the miss in Q4 because it seems like in Q4 you grew consumer more quickly than industrial and within consumer you grew the Americas more quickly than what I would pursue to be your lower margin international business.
So then -- and you also seemed as if you also pulled back a bit relative to reach the expectations that we had on the marketing side.
So I am just trying to bridge the gap between expectation in Q3 for the year for operating profit growth and then what you actually reported? Yes as we said in the remarks we’re very pleased with the progress we made in the U.S.
consumer business but it was not up to the expectation we had in thinking when we gave you the guidance at the end of Q3.
And obviously that’s a big profit generator in Q4 and as a result that was one of the main factors impacting the results versus what we were guiding to.
And then the second question is just I know in your Q3 call and I may have missed it.
[Technical Difficulty] I just said on the Q3 call you had mentioned ACV or there was an acceptance rate of the new pricing program or the new strategic dynamics so to speak for the business and it seems like we’re only just in the Americas from the retailers.
And I guess the one question I just had was what is the push back from the ones that haven’t accepted it what’s the reluctance for not accepting the new program? Some of it’s just timing and our programs and our selling proposition is really different in the fourth quarter than it is the rest of the year because it's so promotionally driven and making sure that we have the holiday execution.
And so we’re back in with that whole category management discussion.
Now the push back hasn’t been aggressive because we’ve a pretty rational story to tell it's more as Lawrence said getting the category managers to understand where things are eroding in other departments not necessarily their cost centers.
And then just I mean it's a question I am not sure again if you mentioned on the call but was there a I guess two targets one on gross margin for fiscal '15 and then two was there a target for incremental marketing spend? Thank you.
We did not provide any gross margin targets and the incremental marketing target is at least a 5% increase year-over-year.
My question is on cost savings obviously on the CCI side you’ve done a great job and you have aggressive targets for '15 and I know in the past you’ve done some studies on your SG&amp;A as well because optically it looks pretty high relative to the average for the industry.
Can you talk about just the cost savings opportunity that lies perhaps potentially in the SG&amp;A line because given the current environment obviously there is a lot of focus on cost savings in general? Thank you.
Sure we recognize the opportunity that lies there I mean some of the drivers on the line in general is our global scale which adds complexity and we have joint ventures below the line which require management resources.
So those are factors we do want to remind people that require management resources and don’t end up in a percentage in net sales because it's all below the line.
But having said that we continue to look at how we can become more efficient as well as effective through a faster streamlining of our decisions and more consolidation of back offices.
In the more recent activities you are well aware of what we talked about for our European organization last year that is part of the guidance that we have this year as we continue into a shared service environment there as well as more recently announced North American actions that align more effectively under the structure that we have now which again results in efficiencies in our decision making there.
So it's a balancing act to make sure that we are being aggressive on that line but at the same time we are growing categories and we want to make sure we’re putting proper resources behind the growth that these categories enjoy.
That’s helpful just one follow-up.
Can you give us an update on India and where you stand with that acquisition and the plans that you had in place? Yes we’re building our supply chain capabilities there we’ve introduced some of the value-added products and we’re seeing those getting traction in the marketplace.
Obviously we’d like to see progress faster but we’re doing the things that we laid out when we made the acquisition and feel like we can see a positive path forward… I am sorry actually are you there? I am there yes.
Sorry somehow our phone disconnected so I am not sure how much of my answer you got.
What I was saying you is we believe that India is a long-term investment and a long-term growth engine for McCormick.
We’d like to see progress faster but we've done the things that we laid out in the acquisition which is moving the more value-added products getting our supply chain and our supply base in good order to be able to grow the business and service the customers but we're not pleased with the progress and we believe that we can do better there.
I wanted to ask a little bit more I know this has been talked about quite a lot but in the United States you have seen a 70 basis point share loss in the spice category but more broadly going back over the last four years of our new AOC plus the Nielsen data it’s a 330 basis point decline in market share for McCormick.
The question is when I see share losses that large and ongoing share losses there is just a concern that fundamentally these price gaps really need to be put into a different place and that you should take a price decline.
Can you respond it out and how do you think about these share losses am I too concerned about this multi-year stretch of share losses? No we're concerned as well and that's why we're taking the actions that we are and we feel like we're doing a lot of the right kinds of things we're driving innovation we're talking to customers we're talking to consumers and so we take this very seriously.
We're in a growing category and through history we've always been the driver of growth in the category and we expect that we're going to do that.
But we're not happy with the performance that we've had the last couple of years and we're doing things differently.
Maybe just a final question is that on the long-term guidance the 9% to 11% so including the 2015 expectations that you laid out you will have three straight years of missing the long-term EPS of 9 to 11 compounded rate in these three year period it would be about 5.5% I think you said in your prepared script the five year historical number was 8%.
Why not reduce the long-term guidance do you give much thought of that is the long-term guidance just kind of a flag pole out there or how hardcore are you about that stuff? What we really do is focus on what we need to do in the current year and as you know it's been pretty volatile.
And as we think about where we're very long-term we believe that this business should generate that kind of growth.
We should be able to do the sales growth that we talk about with an acquisition or with a steady stream of acquisitions.
Our acquisition record over the last couple of years has not been as consistent so we've had -- the acquisitions we've made have been good but we haven't done one every year as our long-term guidance would suggest.
The second thing is we've had so much volatility over the last five years in cost.
As I said earlier pepper is up 500% basically in the last five years and so we've had to deal with a lot of volatility.
And then the other pieces are the ups and downs of things like pension expense and those sorts of things.
What we're really focused on is making sure that we're running the businesses the right way that we're driving the category and driving growth to be able to perform that way.
So we do discuss the long-term goals we lay out plans that we believe will hit it and then we adjust year-on-year based on what's actually happening in our both our cost structure and with our customers.
I will say the two changes that I think you are seeing for McCormick right now is we're being more aggressive on cost because we recognize we have to do that and secondly we're being aggressive in the marketplace with our customers.
And in terms of bringing them ideas and bringing them lots of programs to help drive growth in the business.
I think bringing comfort to the shares situation is critical for your investor base it's very hard to see these kinds of share losses and then to know how the Company can achieve those long-term guidance targets and I just say that for maybe future calls.
I will leave it there and thank you for the comments.
Just to two quick questions on some of your smaller brands that you have talked that have been gaining share just so I am clear on it.
I guess first is what is the selling point or proposition do you think that they are using with retail customers to actually get this space on the shelf.
And then I guess more importantly once they have gotten some of that placement and we see that in the shares what’s the velocity of those items off of the shelf are they actually delivering anything for these retail customers at the end of the day or does that make your case ultimately easier once you have the data to be able to go back to your customers with? Yes the selling proposition is a couple one is either an ethnic brand that will appeal to a different customer.
I was in stores this weekend and walking through and I saw a Caribbean brand I saw more of a Southern ethnic style brand I saw Hispanic brands I saw things that had meat rings that are for the ring goes to the meat department as opposed to the core category.
So there is a lot of those sorts of things that people are using as selling propositions.
Typically the velocity of those individual SKUs or even of those brands is much lower than what we see at McCormick and so that’s a big part of our category story is to the trade you don’t necessarily need all this fragmentation.
There is certainly some there is a value consumer there is a premium consumer and then there is a consumer who is looking for things in the middle we serve all those needs and so what we’re trying to help them with is understanding the impact on their inventory levels and the velocity of what is actually happening in the category.
So we are telling that store but there is a lot of different stories as to why brands are finding their way into the market.
I guess just I guess from your perspective you believe you have enough of those options if you will for consumers and the retailers in terms of what they are looking for so it's some much easier as we all know to create brands now and create disruptive sorts of brands whether it's social media and all that and I guess wanted your perspective on do you feel you have enough of those sorts of options out there or do there need to some additional activity from you even if it's outside to sort of standard McCormick brand proposition? And we are doing some of that kind of thing as for instance with our bag brand seven of the 10 that grew share in the last period were bagged spices.
We have a bag brand with our Mojave Foods line and so we are using some of those as well as these controlled value players to as fighter brands to some of those.
So there is a strategy there but it’s not unique to the spice and seasonings category we’re seeing it across food.
Since there is no further questions I want to thank everybody who participated in today’s call.
Consumer demand for flavor remains strong our geographic presence and our product portfolio are aligned with the move towards healthy eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisines and bold tastes.
We’re investing in marketing and innovation to drive sales and in a competitive environment working with our customers to win at retail.
We’re stepping up our cost reduction activities and plan to use these savings to offset higher costs and invest in our brands.
In 2015 we expect to deliver solid sales growth higher profits and strong cash flow.
We look forward to reporting to you on our continued progress in the upcoming quarters.
Thanks Alan and I’d also like to thank those who joined us this morning.
Through February 11th a replay of today’s call can be accessed by dialing 877-660-6853.
The conference ID number is 13596246 and you can also listen to a replay on our Web site later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today’s information you can reach us at 410-771-7244.
That concludes this morning’s conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Can I come back to the US consumer business? I remember last quarter a negative mix effect of what was going on with season at Walmart was troublesome.
And also the smaller brands encroachment that started probably a little over a year ago was a problem.
It seems as though you might be coming through that a little bit better now; I just wanted to get the latest on what you are seeing on those fronts.
Thanks Alexia.
We are encouraged by the trends that we’re seeing.
We still have a lot of work to do.
There's still a pretty fragmented category and merchandising support for a number brands continues but we’re encouraged by the progress that we are seeing.
So on both sides of the small brands and the control brands as well.
Yes.
We feel like our stories are gaining some traction but we know it's going to be a fair bit of time to really see all that come through.
And then just switching to China.
I seem to remember that you were talking about how you were tapping into – this is the industrial business you were tapping into local restaurant chains as an avenue for growth because some of the big American restaurant chains were having so much trouble.
Where are you on that and do you see sort of fairly sustainable growth in that area from here? I am going to ask Lawrence to take that one.
Hi Alexia we are continuing to make progress with the local Chinese customers but I will say that in this quarter the biggest part of our performance has been new product wins export from China and progress in the recovery of the Western quick service restaurants which are beginning to see foot traffic improve.
So two questions if I could.
One of the comments I think Gordon in relation to product mix seemed like it was pretty positive across the business.
If I heard correctly for the consumer division I believe you said mix was a negative for profit.
I just want to make sure I heard that properly and want to understand the dynamic there if I could please on the consumer division in particular.
I will start with total company.
On a total company basis product mix was neutral to our results.
The gross margin impact was driven as I said by the increased raw material cost and the timing of our savings programs coming in and our pricing actions.
On the consumer division the raw material cost increase was still the primary story although there was a slight negative product mix as well within consumer but this -- again the bigger story on the quarter for both segments was the raw material cost increases.
And then also just a question if I could on the US consumer side and Alan you’re discussing the gourmet relaunch and how that’s progressing that it’s allowing you to – I don’t know to say this way to box out some of the smaller competitors and try and have a better selling story for the retailers.
I guess I want to understand – are you still seeing competitions at lower end of the category and how is gourmet helping sort of address that challenge for the business? Yes.
We’re still seeing competition at the value segment as well.
And as we segment consumers there is a gourmet consumer who really cares about the products that they put in their food and understand the difference and origins in spices and so that's what we’re targeting with the gourmet consumers.
So it's not necessarily helping on the value end.
The work that we’re doing at retail on price thresholds and absolute price points are where we’re combating value side.
And I guess just to follow on that the competition from some of the smaller competitors that’s mostly been on the value side less so on the premium or gourmet side is that correct? No we’ve seen a fair bit of competition on the premium side as well.
Alan I wanted to dig in a little bit into domestic pricing for consumers.
If we look at Nielsen data and your price per unit at the retail level has been slipping but it’s the opposite at the wholesale level.
You’ve talked about your efforts to convince retailers to sort of get their on-shelf prices right.
I will admit I was skeptical if this could be done without I guess wholesale prices dropping first.
But it seems to be happening.
So can you talk a little bit about first is that accurate? And second what’s really making that dynamic which isn’t easy to pull off successful? We’re still seeing the dynamic with the mix because of some value products that we continue to supply and we expect that that's going to continue.
But what we are doing is showing a category profitability story on key items that – where prices are pretty sensitive and working with the customers on getting those prices right.
It is a kind of a store by store and customer by customer negotiation but we have a very compelling category story which is what we’re outselling.
Isn’t the implication that the retailers are giving up some margin which is never an easy thing to get them to do? Well in some cases it’s making sure that they have the prices right to compete in their marketplace because their competition with other retailers has them a little bit out of whack.
So that’s part of the story.
The other is just reapplying some of the trade funds that we already have and getting on to the products that are more price sensitive.
If I can ask a quick follow-up.
Consumer Americas organic sales significantly better than what Nielsen would've suggested.
I appreciate Nielsen doesn’t capture everything but just as we think about modeling 2Q and beyond any retail sell-ins of any new product in 1Q or anything we should be aware of that might be considered a nonrecurring event? I wouldn’t expect any nonrecurring events that is going to move the dial significantly.
But remember what you see in Nielsen and we have --I know that the investment community has a real focus on spices and seasonings we’re growing share and growing the recipe mix category.
That is certainly a help.
We've got a number of channels that aren’t necessarily captured at their site.
So while we want to see the Nielsen the IRI data in spices and seasonings to improve and we have seen some of that sequentially it doesn't capture the whole picture.
This is [Kruno Brunette] in with a question for David.
So going back to US consumer operating margins were down 50 basis points in the quarter following a ‘14 in which they were down 70 basis points and we saw market shares in and spices down about 80 basis points in the quarter.
So when we go forward what do we need in order to get margins going in the right direction? Is it a matter of seeing stabilized market share trends within that spices segment? It is a couple of things.
One is our cost reduction activities are going to start to take hold an impact through the year as we offset the increased cost.
We get increase costs early in the year and it takes a while for our cost reduction activities to impact it.
So that’s one.
Secondly as we stabilize and start to grow share in our higher-margin items and spices and seasonings we should start to see recovery in gross margin.
Gordon do you want to add anything to that or Lawrence? No that those are the two key items.
Obviously this year as we mentioned is the story of raw material price or cost increases.
So the cost reductions are going to be meaningful as we progress through the year and as you’ve seen us talk earlier that we’ve stepped up our game in that respect.
So therefore they’re going to have a bigger impact as we progress.
And obviously volume growth is key to leveraging our scale and that is a good start to the year as you saw on our results and we would need to continue that momentum.
I think I would echo that Gordon we’ve been very clear that the cost impact from the higher raw materials impact us immediately from the beginning of the year of the cost reduction activities the cost improvement activity that we’re highly confident in phases in as we go through the year.
We also emphasize that we took no list price decreases or conducted any extraordinary promotions in this quarter the change in the margin structure is strictly related to the impact of cost and a minor contribution from product mix.
And then looking at the EMEA consumer business noticeably no pricing in the quarter but significant headwinds from foreign-currency and it looks like you’re expecting good acceleration in pricing in EMEA going forward.
Just was wondering what type of risk do you think that will have to volumes in that EMEA consumer segment given that your cost position may be little bit unfavorable to local competitors given that you’re dealing with higher raw material costs and FX at the same time? Yes the local competitors are going to have the same issue because spices and seasonings are mostly priced in US dollars.
So part of what you'll see is the pricing change to reflect the impact of raw materials on currency.
We feel pretty good about our ability to execute in the UK and – I am sorry in EMEA.
Just have a pretty simple maintenance question.
So I just want to clarify I think I thought you said – or I know this morning you stated that I guess constant currency EPS growth didn’t change that’s 6% to 8%.
But then I thought maybe I am misreading this but I thought at the time of Q4 at least in the transcript or some of the call was that constant currency EPS excluding special charges was 7% and 9%.
So I just want to make sure there wasn’t a change to constant currency EPS and if there is a change what's driving that? There is no change.
In the fourth quarter call we also highlighted pension as another impact that got us to that 7% to 9%.
So excluding in constant currency and excluding the impact of the increased benefit costs EPS growth is – was 7% to 9% and still at 7% to 9%.
And then just kind of a quick follow up then I guess the same rationale applies to adjusted operating income which was 4% to 5% including FX so that was off of the 608 and now we are just including an additional point of FX I am assuming that that's just very simplistically we’re now just at 3% to 4% off of the 608? This is Joyce.
That's right in our initial guidance of 4% to 5% growth in adjusted operating income that had about two percentage points of currency implied in there.
So the constant currency growth rate was 6% to 7% which continues to be.
If I go back to what I was kind of concerned about three months ago it was my thought that McCormick would have to or was going to reduce sizes on certain SKUs and maintain less prices.
So it was kind of like a laid-out strategy in response to higher commodities.
And McCormick was doing at a time when competition was intensifying and price gaps seemed to be getting bigger with private-label.
So can you just give us kind of an update on that on where you are in that process and has competition followed or do you feel like your price gaps are getting bigger on any items as result of this? And obviously because of the fragmented competition that we have it's a mixed story.
But our larger competitors have announced price increases as we’ve gone into the year both on the industrial and the consumer side because they are seeing the same level of commodity cost increases that we are.
Just also a follow-up you said quick service restaurants in the US kind of weak I would've thought by now there could be some kind of a pickup here and maybe the industry is saying.
So can you give us a reason why is it one or two retailers or is it all retailers where you’re seeing that weakness in the environment? Our quick service business in the Americas is pretty broad to a number customers but there are couple of customers that are large enough to have an impact.
And those larger customers as they’ve reported have been struggling somewhat with foot traffic and sales and that impacts us as well.
We are gaining with some of the smaller quick service restaurants and we feel pretty good about that .But it's not enough to offset the very large chains that are well-publicized and their challenges.
One specific question Alan on the cost cutting I guess there are now two initiatives to lower SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales.
Not to be too I guess specific but when you say fiscal ’16 do you mean by end of fiscal ‘16 that hundred basis point improvement should occur or kind of at the start? We expect it to be in our guidance for -- not giving early guidance but we expect that to be a full year impact for 2016 because the costs that we’re taking out are coming out now.
So kind of like on a run rate basis but building over this year as well.
That's right.
And then I guess you just opened up this figure for M&amp;A you’ve done two deals and I think you were quite frank last quarter about saying that the pipeline looked pretty good and you’re kind of reiterating that.
So I mean maybe you could go a little bit more into the deals that you're seeing why is there kind of a pickup in that today? There is the benefit right now of the low interest rate environment so that is -- and I am assuming that some sellers are anticipating that’s going to change in the not-too-distant future.
So it’s an optimum time if you’ve got a business that’s got good traction that maybe needs and as we've seen with the businesses we have been able to buy that need a little investment for growth because there is growth opportunities now is pretty good time.
They are probably also looking and seeing as we have that multiples are attractive for a seller a little more challenging for a buyer but as we've always done we’ve been pretty financially disciplined to make sure we get the returns that we expect.
But it's a pretty robust environment for the kinds of deals that we like to do right now.
And then my last question is during I guess that you seem to be coming out of it but during the depths of the US consumer segment pressure you not only noted the competition in spice and seasonings but you also mentioned slower growth or missteps in some of the other products whether it was Grill Mates or marinades spice and rice and Zatarain’s etc.
So I guess one kind of would you -- those other businesses are they seeing some better traction in the market and do you see like adding through M&amp;A other kind of niches which has been very successful for the company in the past but we haven't seen much of late? Yes we do see adding more adjacencies in our businesses both in consumer and industrial.
And so we see these opportunities and we’re little mixed on the smaller brands at least in the quarter.
So we had good traction in some of the smaller brands and some that still have some level of challenge.
I will say that as we talked about Grill Mates we are aggressively pursuing an earlier grilling season this year and we feel like we’re getting the kind of traction that we expect.
Last year grilling – our grilling promotion started closer to Memorial Day we’re getting them out a lot earlier this year.
Good morning.
This is actually Luby [ph] on for Akshay.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you’re thinking about the marketing around your new product launches slated for the remainder of the year? And maybe if you could just touch on sort of the rollout plan and in-store merchandising etc.
for those new products? And then I have a follow up thanks.
I will let Lawrence take that one.
Sure.
Thank you Alan.
Well as is always the case we have a fairly robust launch of new products.
Most of them are in our core categories.
So they get the benefit of all of our branded advertising and in turn the work that we do on them supports of the growth of our core business as well.
We are really quite encouraged by the launch of skillet sauces that we introduced last year and that we’ve continued the introduction this year.
We had advertising for those products in the first quarter.
So we have new grilling products and new gluten-free products that we launched this year that we’re also quite excited about.
And then just on the income from unconsolidated operations line it came in quite a bit better than we were expecting and we were modeling pretty decent growth there.
But can you just talk a little bit about what's driving the results there and also do you expect to see sort of the same level of growth for the remainder of the year that we saw here in the 1Q? This is Gordon.
As we mentioned in the call it’s driven by great performance from our joint venture in Mexico.
As we talked in previous calls there is a new facility that has been ramping up and improving productivity.
The sales growth there in the market has been strong and they have been very good in managing their cost positions.
So all of that has contributed to some very very strong growth in the first quarter.
We don't expect that pace of growth as we continue through the rest of the year and the reason for that is the impact of currency on a go forward basis on that business.
So we do expect moderating growth in that area especially as we get towards the back half of the year where their performance was also very strong and we start to lap that.
End of Q&amp;A I want to thank you for your questions and for participating in today's call.
Consumer demand for flavor is increasing and our categories have strong growth rates.
Our geographic presence and product portfolio are expanding and ideally aligned with the move towards healthier eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisine and bold tastes and we’re driving growth through innovation brand marketing and acquisitions.
In 2015 we stepped up our cost reduction activity and we will continue to pursue ways to improve our productivity and profit as we continue to grow.
We look forward to reporting to you on our continued progress in the upcoming quarters.
Thanks Alan.
And I’d also like to thank those who joined us this morning.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today’s information you can reach us at 410-771-7244.
That concludes this morning’s conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
The shift to e-commerce in China it’s hurt a lot of consumer companies lately.
McCormick seems to be bucking the trend.
Just curious the spice and seasoning category is it not being hit by the channel shift as much as others or is McCormick benefiting from that channel shift? I'm just curious for your thoughts here because it does seem to be a little bit of an anomaly versus what we're seeing elsewhere.
Hi Ken this is Lawrence.
I will take this question if you don’t mind.
We do participate in the e-commerce sector in China but I'll tell you for us it’s still developing segment of the market or developing channel just like it is for everyone else.
The big difference I think in our business in China for our consumer segment is that we’re a lot less dependent on the modern trade than many of our peer companies.
With the acquisition of Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments we got a strong foothold in the central part of China great penetration in the more traditional segment of the market and we’re experiencing really broad-based growth on both our McCormick brand and on our acquired brands across China.
We recognize that there has been some slowdown in economic growth in China but our categories continue to do well and our brands in particular had really broad-based growth in this quarter and we don't really see any change in that trend.
Thank you.
And then one follow-up.
In general you're looking for a nice improvement in the gross margin as the year progresses at least on a year-on-year basis.
I just want to make sure I understand if we had to sort of rank order the factors that are going to help that margin how much might we attribute to currency versus pricing just want a little bit more color if possible on what some of those factors might be? We're looking for sequential improvements in the gross profit margin and it's going to be a combination of CCI which will be obviously continuing to progress as we go through the year the pricing actions primarily on the industrial side of the business which as you know those pricing mechanisms get readjusted periodically based on the commodity basket.
So those will continue to readjust periodically throughout the year and then obviously our fourth quarter tends to be more heavily weighted to our consumer business so you'll get some benefit of business mix as we approach the fourth quarter.
Can I ask about the trends in operating profit growth on the consumer side? It’s been pretty flat for the business as a whole in the last couple of quarters on a constant currency basis.
Are you expecting an improvement going forward and what are the puts and takes there and particularly I don't know what you can say about the consumer Americas business but how has that been moving and how is it expected to shape up for the rest of the year? Thank you.
Hi Alexia it’s Gordon.
Again what we’re expecting the raw material cost pressures as we mentioned in the conference call has been a factor primarily well across both businesses.
The consumer business savings are starting to ramp up as we progress through the year.
So those benefits we anticipate to be more heavily weighted to the back half of the year.
The operating margins are also being impacted by our brand marketing expenses.
So as we mentioned in the call we do have some increase in our brand marketing expenses.
Some of this is going to be particularly weighted to Q3 and then finally we’re looking just for the continued consistency of growth and volume to leverage our scale.
So again by the fourth quarter anticipating -- our guidance anticipates a good fourth quarter for our consumer business particularly in the US consumer business.
So with the combination of CCI scale and the timing of our brand marketing we expect good margin performance by the fourth quarter.
And just as a quick follow-up.
In the US consumer business do you expect the price realization to improve through the course of the second half? Would you expect to get a little bit more of a benefit from year-on-year pricing being a little bit more stable than it has been in the past? Thank you.
We really haven't taken any pricing in the US consumer business there but we do expect a different mix as we’re selling more branded items and less of the value item.
Wanted just to ask your impressions of the US spices and seasoning category and the market share trends over the course of time.
You guys mentioned this in your script but could you just spend a little bit more time on the share declines here and what should we expect going forward? Is this a multi-year trend where you'll just progress very slowly to try to getting the share declines to stop to get back to neutral? I'm just trying to get your sensitivity on when you see these kinds of share declines how the business wants to respond to it how significant they are to you.
You got top line growth but share declines are always something that we look at quite closely and I'm trying to get a sensitivity here on your concern level on this and then how it should progress forward? We are obviously very focused on stabilizing and growing share.
Our intention is to actually be the driver of growth in our categories.
We are seeing share improvement and have for 20 consecutive months in our recipe mixes.
We're seeing it in some of our other brands like Zatarain's where we're seeing share improvement and we're seeing share improvement in some of our other markets.
So our core focus is on the US consumer business where the core spices and seasonings represent a little less than 15% of our total company sales.
So I want to keep it in perspective but we are very focused on regaining and driving share in those core items.
We think the things that we're doing like working on the pricing of the high price sensitive items at retail is a good mix.
We're helping our retailers in understanding the importance in the profitability of the category and that McCormick drives that profitability.
So we feel like we're doing a lot of the right things but it is going to take some time.
Yes David this is Lawrence if I can just add to those comments.
We’ve really been out in front of CAGNY in 2014 where really we were stepped up and said that we had lost some share in both of our core growth platforms in the US to some smaller competitors and put in place some initiatives to tackle that.
I think we did a lot of the heavy lifting last year and we are really actually pleased with our sales progress in both the first quarter and the second quarter of this year.
We are not gaining share yet in spices and seasonings.
We are in recipe mixes and really have turned that around quite strongly and in portions of our spices and seasonings business we are seeing some great progress.
Our gourmet relaunch which is a part of turning around our spices and seasonings category growth is generating great early results.
We are really winning the grilling season this year and we are confident that we will do more than just stabilize our share in this segment but that will return to share growth and will be driver of the category in the US.
We won’t be satisfied with our results ourselves until we do.
Is it still a price gap issue or do you think you have that under control? I think that we thought about our pricing and really our thinking on pricing has evolved as our understanding of this issue has matured with the greater analytics capability.
So when we spoke about this at CAGNY in 2014 our focus was on price gaps versus private libel and versus key competitors and having conversations with retailers about those price gaps with the aim of narrowing them either by reducing the prices on McCormick or frankly by raising the price on some competitive items that were irrationally priced in some cases below the retailers private label.
But as we've gone through 2014 and we’ve developed greater understanding of the pricing dynamics we came to realize that the price gaps actually mattered less than the absolute price points on about a dozen key items.
So our initiative this year has been focused more on managing the absolute price points on those key items and it does not involve additional pricing action or promotional activity on our part.
It's really at the way we allocate the promotional spending that we're already doing with the customers to direct it to the most productive place.
And then finally I think in my prepared remarks I mentioned a comprehensive category management tool and this is really the next step in our evolution on this to have an even stronger analytic capability that allows us to understand and model the cross-elasticity of the entire category to optimize it for the retailer.
One quick one just in terms of your guidance for this year how much of the M&amp;A related charges are included in your constant currency EBITDA or operating in some guidance? We mentioned about $1 million related to the consumer acquisitions that is already absorbed in those guidance numbers.
And just can you talk a little bit more broadly about the consumer environment? There has been some talk about lower gas prices helping consumer spending.
We really haven't seen it on broad data that we look at but how would you characterize the health of the consumer here in the US and maybe talk a little bit about China because all the indicators that we’re seeing point to a little bit of slowdown there but your business is actually doing quite well.
So can you talk about those two topics broadly? Thanks.
Sure.
We are still seeing a bifurcated consumer with some level of growth in premium and our gourmet brand is an example of that and niche categories.
So there is some growth.
We are seeing some recovery in food service with people eating out.
So we are seeing some of those lower gas prices find their way in.
On the other hand there is a vast number of consumers who are still stressed economically and so we are competing in the value segment to try capture that.
In China as Lawrence said there has been some slowdown in economic activity.
We’re encouraged because we’re still – we’re pretty broad-based we’re in the traditional trade we have our presence in the modern trade and we’re participating in the emerging and fast-growing e-commerce.
But we're still long-term believers in China.
We continue to make investments there and are bullish on our prospects.
Thanks.
I just wanted to understand a little bit about -- seems like particularly as it relates to EMEA you've come back a few times with some business reviews around these restructuring charges and I guess it seems to me like maybe you're just trying to get your hands around new cost opportunities that kind of make sense in a changing context whether that's currency or some of the effects currency might have on the market.
Could you tell me about that process a little bit because you've come up with some new charges a couple times now I guess in the past six months sort of seen more opportunities to take special charges restructurings and maybe where we stand -- should we expect more of that in the second half of the year more opportunity to do that? Thanks.
Any perspective on that would be great.
Yes I'll really point to -- and this is specific to Europe.
It's a continuation of the journey of shared service structures and leveraging scale where we have opportunities to do that.
You mentioned a couple of charges the first charge was primarily our first truly shared service opportunity which we went to Poland with and it was focused primarily in the financial end of things.
The current activities are again related to an extension potentially of other activities into those into the same shared service center.
So it's broadening shared service.
It's the same journey we've gone on here in the US.
The North American initiative that we took more recently was again more of an extension of shared service activity into our North American shared service and also in both cases it's looking at span of control faster decision-making and how we can delayer decision-making to be more responsive in a very very competitive market.
We do these things very very analytically and thoughtfully.
To say that we would never do anything again would be probably a misstatement but at the same time we have to execute what we've already discussed and as a result we need to get done the charges that we already announced this year and execute against those programs.
On gross margin erosion I guess it's kind of hard to see how all this trade activity and pricing actions why is that not helping you get your gross margin up like why is the gross margin continuing to erode a little bit? It doesn't appear to be hurting the year but I would have thought by the end of the year maybe do you expect to be back on track in track in terms of boosting gross margin? We expect gross margin -- as we talked about the impact of raw material costs this year we said it would hurt us earlier in the year.
We're forecasting mid single digit material cost inflation and the CCI -- that was hitting us right away in the beginning part of the year.
The CCI was going to take some time for us to help offset that.
So our expectation is as we progress through the year gross margin will have a sequential improvement such that by year-end we should see gross margin improvement year on year.
So we've got improvement in Q2 versus Q3.
We anticipate further sequential -- I'm sorry Q2 versus Q1 we expect further improvement in Q3 versus Q2 and then again improvement in the fourth quarter.
So it's a function of the timing of raw material costs and the timing of our CCI.
Gordon like what’s the factor that caused you to have to lower the guidance for the year? What fell below expectations in the first half? The price realization is the same and CCI savings is the same.
It’s a tweak on the business mix candidly and the offset was obviously in the favorability of the SG&amp;A.
But there's -- we were up slightly now we are comparable.
It’s not what I would call a major change to our full year guidance.
But the terms of the fundamentals of how we see this playing out that has not changed.
Secondly on the acquisition of Stubb’s is that providing any contribution to operating profit for the year? It's pretty neutral based on acquisition integration costs and the transaction costs that we've already mentioned.
Okay and then lastly one of your biggest or I guess your biggest customer had been very promotional on its private label side.
Has that eased off at all and has that allowed you to compete or to perform better at that retailer? Hey Rob this is Lawrence.
I think what you are referring to is actually not private label but it’s a controlled brand that is a McCormick brand that we sell them.
They’ve had a big – that’s had a pretty big impact on us in the first part of the year but we do see as they lap the activity that started really last year that is backing off considerably.
Does that mean that it's kind of continuing at a steady state or is it— Actually the ACV the large displays is about half its level of the peak.
So we're still going to see some year-on-year comparison but it is greatly reduced from its peak.
Right.
It's not steady state.
I guess two questions.
On China industrial is limited time offers that helped you in the first quarter did those roll off in the second as you had expected and is that business kind of on track or on plan with what you had thought? And then a bigger picture question for Alan.
The company has gotten more aggressive with M&amp;A this year three deals and the latest one Stubb’s in barbecue I think the company’s challenge in M&amp;A has been potentially some kind of conflict with industrial customers who may be in the same business.
Are you concerned about all of that any of that or is there still enough runway based on the M&amp;A you see to not have any conflicts arise within your industrial customers? Let me take the industrial question first or the acquisition questions first and I'll have Lawrence talk about China industrial.
We always analyze for deals what the competitive overlap is going to be.
We know that we need to be in parts of the categories that are growing faster and we see opportunities for this in this case and in the case of barbecue sauces we saw very little competitive overlap and we saw the opportunity for us to really participate in more of the premium and higher priced part of the category that's growing.
And so it's a brand that has no high fructose corn syrup and has carved out a very nice free firm all of the stuff that consumers don't seem to want right now.
So that one fits very well for us and we see some other opportunities like that that don't impact or overlap with our critical customers.
So we've expanded our horizons in terms of the kinds of acquisitions that we're considering.
And I'll have Lawrence talk about China industrial.
Eric on our China industrial business the growth that we are experiencing there partly reflects a recovery of the quick service restaurants and partly reflects gain in share that we’ve achieved with those same customers.
So while the limited time offers are important there is a steady stream of innovation that these customers are doing that cycles through our business continuously.
I’d say the key underlying trend this year has been a recovery in the quick service restaurant themselves and a gain in our share with those customers.
End of Q&amp;A I think what we ought to do since we are coming up on the hour is I’d like to turn it over to Alan for closing remarks and we will welcome any further questions.
We will take those off-line.
Sure.
Great thanks for all your questions and participating in the call today.
Consumer demand for flavour is rising and driving demand for our products.
Our geographic presence and product portfolio are expanding and in line with the move towards healthier eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisine and bold taste.
And we’re driving growth through innovation marketing and acquisitions.
In 2015 we are seeing the benefits of our stepped-up cost reduction activity and we’ll continue to pursue ways to improve our productivity and profit as we grow the topline.
We look forward to reporting you on our continued progress in the upcoming quarters and we hope everybody goes out and grills on the 4<sup>th</sup> July weekend.
Have a great weekend.
Thanks Alan.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
For any additional question please give us a call at 410-771-7244.
That concludes this morning’s call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you.
We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Please proceed with your questions.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Andrew.
Good morning Andrew.
Hi two quick questions for me.
I guess the first with McCormick now looking for the full year EPS towards the lower end of the range and consensus being more in the middle of the range currently I guess it seems like with the incremental CCI savings you now expect you probably could have made up that profit shortfall had you decided to let those savings flow through to the bottom line rather than reinvesting a good chuck of it in the fourth quarter as you've talked about.
So maybe can you talk a little bit about the trade-off and the decision to up marketing in the fourth quarter and kind of more specifically what that’s going behind? Yes we were investing both in the U.S.
and in Europe behind our brands and we think that’s really important and critical as we’re trying to build share and support the new products that we’ve introduced.
So we think that is a good investment.
We’re really happy with our CCI program that we have the ability to provide that fuel as opposed to trying to offset some of these headwinds.
Okay.
If we -- Lawrence if we think about some of the progress that you’re continuing to make in the core consumer business in the U.S.
I know that you’re just starting to have more of those let’s call it robust discussions with customers given the capabilities that you’ve got now.
But one of the key efforts for last couple of quarters was sort of getting those price points in the right place on some of those top key items right in the urban spice space.
Is there any way you can share a couple of metrics with us on maybe where you are in that progress? Do you now have those at the right price points? Are you most of the way there and is that's what's driving the improved sequential consumption trends we’re seeing? Okay.
Thanks Andrew.
I think that that's a good part of it.
We’re really pleased with the progress that we’ve made on our management of price points with our customers.
When I talk about being at the beginning of a process here in our prepared remarks there is really in reference to the use of the new tools that we added in the middle of third quarter.
So we have time set up with most of our leading customers in the U.S.
to work through analytics with them around both pricing and on assortment and the two really need to work both together.
We've had a new modeling tool for both pricing and assortment.
They work together in tandem and we expect to get through about 50% of the ACV of our customers by the end of the fourth quarter of this year so that’s pretty good progress.
In terms of implementing what we’ve done so far on the price points on those key items we’ve made a lot of progress and that is part of the reason or the strength of our business.
But we don’t want to underestimate the value of the other things that we’re doing in terms of innovation and in A&amp;P to drive our core business.
So one of the other things that you’re starting to see now is innovation in the core part of our business with things like the herb grinders and you’re seeing renovation of our core business to kind of take away the reason for being for some of these smaller brands that have made some inroads against us.
So the extension of -- the expansion of organic within our gourmet line the non-GMO labeling on our core spice line these are all important consumer elements that go beyond price to get at the consumer and build the strength of our core brands.
We’re very committed to getting not only growing that core business but to winning market share in that business as well.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone a couple of quick questions.
As a follow-up to Andrew's are you able to actually quantify what the organic ex-acquisition sales growth was for the U.S.
consumer business? And then as a follow-up on a different topic you mentioned acquisitions a couple of times and obviously you’ve moved into the wet sauce business with the Stubb's acquisition in a very small way.
Could you give us an idea geographically and by category what your priorities are there thank you? Sure.
Let me take the acquisition real quickly and then I’ll ask Lawrence to talk more about the U.S.
consumer business but where we’re targeting with our acquisitions is again in adjacent categories where flavor can matter and you've seen with the Stubb's acquisition an example of that we’re moving into some areas that are more closely related to what we do but not directly.
So we have room to grow there and Stubb's specifically puts us into more of a natural and interesting category.
Our Stubb's business doesn’t have high fructose corn syrup.
It’s gluten free and so it differentiates itself and is premium in the category.
So we feel good about that.
The other acquisitions that we’re making we’re continuing to target are those leading companies in markets where we have either a small presence or no presence and so that’s what we did with D&amp;A this year.
And we’re also targeting more flavor acquisitions for our Industrial business.
So while we’ve done very few over the last 10 years we see that as an opportunity to really build and grow our business and I’ll let Lawrence answer the question I’m sorry Gordon answer the question on… So Alexia in terms of how much -- the only acquisition in the Americas that would have contributed to any consumer growth would have been Stubb's and since it was just the last couple of weeks of the quarter it’s very small it was 0.2 on the total Americas and the U.S.
drives that number as you can imagine given the size of our market.
So the 2.4% volume mix in Americas would also be directionally correct for the U.S.
since it’s a big part of it.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I’ll pass it on.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about the sales guidance the 4% to 6%? Can you break it down price and volume? And then most importantly just talk to me about what's driving the upside here? Because obviously when the foreign exchange gets more negative we would assume that you would try to raise price in response to it.
So I'm really just trying to get a sense as to what's driving the upside on that organic? Or it's not organic it's the constant currency sales growth.
Hi David it’s Gordon.
So pricing -- our outlook on that hasn’t really changed for the year.
So of the 4% to 6% we’ve said all along it’s going to be in the 1% to 2% range especially as we pass through the commodity cost increases on the industrial side and those adjustment mechanisms have been reading through.
When we first started to guide towards the upper end of that range part of that was based on the acquisitions that we were completing during the year.
So that helps us contribute about another 1% to the growth of that number.
But I would also point to the fact that also the confidence is in the underlying base business where we've seen strong organic growth pretty broad-based candidly.
So that’s also allowing us to feel good about the upper end of that range.
And if I could just follow on on this on the consumer side: so profits are down here.
You've got the issue on the Indian business.
But what was the description in terms of -- if its profits are down something like $8 million $7.5 million year-on-year what's the driver here? Again just many of your comments are extremely positive but then when you just look at the OI line on consumer it's down.
So what's the simple one-liner here beyond the Indian business problem in terms of why OI goes down in consumer? Well FX obviously is a large headwind on a reported basis because that obviously has been a factor on both the reported top line and bottom line.
So that obviously is one we continue to wrestle with and as you heard in my comments it's gotten slightly worse on the operating income line as we've upped the negative impact on the total company to 4% versus the prior three.
So FX Kohinoor and part of this also in terms of profit realization has been the commodity cost environment where commodity cost have been hitting us hard earlier in the year as we've indicated the CCI program was going to help offset that as we progressed through the year.
So we are seeing the sequential improvement in the gross profit margin with the expectation that fourth quarter we see a rebound in both gross profit and operating income.
So part of it is also the timing of material cost increases and how those are being offset by the CCI program itself.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'll pass it along.
Thank you.
I had two questions.
How big is India today in terms of sales and profit? I think when you bought it it was about $85 million in sales.
Just it might help us model for next year.
And then secondly for Lawrence the pricing trends for the company are a little below what we had expected.
We were thinking pricing would be up about 2% this year especially considering the higher commodity costs.
You said you'd be 50% done by fourth quarter with all the category management efforts; but are you tracking a little behind where you thought you would be at this point in terms of pricing? And maybe it's also a question for Gordon is the pricing for the company a little behind given the commodity cost environment? In terms of the size of the business it’s about a $50 million business and while we don’t disclose specific profitability I’d say it’s not in a strong profit position now clearly by some of the actions we're taking.
So it’s not a strong profit generator and has teetered on loss positions in the current year.
So it’s been in a loss position this year and that’s part of the reason for us taking the actions that we did.
I don't know if Lawrence … I’ll take the second question.
Rob on the category management effort I want to separate that from the idea of price increase.
We're working to manage to get our key items to the critical price points within our existing spend in promotion by managing the use of promotional funds and directing them towards the most productive purpose.
In our U.S.
business we've not taken a price increase in 2014 or 2015.
So what is reading through maybe in the Nielsen as movement in price is more the way Nielsen reports units and the amount of weight per package.
But there hasn’t been any kind of pricing action in the U.S.
either last year or this year and our promotional spending is pretty much in line with what it has been historically.
All of that category management work has redirected existing promotional fronts.
And Gordon is the pricing trends for the company overall in line with expectations for the year? Yes.
I’d say yes and also in terms of the gross margin other than the events surrounding Kohinoor we've talked about the sequential improvement in the timing and it is lining up with the expectations that we had as we've talked to you throughout the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Good morning.
Alan I wanted to push back a little bit on an answer you gave earlier in the Q&amp;A here on elevated brand marketing expense.
You talked about pursuing share looking to support new innovation.
Presumably that would have been planned out ahead of time I am guessing.
And so I wanted to drill in a little bit further and get a sense of whether Q3 was running a little bit more than expected and you're upping Q4 whether that might be macro-related in the U.S.
and Europe expectations on a macro maybe due to your own performance thus far or maybe its additive to your performance.
Maybe your performance has been good thus far and you really want to push hard against some of your competitors.
I was just looking for a bit little more clarity there if you don't mind.
Yes.
We're seeing good topline performances as we've talked about but we're also investing behind a purity campaign which is fundamentally that fresh tastes better and our pure tastes better and so we believe that’s the message that's resonating with consumers and we want to make sure that we have enough engine in the tank for what is our most important quarter of the year.
This is where a lot of our purchases come and so this is the time to invest and while we did have good plans going in we've see the opportunity to invest a little more.
Thank you; I appreciate that.
And then Gordon a question for you just on CCI.
You can correct me if I'm wrong excuse me but I believe CCI got off to a slower start this year; and I am curious if you have any sense on A how efficiencies and cost savings can pace as we move into fiscal 2016.
So that's the first part of the question.
And then secondly I'm also curious what the bottom line drop looks like relative to other years on a percentage basis? And the reason I ask that is just given your organic announcement on gourmet; I am curious if there's added cost to tracing and tracking your capabilities there and what that means for potential cost saves falling to the bottom line.
So a two-part question there if that makes sense.
I am going to ask Mike Smith to take the CCI question.
Good morning.
I would also like to echo Alan's thanks to the McCormick employees for really helping us provide more fuel for growth this year.
It's their efforts that we've been able to do that and you're right we did say earlier in the year that CCI was going to build as we address the commodity increases we saw come into 2015 a lot of our programs are really hitting now and into the fourth quarter.
We did the North American effectiveness initiative which as you remember we've added more resources at the leadership position and elsewhere to drive more CCI programs and we're seeing success there and we're also seeing additional -- I think the units are working together more collaboration across functions and really driving more savings and it's setting us up well for next year as you alluded to.
We're very comfortable with the $95 million in total for CCI and the special projects at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Comment on the organic McCormick is already the number one brand of organic herbs and spices in the grocery store and so with the action that we're taking on our gourmet line to make it 90% organic by this time next year it just builds on a capability that we've already got.
So this is not going to add to our fixed cost structure in any meaningful way that we've already got a great deal of capability around organic.
But raw material themselves are undeniably more expensive than regular spices and that’s reflected in the premium price that organic products command in the market place.
It's not just a scarcity issue it costs more money to produce organic ingredients and products and the same is true for us.
This is why we're starting really what the gourmet end of our line because the gourmet products can support a premium price.
Okay.
Very clear.
And Alan if I can just sneak in one yes or no question for you you talked about potential M&amp;A and you named industrial with flavors.
We understand that there might be a global natural colors portfolio for sale and I am just curious if natural colors are an area that you might want to get into.
We look for areas more where flavor can matter and it’s hard to do a yes or no question because in almost every deal we look at there is some things we like and some things we don’t.
And so rather than say yes or no to that particular opportunity I would say we are looking to expand our industrial portfolio to better serve our customers and it's really geared around where flavor matters Thanks guys.
Sure Good morning; thanks very much.
Good morning Jonathan.
I wanted to -- a little bit of a follow-up on a question Rob asked about pricing; but maybe bigger picture about the earnings guidance maybe if it tells us something.
When you go back to -- when I look at the -- below your 9% to 11% earnings growth that we've seen for the past few years couple of years anyway currency has clearly played a huge role in that.
Then I would go back to digging through -- you had about three or four quarters back in '08 '09 where currency just crushed you at like twice the magnitude.
And the difference it seems to me is that -- I know you had some more acquisition tailwind back then but you priced a lot more aggressively.
And so it leads me -- I guess two questions.
First would be I guess what's different this time? It seems like especially in overseas markets that are affected by currency it seems like you're a little bit more shy to price to that currency -- and cost obviously as I know a lot of these costs wind up being denominated in something like dollars if not explicitly dollars.
And I guess secondly when you look at that 9% to 11% earnings algorithm it seems like it's the right thing to do for your business to balance volume and pricing like that in the face of currency headwinds.
Do you think that maybe 9% to 11% earnings wise is that a signal that maybe that's too much as far as what the core business should be able to sustain prudently? Those are my questions.
Thanks.
Thanks I will answer the pricing question and we can kind of get into the long term discussion but specifically to pricing what we saw in 2009 '10 and '11 and '12 was extreme commodity inflation and so we're trying to respond to that.
We've had some of that in this year and we recognize that what we're really focused on is getting our price thresholds right in the marketplace and that’s not unique to the U.S.
it’s around the world.
And so we've taken a pause a bit on pricing.
We've taken some pricing to offset currency in some of our markets but our focus has been more on getting the right price thresholds and making sure that we're not giving consumers or customers a reason to go somewhere else.
So that’s really what we've seen more this year.
Around the overall EPS guidance of 9% to 11% we still feel pretty confident that over time that that is an achievable target.
Obviously year to year we have to make adjustments based on what's happening.
This year we had the particular headwinds around pension costs and around currency.
While we offset some commodity inflation but we still feel over time that that's the right targets.
Remember that includes some contribution from acquisitions in the years and this year while we made a couple acquisitions they have a minimum impact on the earnings for the year but we'll see those flow through next year.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
Thanks Jonathan.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
A couple of questions; hopefully we can kick through them quickly.
Did you say whether in the U.S.
you lost share in consumer or did you maintain it and I think Lawrence you may have said our goal is to maintain share and I always thought it was to increase the share albeit even within a growing category.
Maybe you could just clarify a couple of those things.
Sorry Eric in our two core categories in herbs and spices we did have a share decline in this quarter.
It was less than a share point.
We continue to improve in this area and although the prepared remarks did say we want to get to parity growth with the category that’s a mile post along the way and a journey.
It’s hard to talk to -- the real conversation we want to have with retailers ultimately is about driving category growth and driving consumers to the segment and to section of the store and it’s hard to have that conversation until our growth rate catches up with that of the category.
So yes we want to get to parity growth with the category but certainly that’s not where we want to stop.
On recipe mixes it’s a different story.
That’s where we started out but we've really turned the tide there pretty convincingly and we did have a share gain on receipt mixes our second core category during the quarter and I think in our remarks we said we had 23 consecutive months now of share gains in that category.
Okay.
And then on the -- just to switch up again on the industrial it seems as if some of the U.S.
QSRs for example are doing a bit better and I think you noted some weakness there.
Is that a function of menus and product introductions or something? Maybe just touch a little bit on that and then I have then the last question.
Yes it's more a function of what we sell -- what the products we sell to them go in and where their growth is coming from.
So for instance one of our customers launched all day breakfast.
We've very little bit that goes in there for that customer.
So even if they're doing a little better it doesn’t impact us.
We tend to be in the U.S.
on the core menu items and outside the U.S.
more on the product innovation and limited time offers which is why we're seeing a little bit of a disparity in the results.
Okay.
And then just kind of like the CCI figure it sounds like -- remind me Gordon that's a -- like I know you look at it very conservatively versus other companies in their quotes and so the $95 million is obviously for this fiscal year.
But does the fact that it's ramping up I think there was a previous question in this regard does the fact that it's ramping up as the year progresses suggest that fiscal '16 can also be quite a good year? And then related to that Alan maybe I'm crazy but did you mention earlier in the year about a certain level of SG&amp;A savings into fiscal '16 and how does CCI figure into that if my memory is correct? Yes your memory is correct.
We talked about leveraging SG&amp;A and that’s a lot of what we except to get from and are getting from our restructurings.
I'll let Gordon specifically about that.
So there is wraparound effect of CCI from the current year programs into next year and you alluded to the SG&amp;A which indeed we talked about a 100 basis point improvement.
So some of that started this year but there will be the full year benefit going into next year because with some of the actions that we took and announced this year only had a partial year impact.
So you certainly have that wraparound benefit.
And then there are the programs within the year that kind of go into the base and then we start all over again next year and there is a new hill to climb and our teams every year find a way and to Mike's earlier comments they find a way to get to savings targets that we need.
So we're still developing what those programs are for next year but certainly there is going to be wraparound from the actions we've taken this year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I'll pass it on.
Thanks.
I want to thank everybody for your questions and for participating in the call today.
Consumer demand for flavor is rising and driving demand for our products.
Our geographic presence and product portfolio are expanding and align with the move towards healthier eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisine and bold taste.
In 2015 we're achieving strong sale growth and significant cost savings.
We look forward to reporting to you on our continued progress as we wrap up 2015 and continue to build momentum for the future.
Thank you Alan and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
If you have additional questions regarding today's information please give us a call at 410-771-7244.
This concludes this morning's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Alexia.
Hello there.
So can I ask on the U.S.
Consumer business? It sounds as though it's on a better trajectory in terms of market share.
Does that mean that those smaller brands that have been plaguing you for the last 18 months or so are kind of now I guess stabilizing or actually going back? I just want to hear about how things are going on a category management front.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you Alexia.
We think we're making great progress with the improvement actions that we started in the early part of 2014 to build brand equity accelerate innovation and to win at retail.
We really think that we've gotten a good handle on this.
We have worked with our leading customers with our new tools on both category management assortment management and pricing management.
And we think that we've made a great deal of progress and really have some positive momentum building in this part of our business.
In many of the subcomponents of the category we're clearly gaining share and with many of the individual customers we're gaining share as well.
So we think we turned the corner on the problem and are in a position to build from a base of strength that's been established by some of the heavy lifting done over the last two years.
Great.
And then as a quick follow-up it looked as though you had very good net price realization on your U.S.
Consumer business this time.
I'm assuming that was a positive mix shift with less pressure from the world markets season brand this time around.
And yet the profits were only up modestly and gross margin didn't move too much.
Were there other offsets in there that put pressure on the performance this time around? Thank you.
And I'll pass it on.
Yes.
I mean there was no pricing again in the U.S.
business that we took this year.
So part of it was mix part of it was some of the noise in the data associated with some of the actions we took with the weighting of some of our products.
But generally we're in a position as Lawrence said to be able to execute pricing in that business as we've mentioned in our conference call.
We had some acquisition-related cost in the U.S.
Consumer side of things related to Stubb's.
So some of the profit realization was impacted by that.
And in total the gross margin improved.
We are continuing to spend up against our brand.
You saw the increase in brand marketing of $9 million in the quarter.
That's pretty substantial.
So we think that's important as well to build the business for the future.
So that also was impactful on the quarter in terms of profit realization.
Great.
Thank you very much and congratulations on the CEO transition.
Looking forward to working with you and great working with you in the past Alan.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning Rob.
It's really good to see the progress in North America but you did say that you're going to initiate some pricing for 2016.
I think you said very low single-digit across.
Can you give us a little more color on what parts of the business you're going to implement that pricing on? And also talk about – a lot of grocers I think are worried more about deflation and investors are worried about it too.
You seem to still have inflation in your system.
How will your base pricing actions be in relation to competition? And then also private label do you expect your competition in private label to also increase by the same amount? Are they experiencing the same kind of inflation on packaging and materials that you're experiencing? Thanks.
Sure Rob.
First of all we have not taken any pricing action in the U.S.
for the last two years while we address some of the fundamental challenges in that part of our business.
But as we have worked with the price elasticity tools and have been able to model the category more robustly we've identified many areas where there are opportunities for us to adjust our pricing.
The price increase that we've planned in our U.S.
business has really been worked through at quite a granular level on an item-by-item basis.
Some items are moving down as well as some items moving up but the net increase will be in the 1% to 2% range.
This has already been taken to our customers so this is out in the field right now.
And we've gotten really no meaningful pushback on it at all.
Our basket of commodities is different than the basket of commodities than most of our peer companies.
And there's good cost justification for the increase that we're taking.
It's really not around packaging.
Packaging is actually kind of in a bit of a deflationary mode.
It's more around some of our more iconic raw material.
And we believe that the cost pressures around those iconic raw materials if anything we're better positioned than our direct competitors on those items due to our global sourcing capability.
So our competitors would be feeling that same pressure as well.
That's helpful.
And...
Rob this is Mike Smith.
We have seen our competitors take pricing already in some cases and we do think private label will move also.
Very helpful.
Thank you guys.
Good morning and congratulations again Alan on the career.
And Lawrence congrats on your appointment.
Looking forward to it.
So first question is just a follow-up on commodities.
Can you specifically talk a little bit about pepper and what your expectation is that's embedded in your overall commodity outlook as far as pepper goes? Hi Akshay.
It's Mike Smith again.
As you know the price of pepper has risen over the past five years from about $1 a pound to $5 a pound spot but we've seen a lot more planning over the last couple years and we see a stabilization in the price of pepper as we continue to work with farmers globally to increase acreage and increase yield.
So those assumptions are built into our low-single-digit commodity price increase this year.
So we think we've seen the peak.
Hopefully longer term it's a downward trend.
Perfect.
And then just on North America you mentioned share gains in the customer accounts where they've implemented most of the changes you've suggested.
What percentage of your sales did those customers account for roughly? And can you just help us understand sort of the dialog that the pushback perhaps that you're getting there and maybe what your argument is when you do get that pushback? I mean one of the arguments that we've heard is just generally there's more fragmentation of share across many categories and that's perhaps driven by consumers wanting more choice than more sort of smaller authentic brands but we'd love to know sort of what your category management analysis is telling you.
And then if you could give us some sense of the customers that you are seeing success how much of your portfolio they represent? That'll be great.
Thank you.
Sure Akshay.
I don't want to speak too specifically about any one customer.
I will say that the basket of customers that we have approached now is roughly 50% of our volume and the set of recommendations that we make for those customers are quite extensive.
As a group there's quite a span of adoptions.
So some of those customers have literally taken on our full recommendation or as others have cherry-picked it a bit depending on their strategy.
This is going to be an ongoing process.
We're working with these customers to get the recommendations that we think are best for the category which generally are also the best recommendation for us and as well accepted.
And we continue to work with additional customers.
This started as an extraordinary effort.
It's really become our main way of working in sales.
It's just a more fact-based analytic-based approach to the customer that the more sophisticated customers in particular appreciate.
And they tend to be the larger and faster-growing customers as well.
You guys want to add anything to that? No.
Well done.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
I'd like to add my well wishes to you Alan and I look forward as well Lawrence talking with you.
So I just had two quick questions.
If you look at the quarter – I'm sorry for the year what sort of emerging market growth did you have? If you can give that maybe on an underlying basis and I was just curious how India and China and maybe perhaps this is more of a fourth quarter question really influence that growth rate? Well on a go-forward basis we're still robust on China.
We know there's a lot of discussion around China.
We're obviously very aware of the economic discussion going on there but our own business we're anticipating that continues to do well.
India as you know we've taken actions to focus more on the branded component of that business.
So as we look forward into 2016 we expect India actually to be a drag as we lap the anniversary of our exit of the broken and bulk rice.
So you'll see noise in the Asia Pacific numbers as we progress through the year where we'll try and help you understand what's going on in the mix of that business.
But again we anticipate China being a good performer and India as we have rebased that business that will be a negative on the sales line.
Chris I want to just expand on China just a bit because it has grown to be such a large contributor to our total business.
We're aware of the macroeconomic pressure around the China market which does make us cautious but we're also quite optimistic about our business in China.
A great deal of the carnage that's happened around us has been more in the modern trade portion of the business.
That part of our business is slow as well but it only accounts for about 20% of our consumer business in China.
Much more of our business in particular thanks to the acquisition that we did a couple of years ago is more directed to the interior to the smaller cities and through a more traditional trade outlet.
So we have continued to experience quite robust growth of our consumer business in China.
For the year we were up I think 11% in China in 2015.
It was a little bit slower in the fourth quarter but some of that was some anticipation of the Chinese New Year promotions that were coming beginning in December which for us is fiscal 2016.
I don't want to comment too much on 2016 but the opening of our year in China on the consumer side of our business has been really quite strong.
And I focus my remarks on the consumer side because for us China has really become predominantly a consumer business.
Years ago China was more of an industrial business for us and that's how we got our foothold there.
But with the continued growth of our consumer business and with the addition of the acquisition we did a couple of years ago that business is now more [indiscernible] about two-thirds consumer.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Maybe along the same lines I just was curious about...
I was just there with the China team last week and met with the management over there.
Actually Alan and I went over as part of our internal transition communication.
And so it gave us an opportunity to meet firsthand with the China team and they continue to be quite optimistic.
That's great.
Thank you for the color.
Just a quick follow-up on the acquisition outlook and just get a sense of like the pipeline and really where you are focused today.
Are you seeing any opportunities given some of the macroeconomic uncertainties in emerging markets? Just curious how the pipeline looks here today.
I'll say that we always have an active pipeline of acquisition project and we're always in dialogue with some potential targets.
And that is the case today but I really can't say too much more than that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey.
Good morning gentlemen and Alan and Lawrence congratulations to you both.
I don't know what they're doing with all that mayonnaise in Mexico but it's good to see.
Gordon I have a few questions for you around your cost savings program for 2016 your outlook there.
So I'm curious on how the achievement of your cost savings in 2016 fits into your guidance range.
Should we just think about that as kind of in the middle of the guidance range? And then as far as thinking about the net benefit to earnings should I be thinking about something like a net $75 million benefit to earnings just from taking the $20 million add-in spend that you might have on the marketing side and then you're going to have pricing mostly covering input cost inflation is that the right way to think about it? Well in terms of the program itself and the realization I would say I'd put it this way in 2016 our anticipation of the use of those benefit is more in line with how we had hoped the program would run which means we'd have a portion of it read through into reinvestment in the brands which we indicated we're doing through the up spend of $20 million plus.
It will also blend partially some of the pricing and obviously we have other costs in our system as well as it relates to salary increases et cetera that are built into our forecast.
So I'd just say the combination of all those things end up feeding into the total outlook that we have.
I prefer not to parse about how much of it's going to go to the bottom line how much of its used.
But the net-net is obviously an improvement in margin structure that we had hoped that this program would generate both on the gross and operating income line.
And should we still think about a bigger piece of that pie coming from the gross margin line or would you see more cost benefits in the future coming from the SG&amp;A line? We're still more heavily weighted towards the cost of goods sold as a generator of these savings.
But obviously we continue to look at SG&amp;A and we took actions last year and we're looking to leverage our SG&amp;A structure as we grow.
Okay.
And then just a final question for me on the industrial business really solid growth during the quarter a really solid margin.
And I wanted to ask a question surrounding either driving margins higher or sustaining some of the margin that you saw in Q4 just given the growth profile and potential of the top-line there.
If you can somewhat close the gap on your margins relative to your consumer business I think it can really be a positive for you guys going forward.
And I'm curious on how that margin sustainability or even growth from here works whether it's something that's solely related to mix or if there's some production optimization in there as well.
And I think what I'm really trying to get at here is when you think about the ingredients industry and the move by a lot of food and beverage companies towards natural I think it can really help you guys from a volume standpoint as more and more people use spices and herbs whether it's for coloring flavoring et cetera.
But if you can move up the value chain say for maybe a bulk spice and herb towards an extract or something like that maybe you can benefit on the price side and the margin side as well.
And so I wanted to ask a question about how the growth or sustainability in margin improvement within industrial goes going forward? Thank you.
Hey Brett this is Lawrence.
I'll start and then I'm going to pass this over to Gordon.
Some parts of your question it sounded like you are reading out of some of our internal strategy document.
Certainly improving the product mix and moving towards flavors and more value-added technically differentiated product is part of the margin equation and the overall trend in our industry towards more natural less artificial is an important driver of volume for us because this is an area where we think that we got particular expertise.
I think in our remarks we indicated that about 40% of the briefs that we get from our customers include some wellness aspect and this is an area that is an opportunity for us to get leverage and is part of driving our margins higher.
And there are parts of our business that are higher margin than others and the flavor end and the more technically differentiated end is separately where the best opportunities are.
Gordon you want to elaborate on that? I would just add that obviously the CCI program for the industrial business is designed both to improve margin and to help us reinvest in R&amp;D to help us drive the mix shift towards a higher margin.
So that's part of the equation as well.
And I'm sorry but I mean just – Lawrence is 11% a high watermark in your opinion? Well this is Gordon jumping in.
We haven't put a boundary on it candidly.
For those of you who followed us for quite some time 8% to 10% has been the goal.
And as we went through periods of high inflation that gets interrupted because we have pass-through mechanisms that interrupt that margin improvement or at least mask the optics of it.
But we're obviously close to that 10% where we landed years here so it's not as if we put a ceiling on this.
It's something that we continue to evaluate.
And we'll look forward to improving that even still.
But there hasn't been a specific target or ceiling that we put out on that business.
Okay.
I'll yield the floor.
Yeah.
I think with another call coming up at 8:30 we probably have to end our Q&amp;A there.
And Lawrence I know you had some remarks to share.
I'll turn it over to you.
Great.
First I'd like to thank you all for your questions and to everyone who is on the call today both the questioners and the listeners.
Yeah thank you for participating in today's call.
Consumer demand for flavor is on the rise.
It's driving growth for McCormick.
Our geographic presence and product portfolio are expanding and aligned with the move towards healthier eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisine and bold taste.
This is evident in our 2015 results and along with our strategies gives us confidence in our 2016 outlook as we grow our business and build value for our shareholders.
I hope all of you who are in the snow-impacted areas this weekend cooked a lot of McCormick Chili and a lot of Zatarain's Gumbo.
Thank you all for your participation on the call.
Thanks Lawrence and to everyone on the call.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information please give us a call at 410-771-7244.
This concludes this morning's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!