Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation first quarter 2011 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner President of Markel Corporation.
Good morning.
It's my pleasure to welcome you to the Markel Corporation's first quarter conference call.
Thank you all for joining us.
On today's call we will follow our normal line-up with Anne Waleski leading up with the financial results followed by Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt with operational comments then I will discuss our investment in other operations.
After our comments we will all be available for your questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section under non-GAAP reconciliation or in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
With that I'll turn it over to Anne.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I will follow the same format today as I have in past quarters.
I will discuss our underwriting results followed by a brief discussion of our investment results and bring the two together with a discussion of our total results.
Regarding with the underwriting results first quarter 2011 gross written premiums were just under $600 million up 21% compared to 2010.
The increase in 2011 was due to higher gross premium volume in the Specialty Admitted in London Insurance market segment.
For the quarter ended March 31 2011 the Specialty Admitted segment included $58 million of gross written premium from our first comp workers compensation operations which we acquired in late 2010.
The increase in gross written premium in the London Insurance market segment was due in part through our acquisition of Elliott Special Risk in late 2009 which is now been fully converted from an MGA to a risk bearing operation.
We also saw significant increases in premium volume within our marine and energy division due in part to offering large loan sizes and an increased pricing environment.
Net written premiums were approximately $520 million up 16% to the prior year.
Retentions were down slightly in 2011 at 88% compared to 91% in 2010.
Approximately 2 points of this decrease relates to reinstatement premiums associated with losses incurred during the first quarter of 2011.
Earned premiums increased 12% primarily due to higher earned premiums in the Specialty Admitted in London market segments as a result of higher gross premium volumes compared to 2010.
Our combined ratio was 112% for 2011 compared to 101% in 2010.
The increase was due to a higher current accident year loss ratio and a higher expense ration partially offset by more favorable development of prior years loss reserve compared to 2010.
The combined ratio for 2011 included $69 million or 15 points of underwriting loss for natural catastrophes that occurred in the first quarter including the Australian floods the earthquake in New Zealand and the Japanese earthquake and subsequent tsunami.
Favorable redundancies on prior year's loss reserves increased to $75 million or 16 points of favorable development compared to $38 million or 9 points of favorable development in 2010.
The increase was primarily due to more favorable development of prior year losses in the Excess &amp; Surplus Lines segment.
In the first quarter of 2010 we've reported $14 million of adverse developments on an errors and omissions program for mortgage servicing companies.
In the first quarter of 2011 we resolved the significant portion of our outstanding liabilities associated with the same program and as a result reduced losses of about $16 million.
Our 2011 expense ratio increased approximately 6 points to 44%.
The increase in the expense ratio is due in part to higher personnel cost.
Additionally our first quarter 2010 expense ratio benefited 2 points from the favorable arbitration settlement and in anticipated insurance recoverable.
Now moving to our investment results.
Investment income was up approximately 2.5% in 2011 to $70 million due in part to higher invested assets and dividend income compared to 2010.
Net realized investment gains were $11 million compared to $16 million in 2010.
Realized gains in 2011 included no write-downs for other than temporary declines in the estimated fair value of investments compared to $2 million of write-downs from 2010.
Unrealized gains increased $20 million before taxes in 2011 due to increases in equity securities.
Tom will comment further on investments in his portion of the call.
Looking at our total results for 2011 we reported net income to shareholders of $8 million compared to $43 million in 2010.
Book value per share increased to $329 per share at March 31 2011 from $326 per share at yearend.
The effective tax rate was 14% in 2011 compared to an effective tax rate of 31% in 2010.
The decrease in 2010 was due in part to anticipating comparable levels of tax exempt income or estimating lower pre-tax income in 2011 as compared to 2010.
Now I'll make a few comments about cash flow and the balance sheet.
Regarding cash flow net cash used by operating activities was approximately $9 million to the three months ended March 31 2011 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $4 million for the same period of 2010.
Historically first quarter is our lowest cash and earning quarter as we're paying employee benefit agent incentives pension contributions and other items of that type in the first quarter.
We would expect the numbers to improve in the second quarter.
Regarding the balance sheet investment and cash held at the holding company were approximately $800 million at March 31 as compared to a little less than $900 million as of September 31 2010.
The decrease is due in part to interest payment on debt.
At this point I will turn it over to Mike to further discuss the operations.
Thanks Anne and good morning.
The first quarter results for the North American operations were good especially Admitted segment growth in premiums were up significantly as Anne mentioned compared to the same period last year.
This was due in part to our growth in our Equine and Livestock Agriculture and Accidental and the FirstComp premiums in the first quarter.
Excluding FirstComp especially premium was up 8% which was slightly better than expectations.
The combined ratio was in line with budget in prior year.
The expense ratio was higher than prior year due to one-time offset in prior year for E&amp;L recovery.
FirstComp revenues for the first quarter exceeded expectations due to strong non-California performance across the region.
Encouragingly we are seeing stronger than anticipated audit and endorsement numbers due to better than expected payrolls.
Markel products training for FirstComp sales staff was also initiated in the quarter at regional sales meetings and all outside and inside sales staff of FirstComp has now received this cross-sell training.
In addition 400 Markel agencies have been selected as targets for opportunities with FirstComp.
This cross-sell effort has begun produce results and we are down to our first accounts in the quarter.
Expectations for the cross-sell revenue between FirstComp and Markel Specialty are being developed and will be monitored going forward.
Other highlights for the Specialty Admitted segment for the quarter include a new program kicked off by our Agriculture division that produced 75 new accounts in the quarter.
Our Boys and Girls Club program gained traction with the addition of key new accounts.
And we added a talent to our program division with the addition of Vicki Webb who has joined Markel with 20-plus-years experience with AIG.
Our E&amp;S segment wholesale divisions had a solid first quarter.
While however E&amp;S growth rates and premiums in the quarter were down 5%.
This decline was due primarily to a reduction of significant book of (fourth placed) business.
Excluding the reduction in this one program core wholesale premiums were flat to a year ago.
Our total core regional premium was up 7%.
This growth occurred in four of our prior described regions and across a number of our product lines.
We define core regional premium as the premium unwritten directly in the region whereas (inaudible).
Dealings with our national agents and advisory council were held in the quarter and the feedback from this group continues to remain very positive regarding our One Markel strategy.
We continue to focus our operational efforts on reducing the comp from received submissions delivering (inaudible).
And as a result we're moving some centralized resources back in the control of wholesale division and the regions.
Submissions for the E&amp;S segment were up 17% over prior year and the total number of (bads) were up 8.7%.
As a result of the increased submissions we continue to refine our (inaudible) by terminating co-performers and posting our efforts on those progress who are delivering the best results.
Our goals include (inaudible) service to our top agents eliminating co-submission interim on the targeted 20% to 30% of submissions pre-screening out those that we have real chance of driving.
And also by improving overall clearance data entries and core turnaround times.
Finally during the quarter we were very pleased to announce the appointment of Susan Swanson to Executive Vice President and Head of the Midwest Region.
Susan has been with Markel for 29 years and is a proven and experienced leader.
And we are confident she'll do a perfect job in Midwest for us.
On the other audit side we have both our product plans to launch in the quarter admitted architect and engineers professional liability miscellaneous errors and omissions and excess transportation.
We offer currently 15 to 20 other smaller product offering's that are in various stages of development.
We announce that we would no longer continue developing a crisis management product and have repositioned our product lines as well.
Joining our product line leadership team was John Termini as Managing Director Environmental.
John joined us from Aspen Specialty Insurance Company with 20 years experience.
He began his career in 1990 as a hydrogeologist and environmental scientist and I'm going to give you a heads up.
Don't ask me what that is on the Q&amp;A because I don't know.
In summary the (inaudible) environment for the most part has not improved and competition continues to remain very aggressive.
Now we are seeing growth in a number of our areas and we continue to be optimistic that all of the various initiatives at Markel in the North American operations would produce positive results over time.
I'll now turn the call over to Richie Whitt.
Obviously the headline news in our international operations for the first quarter was the catastrophes in Australia New Zealand and Japan.
Our international operations had losses from all three of these events and we recorded approximately $6 million to $7 million of losses related to them in the first quarter.
Just for good housekeeping our consolidated number for the three events is $69 million.
While this is a significant number it's not outside our expectations for these types of 4 magnitude events and the amount of business that we write in these countries.
At this point we believe we have a reasonable handle on our exposures to the Australian floods and the second New Zealand quake and we're comfortable with our reserves for these events.
The Japanese quake and Tsunami situation is still evolving and the extent of the losses is still being determined.
We have already seen several insurers coming out and increase their initial estimates.
While we have established what we believe is a conservative reserve for Japan of approximately $35 million in our international operations - that would be $37 million consolidated this number is subject to greater volatility.
We are going to be watching developments very closely over the next several weeks on the Japan situation.
The insurance market is reacting to these events and property prices are moving up.
At this point and I think I'd characterize the market as fluid as buyers workers and insurers are trying to find what the new market level is and by new market level I mean higher.
At Markel we expect prices to go up and we're seeking increases on all of our property business.
Turning to other items gross premium volume was up 22% in our international operations in the first quarter.
As Anne said this was primarily due to our Elliott Special Risks acquisition in Canada - it's now fully online and due to continued growth in our marine and energy book.
We had a nice first quarter in terms of growth in our international.
So we're off to a good start on that scorecard.
On the expansion front in the first quarter we gained approval for our representative office in Beijing China.
In addition we held the grand opening of our new office in Hong Kong.
These offices will help us continue to develop our presence and strategy in Asia.
In addition all of our branch offices continue to show slow but steady growth in the first quarter despite what is a very competitive market worldwide.
We're very pleased with the fees we are selling in these markets.
While relatively small today these platforms are an important component of our international strategy and franchise.
No different than in the U.S.
as Mike said it's still fair to say still very competitive in the market and mostly in our international operation.
Clearly the recent catastrophe losses and deteriorating operating performance of the past few years require that prices go up.
But at this point prices are really only moving in the lines of business that are affected by the previously mentioned significant losses.
To sum it up the first quarter was not the result we'd like to report to you.
However we do recognize the catastrophe losses are a part of our business and our response to these types of events is why companies buy our products.
At Markel we're proud of the part that we play in helping people recover from these events.
Thank you.
I'll now turn it over to Tom.
I'm pleased to report to you that we're off to a profitable start in 2011 in our investment in industrial operations.
And I look forward to your questions.
The strategic goals of the investment department are number one to protect and preserve the balance sheet through high quality fixed income investments; two to allocate as much as possible to higher total return equity investments; and three to increase the overall earning power and financial flexibility of the Markel Corporation through the ownership of a variety of profitable businesses.
I'm happy to report that we touched all the bases during the first quarter and that we continue to be on track to meet these objectives.
As for the numbers during the first quarter the total return for the investment portfolio was a positive 1.8%.
Equities were up 3% fixed income was up 1% and foreign exchange effects added 0.4%.
Additionally other revenues at Markel which are largely those of the Markel Ventures Company were $77 million for the quarter versus $40 million in the prior year an increase of 92%.
Markel's share of the associated EBITDA was $9.9 million versus $4.4 million or more than double the level of 2010.
A reconciliation of EBITDA with net income is available on the website.
The net of all of this is that even with the catastrophic events of the first quarter we are reporting positive comprehensive income and a new record-high book value per share of $329.09.
And keeping with our first strategic objective are preserving and protecting the balance sheet with the fixed income portfolio.
We continue to maintain a portfolio that is high quality and shorter ranges.
We don't think you get paid full for taking credit risk and we're sure of that you get paid for taking in pricing and currency risk.
Consequently our portfolio reflects those beliefs.
It's remains a matter of flat job amazement to me the long time interest rates are as well as they are given current policies and circumstances.
Now we are being cautious about these risks.
We do not understand and will not accept the current market offer for taking it.
We think it is more important to protect the portfolio against higher future interest rates.
As to our second objective of allocating as much as possible for higher total return equity investments during the quarter we continue to methodically increase the percentage of our portfolio invested in equities.
This has been our consistent pattern for the last few years at March 31 the total public equity portfolio including $1.787 billion or 54% of our total shareholders' equity.
As the (inaudible) of the equity markets in the first quarter of 2009 equities comprised only 45% of shareholders equity.
Since that time we have been methodical and continued with the investing in high quality public equity.
And in the first quarter of 2011 we continued that pattern.
While the returns on fixed income and equity investments have been remarkably similar in recent years I expected normal historical relationship to resume.
And I think it will be well served by maintaining an increase in our commitments equity and higher current gross margin.
We think that certain high quality common stocks remain at a cost evaluation and we are adding them to the portfolio.
And we plan to continue to do so.
We have been conservative in marching this percentage up gradually due to the soft conditions in the insurance market.
And we will remain modest in increasing this percentage until such time as we see tangible evidence of a hard new market and higher insurance pricing.
If anything we could be criticized for airing on (inaudible) as we've increased our commitments but that is the sort of area we remain safety first.
As to our third objective of building the earning power and financial flexibility of the Markel Corporation are owing a variety of profitable businesses.
We continue to be very pleased with the ongoing growth of Markel Ventures.
The businesses that producing results in line with our expectations and they are adding value to Markel.
During the first quarter the Ellicott Dredge Company acquired the Rohr Company which expands Holocaust's product lines from current (inaudible) design which are particularly well suited for (inaudible) model.
We expect ongoing organic and acquisition opportunities within the growing framework of Markel ventures.
Our portfolio and acquisitions remain conservative.
We believe in a (inaudible) which enable us to withstand the sort of catastrophic weather and natural events we experience during the first quarter and that we've showed a sort of financial catastrophe that occurred in 2008.
While having a balance sheet we build over the decade we've been able to respond the opportunities in the insurance investments and industrial world to put the value of your company.
We continue to see opportunities in all fields and I am pleased to report to you that we have the financial and human capital to make the most of them.
With that I'd like to open the floor for questions.
Just in the 10-Q and I guess on the call this morning as well you had mentioned there was higher personnel cost that had contributed to your expense ratio.
And I was just curious if you could provide any additional color around those costs? And then I just have one follow up.
The additional costs were largely around in incentive compensation true-ups in the first quarter.
And we had budgeted for this current year about 42% expense ratio.
So just slightly higher than what we have budgeted.
And then a question for Tom.
Looking at Markel ventures it seems to be having a common region denominator.
How the portfolio is structured with the company's locations? Could you maybe talk about how you've received (inaudible) the acquisition target network outside of the Virginia area? And just in your acquisition criteria it will be interesting at least to meet to know how the opportunities at least initially pop up on your radar? Well as you correctly noted a lot of thing we bought across have been in Richmond.
So there were local connections where we happened to know the people which is obviously a key in our comfort and growth dealing with the people in the sort of businesses that we have confidence in.
Ellicott is headquartered in Baltimore and TSI is in (inaudible) Texas.
So we will continue to expand the geographies that as we look at.
One of the wonderful things that's really beginning to occur and in fact there was a deal that we are starting to work on and see now is that the people in these industries and the companies that we have already purchased may know people that I don't.
And they have contacts in their industry and people that they do businesses that they have personal relationships with that are interested in the permanent capital features of Markel Management.
So we'll be introduced to some really high quality people and sometimes do happens this is outside of Richmond Virginia and there is more outside than inside.
So we don't have limits on the (inaudible).
The contribution of Elliott in the quarter you've described how you had shifted from MGA the risk-bearing.
Is there a incremental revenue number associated with them? Yes Elliott that's worth about $100 million in gross written premium and year.
So it's probably about $100 million and we obviously bought some reinsurance on that.
So in terms of new written premium maybe a bit less.
But annual run rate's about $100 million.
And then the incremental contribution in the quarter since its close in 2009 was that transition? Did you get a extra pickup associated with that transition in this quarter? So that is a $21 million increase over fourth quarter of last year.
How are you looking at the workers' comp segment now? Seems like there has been some volatility there among public players.
You are doing quite well outside of California.
What's your sense now on pricing competition in that market? It's still rigorous.
The competition is real but we have a lot of confidence in the model at FirstComp.
And keep in mind that FirstComp writes workers' compensation on very very small risks and very small premiums and we have no intentions of changing their method of doing business and getting into the more broader workers' comp market.
The workers' comp market's tough.
What's happening is that they have a strong understanding of the metrics in their business and as we said in my comments we're shipping away from California and feel good about the growth in non-California states.
Two cents on the pricing there; if we look year-over-year sequentially anything you can share? In terms of pricing there may be some slight changes and now a lot of changes in the market.
But as far as FirstComp FirstComp is waiving their prices.
Richie I think you described a fluid market looking to see where rate will settle.
Any range you indicate a share? What's your judgment about what happened with pricing there? I wish I knew Mark.
If you point the individual risk you can get 25% to 300% it just depends.
So I don't think you can look at individual risk and say where the overall market's going.
But I think it is fluid.
Customers are still trying to say hey prices should be flat; maybe even prices should be down.
Workers are working hard for them in some cases but on risk they conform to hey there is going to be a lot of activity the result would deteriorate and we need increases.
And the reality is we getting it on a lot of accounts now.
So I think there is no question it's going higher I think everybody's probably got to process what they are seeing this first quarter which is pretty ugly.
And I think that will hopefully add yield for them to go higher because quite honestly they need to.
I got a couple of questions.
How big was the California market to FirstComp when you acquired it? They were significant.
I don't have the breakdown right in front of me but suffice it to say that we in our business plan for this year have projected a significant shrinkage in our writings in California.
But it was significant for FirstComp.
And then you talked about new products in the admitted market.
Are those organically grown from your existing underwriting force or did you acquire talent from some place to develop these products? Beth I'm sorry say that again.
On the new products that you are offering in admitted is that internal expertise that you're using to develop these products or have you acquired groups of underwriters from elsewhere? Well we've acquired groups of underwriters over the last 12 to 18 months but the products that I mentioned that we launched in the quarter the admitted architects and engineers' professional liability we hired Glen Mangold last year to have that practice of replacing (inaudible) of architects and engineers who have retired.
And while that's in admitted product it will be sold across both the Markel Specialty and the E&amp;S segment.
The miscellaneous E&amp;O is an E&amp;S placement and the excess transportation is an E&amp;S placement.
We have attracted new talent over last year or so to add to our D&amp;O and management liability practice (Sao Bolero).
We attracted John Termini as I said to head Enviornmental.
We had (Owen) there for a while.
We think he brings a lot of expertise there.
Glen Mangold again replaced (11:00.40) as Head of Architects and Engineers.
So of this is replacing the talent that's retiring and some of that is coming from our existing talent.
And then on the expense level overall you mentioned that you targeted around 42%.
And I know you made some pretty significant investments in technology over the last few years.
Should we anticipate that your expense ratio should start to move lower or does it require a better pricing environment for you to grow the top-line in order to get that expense ratio to start moving lower? I think we are scheduling to sort of finish up the big project we have been taking on at the end of this year.
Unless we get a real shift in the market year I don't expect our expense ratio to change too much from what we are looking at today and that's probably that 40 to 42 range.
We have got some pretty stiff investments that we are still making through the end of the year.
Those will drop off significantly next year and that will obviously help us.
You saw that our net written is up pretty significantly in the first quarter and obviously that will start to earn through and I think those opinions will start to help us if we get more towards 2012.
And then on the pricing and access and surplus lines - I know that can be one of the toughest markets in a soft market.
We're hearing some noise from a lot of your competitors or re-insurers.
So that may be starting to improve.
What do you say? The declines have certainly slowed in lot of cases.
I mean Richie mentioned the property market which is a different environment in a sale because of the catastrophes we had.
But I think I would be remiss to say that we're seeing significant in pricing right now.
It's still very competitive.
What about the tornadoes in the second quarter? Do you think you have exposure to the April 27 28 events? Absolutely Beth; I don't think it's necessarily significant but clearly we'll have exposure.
And we're seeing clients come in.
The nature of tornadoes are you can't really predict where they go and have erratic paths.
And it really depends on where the properties are that you insured and what gets hit.
But I'm seeing numbers in terms of anywhere from $2 billion to 5 billion for those string of storms and we will pickup something on that clearly.
Okay.
And then one last question in Japan the loss that you incurred I assume those are on a primary basis and what was the nature was it marine exposure that you had or is that actual just property? Our exposure primarily comes from two types of risk there.
It would be reinsurance of domestic Japanese companies.
So we are re-insuring their property programs and provide the cash we cover there so we provide that type of coverage.
And then the other would be what we kind of call open market property but it's basically large multinational property accounts.
And so just as an example not necessarily that we have these accounts but a GM or a Wal-Mart companies that operate internationally buying international programs obviously had damage to locations in Japan.
So those are the two areas where our exposure would come from.
I just had a couple of questions.
The first is in the E&amp;S sector apart from the resolution of a large E&amp;O client where is the approximate source of the other favorable development in the E&amp;S segment like accident years or (inaudible).
Most of it is coming out of professional and products liability in the '07 to '09 accident years.
And also I guess changing direction a bit in your other lines your other revenues and other costs is there still a significant positive or negative contribution from any fee based business like any residual MGA excess that you have or is most of that transferred to the risk-bearing consideration? Most of the fee business coming out of Elliott Special Risks has transition.
So most of that is no longer in Other.
But we do still have some revenue in (inaudible) generated by the Aspen MGA operation.
My last question could you just repeat where your effective operating tax rate was for the quarter? If the tax policy changed how you'd see that over the year? The effective tax rate was 40% which compared to 31% in 2010.
And in my comments the decline is in part due to anticipating lower pre-tax income but the same are now at comparable levels of tax-exempt income.
Additionally you're right we do have a change which we talked about at year-end relative to a lower effective tax rate on our foreign operations as a result of a change in our plans regarding the amount of earnings considered permanently reinvested in our foreign subs.
Basically what that means is if you don't plan on repatriating those earnings to the U.S.
you don't have to layer on top of U.S.
tax rate.
So that (inaudible) there.
And the other thing I'd just say is obviously with the substantial tax waive-off in the first quarter we are now estimating lower pre-tax for the year and that just makes the permanent difference on the tax exempts that much larger.
That tends to drive your effective rate down.
And I would say our expectation for this year would be a mid-teens rate.
Thank you much for joining us.
I'll remind you that our shareholder's meeting in on Monday May 9 at 4:30 pm here in Richmond.
So if that's going to find you in town stop by.
Thanks so much we'll talk to you soon.
Bye-bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner Chief Investment Officer for Markel Corporation.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gayner you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I am Tom Gayner and it's my pleasure to welcome you to the Markel Corporation's second quarter conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On today's call we will follow our normal line-up with Anne Waleski leading up with the financial results followed by Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt with operational comments.
Then I will discuss our investing and non-insurance activities.
After our comments we’ll all be available for your question.
Before we begin I am duty bound to remind you that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report Form on 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section under non-GAAP reconciliation or in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
With that I'll turn it over to Anne.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I plan to follow the same format as in past quarters.
I will focus my comments primarily on year-to-date results.
I’m going to start by discussing our underwriting operations followed by a brief discussion on our investment results and bring the two together with a discussion of our total results for the six month.
Moving right into the underwriting results gross premium volume was just under $1.2 billion for the first six months of 2011 up 18% compared to 2010.
This increase is due to higher gross premium volume in the Specialty Admitted in London Insurance market segment.
As of June 30 2011 the Specialty Admitted segment included $110 million of gross written premium from our FirstComp workers compensation operations which we acquired in late 2010.
The increase in gross written premium in the London Insurance market segment was due in part to an increase in premiums written by Elliott Special Risks which is now been fully converted from an MGA operation to a risk bearing operation.
We also saw significant increases in premium volume within our Marine and Energy division due in part to offering large loan sizes and an increased pricing environment.
Net written premiums were approximately $1 billion up 17% to the prior year.
Retentions were down slightly at 88% compared to 89% in 2010.
Current premiums increased 15% primarily due to the higher earned premiums in the Specialty Admitted in London market segments as a result of higher gross premium volumes compared to 2010.
Our combined ratio was 107% for the first half of 2011 compared to 102% in 2010.
The increase was due to a higher current accident year loss ratio and a higher expense ratio partially offset by more favorable development of prior years loss reserves compared to 2010.
The combined ratio for the first six months of 2011 included $99 million or 10 points of underwriting loss for natural catastrophes including the US storms in the second quarter and the Australian floods the New Zealand earthquake and the Japanese catastrophe that occurred in the first quarter.
Our 2010 combined ratio included $17 million or two points of underwriting loss related to the Chilean earthquake.
Favorable redundancy from prior year’s loss reserves increased to $151 million or 16 points of favorable development compared to $75 million or 9 points of favorable development in 2010.
The increase was primarily due to more favorable development of prior year’s losses in the Excess and Surplus Lines segment.
In 2010 favorable development of prior year losses was partially offset by unfavorable development of $63 million on the US errors and omissions program for mortgage servicing companies as well as Italian medical malpractice coverage and Australian professional indemnity coverage for construction professionals (inaudible).
All three of these programs are now in runoff.
Our year-to-date 2011 expense ratio increased approximately 1.5 points to 42%.
Our 2010 expense ratio benefited one point two one-time benefits a favorable arbitration settlement and an anticipated insurance recoverable.
Now turning to our investment results investment income was up slightly in 2011 to $134 million.
Net realized investment gains were $13 million which were flat to 2010.
Unrealized gains increased $170 million before taxes in 2011 due to increases in both fixed and equity securities.
Tom will comment with further details in his comments.
Looking at our total results for the first six months of 2011 we reported net income to shareholders of $39 million compared to $63 million in 2010.
Book value per share increased 4% to $339 per share at June 30 2011.
The effective tax rate was 40% in 2011 compared to an effective tax rate of 31% in 2010.
A decrease in 2010 is primarily due to having lower estimated income before income taxes in 2011 as compared to 2010.
Now turning to the cash flow and the balance sheet.
Regarding tax flow operating cash flows were $100 million for the six months of 2011 compared to operating cash flow of $64 million for the same period of 2010.
This increase was primarily due to higher cash flows from underwriting activities in Markel International due to increased premium volume.
Regarding the balance sheet investments in cash held as a holding company were just over $1 billion at June 30<sup>th</sup> compared to slightly less than $900 million as of December 31 2010.
The increase was due in part to $248 million of [court fees] from our issuance during the second quarter of unsecured senior notes with a 5.3% coupon to June 1 2021.
At this point I want to turn it over to Mike to discuss operations.
Thanks Anne good morning.
Second quarter results for the North American operations reflected some of the same trends we saw in the first quarter of 2011.
The rate environment was somewhat better in the second quarter.
We saw some firming in property rates.
However [casualty] rates remain competitive but the decline in rates was consistent with what we experienced in the first quarter especially in this segment gross written premium as Anne said increased year-over-year in second quarter for the same reasons mentioned in the first quarter.
We experienced continued growth in our Equine and Livestock Agriculture and Accidental health divisions in and FirstComp contributed an additional 51.7 million in gross written premiums.
Year-to-date gross written premium in the segment was up 7.1% over the same period in 2010 due primarily to FirstComp where gross written premiums totaled a 110 million.
At closing FirstComp gross written premiums were up 11% for Specialty Admitted segment in the quarter.
Other highlight for Specialty Admitted segment including an agreement with Sally-Mae Insurance Services to provide tuition refund insurance to their college and student loan customers.
We’ve also we’re able to gain a new Virginia eight to 12 student access program which previously written by Markel was very possible.
We lost the account in 2007 and we are very pleased to regain it.
The Agriculture division successfully launched a Facebook page Markel [host] and we already have over 600 fans.
This another entry into social media area testing the opportunities there for Markel.
We gained momentum on our core products of Equine mortality and farm business.
Mortality premiums grew 13% year-over-year in the quarter in farm premium growth was 19% over prior year.
At Markel America in our Personnel Lines operations we launched a new deductible reimbursement programs in six states and at FirstComp we made final preparations to enter two new states Louisiana and Alaska and appointed 72 and 29 agencies respectively in those states.
We completed product training for Markel’s Specialty products at FirstComp and actively began selling Markel’s [shop here] products to FirstComp’s agency base.
We also have appointed over 100 FirstComp agents today who previously did not have access to Markel’s products.
In the ENS segment the second quarter also showed continuing trends from the first quarter.
While overall growth written premiums declined 7% in the quarter this shrinkage was due largely to the loss of two significant accounts.
We mentioned the loss of a book of [fourth place] property business in the first quarter.
We also lost a relatively large auto account.
But I want you to keep in mind that we are comfortable losing revenue when it is not profitable or when pricing in our opinion becomes unreasonable.
Core regional premium for the quarter continued to increase by 2%.
We are very encouraged by the continued growth in our contract binding business casualty binding business was up 14% and property binding business was up 21% in the quarter.
Our wholesale broker [4-O] is progressing and we expect to go live in the third quarter.
We've made improvements in the look field and functionality of this website and in the underwriting and pricing of our binding business.
This quarter we will make it much more attractive and easier for agents to do business with Markel.
Our wholesale regions also held underwriting seminars with agency personnel throughout the second quarter.
We engaged over 500 agent representatives for product education and onsite quoting during these seminars.
Our underwriting product line leadership was also very active in the quarter.
Our product line leaders are in various stages of updating and providing authority standards and metrics.
We completed the updating of the environmental product line and expect to update inland marine and casualty in the third quarter.
We also launched admitted errors and omissions and admitted architects and engineers product in the quarter.
Numerous other product enhancements are in the works.
In summary all of our North American operations continue to focus on increased interaction with our agents and brokers product enhancements new product and program development and increased renewal retention.
We are encouraged by the growth in several of our business segments however we recognize there is still much to be done and the challenges that we face from both the rate and economic standpoint still exists.
Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
Many of the things Mike described in the U.S.
are true on the international side as well; as a result I’m going to keep my comments brief.
The rating environment that Mike described in U.S.
is very similar to what we’re seeing in the international market.
Cat-exposed property business is moving up however non-cat and casualty business continues to be very competitive.
While rates in these areas appear to be flattening out there is still abundance competition.
The second quarter was again acted in terms of cat events as Anne said.
This was highlighted by the devastating U.S.
storms.
In the second quarter Markel International recorded 10 million of losses in the U.S.
storm and increased reserves on the Japanese quake and tsunami by 7 million.
As I discussed on the first quarter call Japanese quake and tsunami situation was still evolving at that time.
During the second quarter many seeding insurance companies and direct insurers increased their initial estimated losses and as a result we increased our reserves by 7 million in the second quarter.
Losses tend to develop and settle very quickly in the Japanese market.
Our information on loss reports are much better today than they were at the end of the first quarter and as a result we feel we have established adequate reserves for these events.
Obviously given the magnitude of the quake and tsunami our reserves are still subject to volatility.
Gross premium volume was up 22% on the international side in the first half of the year.
As Anne said this was primarily due to Elliott Special Risk in Canada being fully integrated and due to continued organic growth in our Marine and Energy book.
On the expansion front we recently announced that we will be opening a branch office in Rotterdam The Netherlands and we expect that this office will begin operations late in the third quarter.
Also during the quarter we made a small agency acquisition in Sweden.
This expands and strengthens our branch office in Stockholm.
These activities are continuation of our strategy to build a global network of branch offices producing profitable specialty business in their local markets.
We are really pleased with the progress that all of our branch offices continue to make in particular the Elliott Special Risk team in Canada has done a terrific job of renewing and developing their book of business in a really difficult Canadian insurance market.
Finally I know we say it every quarter but I am going to say it again pricing in the property and casualty industry marked the increase.
2011 is all the proof you need with insured catastrophe losses of over $60 billion in the first six months deteriorating reserve position and core investment returns especially given recent events.
It’s a fact; you can’t write an underwriting loss and think you’re going to make it up on volume; people are kidding themselves.
At Markel we remain disciplined and are looking for opportunities to increase pricing to more appropriate levels.
That’s it from me and now I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richard.
I am pleased to report to you that we enjoyed a good first half of 2011 in our investments in industrial operations and I look forward to your questions.
In the midst of turmoil in daily financial markets it’s important to remember the longer-term underlying and unchanging principles we used to make decisions at Markel.
As I stated last quarter and probably the quarter before that the strategic goal of the investment department are number one to protect and preserve the balance sheet from high quality fixed income investments.
Two to allocate as much as possible the higher total return equity investments.
And three to increase the overall earning power and financial flexibility of the Markel Corporation through the ownership of a variety of profitable businesses.
None of that changes but as the U.S.
government is rated AA or for those of you with long financial memories and about questionable financial episodes and some sense of irony is (inaudible).
I am happy to report that we touched all the bases during the first half and that we continue to be on track to accomplish our strategic goal.
As to the numbers during the first half the total return for the investment portfolio was a positive 1.2% equities were up 4.5% fixed income was up 3.6% and the CapEx added between 6%.
Additionally other revenues in Markel which are largely those of the Markel Ventures Company were $168 million for the first half versus $77 million in the prior year an increase of more than 100%.
Markel’s share of the associated EBITDA totaled $20.7 million versus $8.6 million of more than double the level in 2010.
As always the reconciliation of EBITDA for net income is available on the website.
The net of all of this is that even with the catastrophic events of the first half we’re reporting positive comprehensive income in Markel in a new record type of value per share of $338.66.
In keeping with our first strategic objective of preserving and protecting the balance sheet for the fixed income portfolio we continue to maintain a portfolio that is high quality and short duration.
Last quarter I said that we don’t think you get paid fully for taking credit risk.
This quarter I would amend that to say we now don’t think you get paid at all and we sure don’t think you get paid for taking inflation and currency risks.
Consequently our portfolio reflects this belief.
For yet another quarter it remains a matter of slack-jawed amazement to me that long-term interest rates are as low as they are given current policy and circumstances.
While we have been and continue to be early in being cautious about these risks we do not understand and will not accept the current market offer for taking them.
We think it is more important to protect the portfolio entirely through interest rates.
As to our second objective of allocating as much as possible to higher total return on equity investments during the quarter we continued to methodically increase the percentage of our portfolio invested in the equity.
This has been our consistent pattern for the last few years.
As June 30 the total public equity portfolio grew to $1.84 billion or 55% of our total shareholders equity.
As the major of the equity markets in the first quarter of [2009] equities comprised over 45% of our shareholders equity.
Since that time we have been methodically and continuously investing in high quality public equities and the first half of 2011 continues that pattern.
While on fixed income and equity investments have been remarkably similar in the recent years I expect the normal historical relationships to resume and I think we will well served by maintaining and increasing our commitment to equity as time goes by.
High quality equity now offer the biggest equity risk premiums since the 1950s.
We think we are getting paid well to take that risk and we are doing well.
Fortunately through the aggressive actions of my insurance colleagues who have worked tirelessly to find new profits and new ways to serve our customers as well as with acquisition of Aspen premium volumes are beginning to increase at Markel.
With higher premium volumes and the capital strength and cash that we have right here we are in a wonderful position to step on the gas a bit harder and accelerate our purchase of equities.
We can also do this and pick up investment income at the same time given the dividend yields of high quality common stocks.
Given all those circumstances and current prices expect to see us buy more stocks.
We also think that this is not a common view in the industry and will serve to differentiate us as time goes by.
As to our third objective of building the earning power and financial flexibility of the Markel corporation by earning the variety of profitable businesses we continue to be very pleased with the ongoing growth of our Markel ventures.
The businesses are producing results in line with our expectations and they are adding value to Markel.
During second quarter we purchased PartnerMD a concierge medical practice with three offices in Virginia.
We’ve known the principles of PartnerMD for years and we are excited and confident about the future contributions to Markel.
With a permanent capital base that Markel provides and the changing medical landscape we think we offer an excellent home for general practice physicians to deliver high quality care to the patients.
While the initial transaction is small we are optimistic about the future growth and profitability with PartnerMD.
We also continue to work on other transactions and we expect ongoing organic and acquisition opportunities within the growing framework of Markel Ventures.
Our portfolio and our acquisitions remain conservative.
We believe that our fortress balance sheet which enabled us to withstand the sort of catastrophic and natural events we experienced during the first half and then withstood the sort of financial catastrophes that incurred in 2008 as well as the current drop in the barometer.
By having the balance sheet we built over the decade we've been able to respond to opportunities in the insurance investment and industrial world to the build the value of your own company.
We continue to see opportunities on all fronts and are pleased to report to you that we have financials and human capital as well as the courage and creativity needed to make the most of it.
With that I’d like to open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducing a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Beth Malone with Wunderlich Securities.
At the beginning of the presentation you talked about an account in Virginia that you had lost.
There was an education account that now you got it back lost in 2007 got it back today.
What changed or why did that move back to Markel?  I don’t have the exact answer to that.
My guess is that you know they were unhappy with the current environment and service from the current carrier.
You pointed that out is this typical of what's been happening for Markel as pricing has been so soft and you all have refused to participate is this an indication that the market is starting to appreciate the value of Markel's services or something? And we should anticipate that this is part of all pricing getting better or the environment improving for Markel? I think it makes sense to look at that from that standpoint to some degree.
I can tell you that we are beginning to see some initial situations where business that we either decline for pricing reasons or we are not able to attract for pricing reasons it is showing up in some of our submissions.
On the specialty side just the other day I heard of several accounts that are coming to us that are right up our alley that we think we’ll have an opportunity to ride because of a more favorable rate environment.
But I want to caution you.
I think this is just the beginning and we’ll see how it plays out but we are encouraged by what we see.
And then just on the topline growth in the international you said that the acquisition of Elliott was a big factor there.
Exactly what kind of rate increases are you seeing on the international book and how important is that to the growth you saw in the second quarter compared to a year ago in the international business?  I mean I think the only places that we’re really seeing rate increases would be cat-exposed property and in the energy classes some of the energy classes.
That is a pretty much it.
What we are seeing there I think is flattening out in some of the other areas and Mike was talking about accounts that may be moved away from a few years that have shown back up and we are seeing some of that in London as well.
We were dampened with losses in professional account over the last few years and all of a sudden they are coming back to us with the little bit better pricing and they may be unhappy with their current situation.
So I think as Mike said there is a positive signs out there but to say that is much in the way of price increase and the growth that we are showing right now in London very little.
Elliot Special Risk is on a yearly basis about 100 million of premium and so that we are seeing coming through by numbers though the first six months about half of that.
And then on the Marine Energy side yeah we are seeing a little bit of price increase there.
We got some organic growth just because of some of the dynamics in that market.
Okay.
And then just as a follow on with all the losses you guys described that you had in the industry experienced in the environment the low interest rate what do you think is the major reason that we are not seeing more of a across the board rate increase in the market place.
Is this really due to the weak economy? Yes it think a lot of it and I think also in 0% interest rate the acceptable rate of return that people are willing to lay their capital out for is supporting all that.
That’s why or really the normalized cost of capital that is out there but I think that’s the reality of what happened on the day-to-day basis.
Okay.
And then one last question to you Tom as the valuation of the market place has changed pretty dramatically over the last couple of weeks and the outlook I am not sure what the outlook is anymore in terms of economic recoveries.
But do any of these factors change your appetite for the types of companies that you -- I know you have a very defined thing that you are looking for but is this all through it all the kind of companies you are looking for to partner up with? It doesn’t alter what I am looking for all what it alters is the ability to few clients what I am looking for.
That’s a price lower.
So I always look for profitable businesses run by managers [inaudible] measures of capital integrity they have the ability to use the capital and they are priceless.
So the only things changed in the [inaudible] they are priceless there is stuff on sale an opportunity to find those first reaction we sort of are looking for.
Now that said is there a limit as to how much capital you are willing to expose to that particular type of investment?  Absolutely.
The shareholders equity account or stock what’s the ultimate amount of capital to allocate that risk but you’ve got a lot of flexibility being where we are and not holding the number and reasonable reporting and that’s what we think will earn the best returns on capital which has some lovely attribute making its own capital assets.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Fox with Fenimore Asset Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Number one for Tom what were some of these more recent acquisition? Can we get an update on the run rate for revenues for ventures? Yeah.
I think 275 to 300 million at the top line is the run rate here.
Okay.
Terrific.
I don’t know who is disclosed first that 15 million year-to-date I guess excess losses or reserve take up whatever.
My question is are those actual losses or is that kind of bringing that up to the Markel standard margin of safety and it’s the ladder where are you in that processes? John its Richie you know we kind of talked about probably in the fourth quarter call that we expected FirstComp to be at a underwriting loss this year as we got to the third quarter.
Right.
Yeah.
we though we have maybe $30 million underwriting loss this year at FirstComp as we sort of move toward our reserving standard as we layered our conservatives among the pick and all those sort of things and I think we’re six month we are right on target for that.
So things are going basically as we expected actually maybe things going little bit better than we expected because we’re starting to see a little bit of price move in the workers comp market and god knows it need it so we’re hopeful.
Okay.
So that run rate really is going to continue this year? Yeah we’re right on target there.
Okay.
And Richie while I have you I think because you are the international guy.
Could you talk about the 10 million in the Marine energy I mean you put in the cat table were they really cat.
What were the nature of those losses? They are energy losses basically.
We are growing our marine and energy book significantly we’re probably going to write rough number is 250 million in marine and energy this year.
So that book is getting substantial.
As you know John the we keep as much as of it as we can possibly can.
So we have a reinsurance program where we keep pretty much $10 million at the bottom of the program.
So we had two relatively sizable losses in the book of $250 million book of business that and take a few of those dips.
Right.
But these were fairly early in the year.
So they are not really CAT but just large losses and we are going to expect to have a few of those in year on the $250 million book.
And we will see how the rest of the year plays out.
And what’s the catalyst for that loss and obviously have few type of damage that is kind of a one-off? One was an offshore will platform that sustained some serious damage.
The other one was a pipeline spill where there is some clean up costs and obviously fixing of the pipeline and various things like that.
So two pretty big loses to the market and we participated on those.
Okay and I think this is for Anne.
And the June debt offering what are your plans for the proceeds? Well right now the parties I think we set any offering there for general purposes and potential acquisitions.
We are generally viewing them as increasing our flexibility to take action where we see opportunities for instance if had an opportunity which I don’t think we will do at the moment to buy back some of the 2013 we would exercise that option and if had an M&amp;A opportunity that we thought was really interesting we can do this for that.
So right now it’s really just increasing our flexibility to do any number of things.
And the 2013 is there a call feature or why can’t you repurchase them? I do think that the purchase prices right now are very attractive.
We can repurchase them.
I just don’t think we will at the moment.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you very much.
The favorable development in the excess and surplus anymore detail you can provide what the specific lines benefited is in this case?  It was pretty much a core business in our binding property casualty business.
Professional liability right? Yeah primarily professional and products liability and it was within the ’06 and ’09 accident years.
Yeah.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And then the expenses in the Specialty Admitted and the London segment were fairly low this quarter.
Would you expect that to be sustained or is this just a little random variation? I think part of that is – if you are looking at the expense ratios being driven by the increase in earned premium as well as first Tom has a slightly lower expense ratio within Specialty Admitted.
Right.
So assuming the earned premium trends hold up and the expense ratios should continue to be a little more modest?  I think you can assume that yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with your question.
If we take out the primary development and the significant catastrophic losses we still saw a four or five percentage point increase in the loss ratio for excess and surplus and Specialty Admitted.
I was wondering if you could talk to that a little.
Meyer what I can tell you at a high level is some of that is related to mix of business Mike allude to some of the accounts that have moved on so there is some of mix of business in that.
With the addition of Aspen within Specialty which is adding to that and then there were those large losses that we talked about and that Richie just covered.
Okay.
One of the point its worth adding Meyer is we've consistently stated this reference for decades on what else to –we try to reserve on day one in light of the levels that’s more likely to be done in the specialty.
So that you’re seeing pretty normal reserve development this year we will (inaudible) but we exit out in 2011 (inaudible) is the sort of thing that we try to look and have been practice here in Markel rather than extraordinarily.
I understand that and I have always assumed that.
I was just wondering about the sequential change from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2011.
With regards to 100 first [comp] agents that you said are emerging from Markel is that for all Markel products then?  No it would just be for our specialty product lines we’ll chalk here so services and some things we expect to see duplication in terms of the kind of the current business as first comp we’re writing.
You know I think then in the first quarter that we had gone through all our first comp agents and identified about 400 agents where we thought there was opportunity to cross sell Markel products and we’ve now appointed about 100 of them.
Okay but that's for very specific products.
It's not the entire portfolio?  Right.
Okay.
And last question for Tom if I can.
Will you look at I guess where we're seeing incremental investments obviously the equity portfolio is growing a little bit.
We're also seeing foreign governments and short-term investments grow very rapidly.
Is that just timing or is there something particularly attractive there? That would be some reflection as we run our business (inaudible) and just like we match the insurance liabilities in the U.S.
against largely U.S.
based securities when we write business overseas we tend to match that in a local currency investment and some sorts of that we build pay currency with on the balance sheet.
Okay.
So is the way you are addressing that through government issued securities of those equities? Largely but there are some equity that we own and that gets into nomenclature as well because you know for instance you know its no secrets that we own Biagio Biagio shows up on the statements as a UK-based company and North America is their largest market.
So it’s a little bit definition to describe that in international numbers.
Similarly that also appears in cat attractive and has done more business overseas and in U.S.
for decades.
That shows up that the U.S.
based investments and I would largely describe that as more powerful which is outside of course of U.S.
(inaudible) Okay.
Meyer you also keep in mind we had the debt offering in the second quarter and obviously we haven’t gotten around to allocate that out to the portfolio yet.
So until that happens you put it in fairly short term treasuries and money funds and various things like that.
And as Tom said we are fairly measured in how we do things.
So overtime we will reallocate that into the longer portfolio or to Markel Ventures or to equity.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah thank you.
A couple of questions first is on the ventures because you had talked about Tom what you thought a normalized level of revenue would be and the bottom-line the income sequentially jumped up and obviously been adding to that business should we look at this quarter as a fairly normalized earnings contribution as well as is there anything unusual in that number that either helped or detracted from the number? No we are quite too early in the history of Markel Ventures annualized third quarter.
The businesses are doing well but as you might suspect from having known Markel for a long time we are not running them in 90 days for increments.
We are thinking about the long term economics and I mean obviously with the way they are doing and we expect more of the same but that doesn't come out on 90 day.
And then a number’s question as we look at the operating earnings excluding net realized gains it looks like the tax rates on the operating earnings in the second quarter is relatively low and I am wondering if there is anything distorting that? Jay that's just going to be the fact that pre-tax is dropping but we have a pretty static allocation to tax exempt bonds so that permanent item that tax exempt amount becomes a larger percentage of the pre-tax and that goes against the operations.
It’s also that we have a lower rate on the foreign operations in that.
Got it; that does explain it.
And then if I could squeeze one more in for Tom Gayner Tom I wouldn't mind if you would reflect a little bit on this action by S&amp;P and specifically what it might mean for your muni-portfolio going forward? Well I don’t think that it really is a surprise to the marketplace quite frankly with respect to determine rank of the last 48 hours or so I don’t think it makes any difference at all.
We’re well upon and in terms of your muni part of your question from Richmond Virginia and that happen to note that the Commonwealth in Virginia is in surplus this year as it was last year and I think there were something like when we started 30 sticks AAA rated accountings in the country and we are calling from one of them and another one of them (inaudible).
When you look the state and municipal level of finance actually it looks better than the federal government; largely that they are operating on a shorter winch and they have a balanced budget requirement so actually pretty good about the [community] and one of the points that I noted to our Board if you look (inaudible) the City of Atlanta as an example switch over to (inaudible) 401 (k) style plans from a defined benefits plan.
That’s not a passion of conservatism to grow with the Atlanta City government so the fact that the reality was they needed to change to keep the doors open they did and you’re saying basically valuable makes tougher harder and I would argue better decisions with (inaudible) It sounds like a very sane view nice to hear something that sounds sane these days.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of David West with Davenport &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your questions.
Returning back to expense questions a little bit.
I wonder if there are any comments relative to the One Markel initiatives or are those pretty much winding down? I don’t know we had much in the way of comments really to one Markel as we talked about in prior calls that actually move to the regional model is now finished and implemented and working as we are getting good feedback from our distribution partners on how that’s working relative to some of the IT initiatives that we were working on relative to that specifically this year the data warehouse and the broker portal.
The broker portal is in a beta test stage at this point and data warehouses moving along as we anticipated perhaps slightly slower that we anticipated going to deliver the results we had hoped for.
So I don’t see know that there is too much to talk about in the sense ratio other than normal run rate senses from the IT project.
And I think this the last big year of spend on that and next year I think its just sort of run rate sort of IT investment the things you have to do to keep your IT competitive with rest of the market.
Very good and then the comp kind of returning back to Markel venture is there any particular seasonality in the patterns of revenues and profits that you can see right now with your portfolio?.
Each do have some seasonality associated with them but as that business grows and its spread widens different ones will be on different seasons.
So I don’t think we are going to see for now seasonality out of those types of businesses.
I guess we are partners and there might be [inaudible] on that.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gayner there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to you for any closing comments.
Well thanks so much for joining us.
We are available as always and we appreciate your loyalty and support and we will talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner Chief Investment Officer for Markel Corporation.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gayner you may begin.
Thank you Devin good morning.
It is my pleasure to welcome you to the Markel Corporation's third quarter conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
On today's call we will follow our normal line-up with Anne Waleski leading up with the financial results followed by Richie Whitt with operational comments.
Mike Crowley is unable to join us today so Richie will share and cover his comments.
Then I will discuss our investing and non-insurance activities.
After everyone’s comments we’ll be all available for your questions.
Before we begin I am duty bound to remind you that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report Form on 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section under non-GAAP reconciliation or in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
With that Anne.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I plan to follow the same format today as in prior quarters.
I will focus my comments primarily on year-to-date results.
I will start by discussing our underwriting operations followed by a brief discussion on our investment results and bring the two together with a discussion of our total results for the nine months.
So moving right into the underwriting results gross premium volume was just under $1.8 billion for the first nine months of 2011 up 16% compared to 2010.
This increase was due to higher gross premium volume in the Specialty Admitted in London Insurance market segment.
As of September 30 2011 the Specialty Admitted segment included $170 million of gross written premium from our FirstComp workers’ compensation operations which we acquired in late 2010.
The increase in gross written premiums in the London Insurance market segment was due in part to an increase in premiums written by Elliott Special Risks which been converted from an MGA operation to a risk bearing insurance division.
We also saw significant increases in premium volumes within our Marine and Energy division due in part to offering large loan sizes and an improved pricing environment.
Net written premiums were approximately $1.6 billion up 15% to the prior year.
Retentions were down slightly at 89% compared to 90% in 2010.
Earned premiums increased 16% primarily due to the higher earned premiums in the Specialty Admitted in London market segments as a result of higher gross premium volumes compared to 2010.
This Specialty Admitted segment included $147 million of earned premium from FirstComp.
Our combined ratio was 105% for the first nine months of 2011 compared to 99% in 2010.
The increase was due to a higher current accident year loss ratio partially offset by more favorable development of prior year’s loss reserves compared to 2010.
The combined ratio for the first nine-months of 2011 included $133 million or 9 points of underwriting loss for natural catastrophes including the Hurricane Irene during the third quarter the U.S.
storms in the second quarter and the Australian floods the New Zealand earthquake and the Japanese catastrophe all of which occurred in the first quarter.
Our 2010 combined ratio included $17 million or 1 point of underwriting loss related to the Chilean earthquake.
The 2010 combined ratio also included $72 million or 6 points of underwriting loss on two programs now in runoff that were due to losses associated with the adverse conditions in the residential mortgage market.
Favorable redundancies on prior year’s loss reserves increased to $250 million or 17 points of favorable development compared to $181 million or 14 points of favorable development in 2010.
The increase was primarily due to more favorable development of prior year’s losses in the Excess and Surplus Lines segment.
Our 2011 year-to-date expense ratio was flat to the same period in 2010.
Turning to our investment results next.
Investment income was $197 million for the first nine-months of 2011 compared to $201 million in 2010.
Net realized investment income included an adverse change in the fair market value of our credit default swap of  $2.7 million.
Net realized investment gains were $25 million compared to $22 million in 2010.
Unrealized gains decreased $31 million before taxes in 2011 due to a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities partially offset by an increase in the fair market value of our fixed maturities.
Tom will go into further details in his comments.
Looking at our total results for the first nine months of 2011 we reported net income to shareholders of $92 million compared to $127 million in 2010.
Book value per share increased 2% to $333 per share at September 30 2011 up from $326 per share at December 31 2010.
The effective tax rate was 17% in 2011 compared to an effective tax rate of 31% in 2010.
The decrease from 2010 is primarily due to having lower estimated income before income taxes in 2011 as compared to 2010.
Next I’ll make a few comments on cash flow and the balance sheet.
Operating cash flows was $261 million for the nine-months ended September 30 2011 compared to operating cash flow of $173 million for the same period of 2010.
This increase was primarily due to higher cash flows from underwriting activities in the London Insurance market and Specialty Admitted segment.
Investments in cash held as a holding company were just over $1 billion at September 30 as compared to slightly less than $900 million at year-end.
Finally we have repurchased 85 000 shares of our common stock to $33 million in the first nine-months of 2011.
Now I’ll turn it over to Richie to further discuss operations.
Thanks Anne.
As Tom said Mike Crowley is not going to be able to be with us today.
Fortunately we have redundancy built into the system here at Markel and I’m going to discuss all of our insurance operations in his absence.
The third quarter for North America and international operations was relatively stable from rating standpoint.
The various entities out there to gather rate change data recorded that rate decreases have slowed.
In particular the CIAD recently released the commercial insurance market and survey reporting that rates for most lines of business and account sizes declined less frequently and at a slower pace this quarter.
CIAD members placed a large majority of U.S.
Commercial premium which gives the survey a level of creditability.
Markel own results confirmed that in some lines line rates have flattened while in other lines particularly the casualty lines they continue to show some weakness.
The competitive rate environment still exists and profitable business attracts many carriers buying for that business.
The trends were amazingly consistent in both the domestic and international markets.
Now I’d like to make a few comments for each of our divisions.
The Specialty division generated gross written premium of 154 million during the quarter this was an increase of about 50 million over prior year.
FirstComp premiums totaled 60 million in the quarter.
The premium shrinkage in other areas was due to corrective actions in our accident and health divisions and non-renewing underperforming books of business.
Year-to-date the divisions generated gross written premium of 432 million which is an increase of about 65% from prior year’s gross written premium of 261 million.
The increase was due to the FirstComp acquisition.
Highlights for Markel Specialty include we launched a new Nursery and Garden Center program in the quarter.
We completed work to initiate our first venture in social media with our Health and Fitness product.
Markel American our personal lines division went life with a wringers product it’s the largest provider of apartment community websites and wringer payment systems.
Cross-selling efforts between FirstComp and Markel continue to gain traction.
20% of Markel’s – excuse me of FirstComp’s new business in the quarter came from agents that did business with both Markel and FirstComp prior to the merger proving that now that FirstComp is part of Markel agents are even more incline to do business with FirstComp.
Agents were who were Markel agents and are now appointment by FirstComp have been twice as productive on new business as existing FirstComp agents.
All these are really positive signs.
In addition we announced the appointment of Luke Yeransian as President of Markel Specialty.
Luke is the founder of FirstComp.
His experience in developing strategy analyzing distribution implementing best practices in metrics management and engaging technology are going to be invaluable as we continue to fine tune our strategy in Markel Specialty.
<br>With regards to our excess and surplus lines segment gross written premium for the quarter was 237 million a decrease of 1% in the prior year.
Year-to-date gross written premium totaled 664 million versus prior year 693 million.
As we previously discussed this reduction in gross written premium is primarily due to the loss of two large programs.
Our core regional premium in the excess and surplus line segment was actually up 6% over prior year in the quarter and up 5% year-to-date.
So encouraging signs there.
Highlights for the excess and surplus line segment includes growth in our binding business as well as our growth in casualty excess in umbrella and property CAT business.
We completed and released the first phase of our broker portal which is an update of our website for our wholesalers.
This is providing much improved and faster experience for our agents for 14 of our highest volume products.
We are going to continue to frequently add functionality as we move forward.
We continue to focus on strategic initiatives with our national brokerage partners led by our wholesale marketing department.
This initiative has produced solid growth with our 12 largest wholesalers for the first nine-months of the year.
Submission counts continue to rise in all of our regions a clear indication our marketing efforts are producing results.
While it was held early in the fourth quarter I do want to mention that we had a very successful and intense national conference.
We conducted over 128 meetings with our wholesale partners out in San Diego last month.
At Markel International we generated gross written premium of 194 million in the third quarter and 677 million for the nine months.
The increase for the nine months was approximately 14% this was adjusted for the impact of currency movement and represented organic growth in our Marine and Energy’s division and the ramp-up of written premium from our Elliott Special Risk division.
Highlights for International include our Marine and Energy team continued to produce solid premium growth rates continue to modestly increase in the energy sector and rates appear to be flattening in other areas.
Our team in the new Rotterdam office have moved into their permanent space and wrote their first policy in October.
We are currently preparing for the January 1 renewals when the significant portion of professional liability business renews in Holland.
Our trade credit division continues to progress nicely and has written its first business from staff we added to our Singapore branch.
Finally we recently appointed Paul Jinx to the board of Markel International.
Paul has done a tremendous job leading our Marine and Energy team over the past ten years and his input will be invaluable as we seek continued profitable growth at Markel International.
Our product line leaders have been working hard to improve on process for binders submission acceptance standards and application acceptance standards.
We expect to see meaningful improvements in the fourth quarter which will lead to more efficiency.
Other highlights for our product line group includes adding contractor pollution coverage to our binding offerings in the fourth quarter.
We believe this is going to be a compelling offering for our contractors and will attract new business.
We’ve also launched a companion auto product and we’re now able to write auto coverage to support existing accounts.
We’ve had success in the environmental contractors and railroads to date with this new product.
This will be a differentiator for us as many of our ENS competitors do not have this capability.
With regards to pricing our product line leaders are currently working closely with our actuary to review our pricing strategies for all lines of business.
While this is always an on-going process we are placing a strong emphasis on those lines we feel need attention moving into 2012.
In summary the third quarter was a continuation of what we’ve been seeing in the market the last few quarters.
We have modest optimism for better rate environment for property lines and casualty lines are clearly flattening but certainly not hardening at this point.
We continue to revisit and refresh our product offering looking for efficiencies in our processes and to be strategic in our marketing efforts.
Our people continue to position Markel for success despite what continues to be a competitive marketplace.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Richie.
I’ve cover two general topics this morning and then of course try to answer your questions.
The first topic is our public investment portfolio.
Now volatility technically means movement and that would mean up as well as down.
When people use the word these days though they mean down.
And during the quarter volatility as it is used in the vernacular of our day reared its ugly head and down it was.
<br>For the year-to-date through September our equity portfolio declined 8.8%.
By the way volatility actually meant up in October and marketing the portfolio 30 days later would produce a very different result.
On the fixed income side interest rates continue to perform their world-class limbo dance and go lower and lower and lower.
As the consequence the coupon return was amplified by an increase in market values and we earned a total return of 6.3% on the fixed income portfolio for the year-to-date.
The combination of the two as well as the modest negative FX effect of negative 0.2% produced a total return of 2.8% so far in 2011.
As I stated last quarter and probably several quarters before that the strategic goal of the investment department are to number one protect and preserve the balance sheet through high-quality fixed income investment.
Two to allocate as much as possible the higher total return equity investment.
And three to increase the overall earning power and financial flexibility of the Markel Corporation through the ownership of a variety of profitable businesses.
That will continue to be the case in the years to come.
On the last call I emphasized that none of that had changed despite the new headline that the U.S.
government had just been downgraded from AAA.
This call I’ll reiterate in the face of the risk-on risk-off volatility pattern that dominates daily financial markets.
Measured against our goals I’m pleased with the progress we’ve made during 2011.
First we are protecting and preserving the balance sheet by maintaining the high quality and short duration bond portfolio.
As is our goal over 90% of the fixed income portfolio is rated A or better.
And there’s a relay as supported with our own independent view of the underlying credits.
We do not rely on the opinions of rating agencies to make credit judgements.
We do our own work and refuse to buy a bond where we are concerned about whether they are money good or not.
We don’t always get it right but we don’t just take someone else’s word for it.
Also we continue to painfully allow the duration of the portfolio to shorten with the passage of time trying to maintain for improved current investment income by buying longer term bonds or by buying riskier credits looks like an incredibly dangerous game of hot potato to me.
I think that people with too short of time arisen or worry that they might lose their job if they under perform for a quarter or two along with people who are convinced that deflation will occur and drive interest rates lower are taking huge risk.
The space between the current level of interest rate and zero require an electron microscope to see it.
The space between the current level of interest rates and any that we’ve observed in 30 years is huge.
The risk reward ratio for long-term investors seems clearly unbalanced to me.
And as such we will continue to forego current investment income to preserve and protect Markel balance sheet by keeping the bond maturities short.
<br>Secondly we continue to allocate capital to higher return equity securities.
While the drop in market value during the third quarter the positive returns on fixed income and our own share repurchases combined to reduce the percentage of equity as a percentage of shareholders equity to slightly below 50% we continue to activity purchase equities during the third quarter.
We continue to do so now and fully expect to increase the percentage of our capital and equities in future quarters.
As always we will be measured and systematic in doing so.
I remain of the opinion that high quality global franchise firms represent the best place to put the bulk of our capital these days.
<br>By the way as we do so we are often not giving up any current investment income as given in yields equal or even exceed for fixed income on part of this.
Additionally as indicated since 2005 when we acquired majority interest in AMF Bakery equipment increase in the earnings power and financial flexibility at the Markel Corporation means acquiring control interest in non-publically traded firms.
<br>Markel ventures is a group that conducts this activity.
Through the first nine-months other revenues at Markel which are largely those of the Markel venture company were $260 million versus 125 million in the prior year an increase of more than 100%.
Markel share of the associated EBITDA totaled 34.2 million versus  16.2 million or more than doubled the level of 2010.
As always a reconciliation of EBITDA to net income as available on the website.
<br>The net of all this is that even with the catastrophic events of the first nine-months we are reporting comprehensive positive income at Markel.
During the third quarter we announced the purchase of Weldship which closed in the fourth quarter and will be included in our results going forward.
Weldship makes two trailers and other storage containers for industrial gas applications and is a market leading company in this share of operations.
Our permanent capital alternative continues to be attractive to owners and entrepreneurs and I am excited about the addition of this profitable and durable business to Markel.
Additionally [inaudible] AMF acquired BAKETECH at the end of the quarter.
BAKETECH was well known to AMF and adds product line and customer relationship depth as well as profitability to AMF.
We continue to work on other transactions and we expect on-going organic and acquisition opportunities within the growing framework of Markel Ventures.
Our portfolio and our acquisitions remain conservative.
We believe in a [inaudible] balance sheet which enabled us to withstand sort of catastrophic weather and national events we experienced during the first nine-months and withstood the sort of financial catastrophes that occurred in 2008 as well as the current volatility.
By having the balance sheet and the business experiences we’ve enjoyed over the decades we’ve been able to respond to opportunities through insurance investments and industrial world to build the value of your company.
We continue to see opportunity on all fronts and I’m pleased to report to you that we had increasing levels financial and human capital as well as the courage and creativity needed to make the most of it.
With that I’d like to open the floor for your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I guess I’d like to first start off and focus on the runoff errors in admissions program for mortgage servicers.
I think it’s leaving a sizable dent in the otherwise very favorable reserved development.
I think looking back to earlier this year a large portion of liabilities relating to those problematic claims was resolved resulting in some favorable development.
And we’re now seeing some adverse development flow through again from these mortgage programs and I am just curious if there is any historical precedent pointing to what the sale looks like or at least how much longer until you think you would be out of the woods on this things.
Thank you.
Hey Vincent.
I think you maybe have misunderstood what was in the Q; that reference to those programs was for the 2010 comparison.
There is no development in this quarter for that and the programs have performed as we had expected thus far.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And then can you give any sense of where the FirstComp’s accident year combined ratio is running? I think we have talked about this shoot last fourth quarter that we obviously are going to be in a transition year this year and we’re working to sort of bring their reserves to the same reserving standards that we have here at Markel.
So the accident year is probably running into the tune of about 108-110 and we expect that to be about a $30 million underwriting loss for the year.
And we are actually running a bit better than that.
So the bottom line is we’re exactly where we would have expected to be at this point in terms of FirstComp and we are well on our way in terms of getting to our overall more likely redundant than deficient stance on reserves.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah good morning.
A couple of questions.
First with respect to – in  the other income line you had around $90 million 82 or so of that appeared to be related to Markel Ventures.
Is there something unusual or infrequent relating to the remaining 9 million?  That’s more than the amount we usual see through that line? That amount is related to the MGA operations still associated with Aspen FirstComp.
Okay.
Mark it’s probably worth pointing out that we took all of that business on to our paper as of July 1 so that will be running down as we move forward.
Okay that’s helpful.
With respect to Markel Ventures as I recall when that was a generally established you had sort of a $250 million acquisition budget and by my math it looks like we’ve pretty much used that up.
Has that been further authorized beyond that level or is my math a little bit off? There was never a budget attached to that; that was a description of how much capital we had committed to it so far.
So a rough over of magnitude what we have done so far but we would expect to do more going forward.
Yeah that’s fine.
I misconstrued that that was a budget then.
The next question I had the credit default swaps I guess there was a little bit of a drag as a result on the quarter.
How much longer do we continue to have those? 2014.
Okay.
I think that’s all of my questions thank you.
(Operator instructions).
Your next question Jack (Schrack) with Suntrust.
Thank you very much.
On the workers’ comp market with the firming we have seen there in terms of rates have you seen any recent change in the competitive landscape there? Yes.
Things are starting to happen in workers’ comp.
I wouldn’t call it a dramatic change but certainly in some of the more distressed markets particularly California rates seem to be going the other way.
In some of the other states maybe it’s more of a flattening of rates.
But certainly things appear to be a little bit ahead of the rest of the market in workers’ comp.
There certainly appears to be a movement afoot.
How about just in terms of any real competitive changes in regional versus national carriers.
Any flavor or color there? You know I don’t know of anything particular to point out there.
We’ve been in an incredibly almost suicidally competitive market for a long time.
I think particularly again in California things seem to be moving the other direction.
I don't know that you’d see a big difference between regional’s or monolines or nationals in particular.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Wendy Hauser with Martel Corporation.
Please proceed with your question.
My item has already been addressed thank you.
(Operator instructions).
There appear to be no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
There appear to be no further questions so we thank you for your participation.
We’re around here today and would be happy to hear from you.
Thank you as always for your support of Markel and we look forward to speaking with you soon.
Bye bye.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Markel Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Tom Gayner President of Markel Corporation.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gayner you may begin.
Thank you Lewis good morning.
This morning I have the dual honor of wishing you Happy Groundhog Day and welcome you to the Markel Corporation 2011 fourth quarter conference call.
We appreciate you joining us and we look forward to update you on our progress at Markel and answering your thoughtful questions about our business.
As is our custom Anne Waleski our Chief Financial Officer will update you on the numbers.
My co-president Richie Whitt and Mike Crowley will update you on insurance operations and then I will speak about our investment operations in Markel ventures.
Before jumping in the rule say that I must take a little swim in the Safe Harbor.
As such here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report Form on 10-Q and on pages 6 to 8 of our press release dated February 1 2012.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures either in the press release or in our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section under non-GAAP reconciliation.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I am going to follow the same format that I have in prior quarters.
I am going to focus my comments primarily on year-to-date results.
I will start by discussing our operational results a brief discussion of our investment results and bring them together with a discussion of our total results for the year.
Our total revenue grew 18% $2.6 billion in 2011 from $2.2 billion in 2010.
The increase was due to increased revenue from our insurance operations and our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Moving into the insurance results gross premium volume was just under $2.3 billion in 2011 up 16% compared to 2010.
This increase was due to higher gross premium volume in the Specialty Admitted in London Insurance market segment.
As of September 31st 2011 the Specialty Admitted segment included $227 million of gross written premium from our FirstComp workers’ compensation operations which we acquired in late 2010.
The increase in gross written premiums in the London Insurance market segment was due in part to an increase in premiums written by Elliott Special Risks which was converted from an MGA operation to a risk bearing insurance division during 2010.
We also saw significant increases in premium volumes within our Marine and Energy division due in part to offering large loan sizes and an improved pricing environment.
Net written premiums were approximately $2 billion up 15% to the prior year.
Retentions were at 89% in both 2011 and 2010.
Earned premiums increased 14% and included approximately $200 million of earned premiums in the Specialty Admitted segment from FirstComp compared to $37 million last year.
The increase in earned premium was also due to higher credit premium volume in the London Insurance Market segment compared to 2010.
Our combined ratio was 102% for 2011 compared to 97% in 2010.
Our goal is to earn underwriting profits and we are disappointed that we failed to meet that goal this year.
The increase in the combined ratio was due to a higher current accident year loss ratio partially offset by more favorable development of prior years’ loss reserves and a lower expense ratio compared to 2010.
The combined ratio for 2011 included $152 million or 8 points of underwriting loss related to natural catastrophes.
Including loss from the Thai floods in the fourth quarter and losses from Hurricane Irene the U.S.
tornadoes the Australian floods the New Zealand earthquakes and the Japanese catastrophe all which occurred during the first nine months of 2011.
Our 2010 combined ratio included $17 million or 1 point of underwriting loss related to the Chilean earthquake.
The 2010 combined ratio also included $75 million or 4 points of underwriting loss and two program now in run-off that were exposed to losses associated with the adverse conditions in the residential mortgage market.
Favorable redundancies on prior year’s loss reserves increased to $354 million or 18 points of favorable development compared to $278 million or 16 points of favorable development in 2010.
The increase was primarily due to more favorable development of prior year losses in the E&amp;F segment.
Our 2011 expense ratio was 41% that's down approximately 1 point as compared to 2010.
The lower expense ratio in 2011 was primarily due to lower cost associated with our system and business process initiatives and lower profit sharing expense.
Next I’ll discuss the results of our Markel Ventures operation.
In 2011 revenues from Markel Ventures were $317 million as compared to $166 million in 2010.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was $7.7 million in 2011 as compared to $4.2 million in 2010.
Revenues and net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to our acquisitions of RD Holdings often known as Retain Data and Diamond Healthcare in late 2010.
Moving to our investment results.
Investment income was $264 million for 2011 compared to $273 million in 2010.
Net investment income included an adverse change in the fair market value of our credit default swap of $4 million in 2011 as compared to a favorable change of $2 million in 2010.
The decrease in investment income was also due to lower investment yields which was partially offset by having a larger portfolio in 2011 compared to 2010.
Net realized investment gains were $36 million in both 2011 and 2010.
Unrealized gains increased $183 million before taxes in 2011 due to an increase in the fair market value of our fixed maturities.
At December 31st 2011 we held fixed maturities of $54 million or less than 1% of invested assets from insurers domiciled in Portugal Ireland Italy and Spain.
We had no [indiscernible] insurers in Greece.
We’ve additional $730 million or 8% of invested assets from insuers domiciled in other European countries including supranationals.
Tom will go into further details on investments in his comments.
Looking at our total results for 2011 we reported net income to shareholders of $142 million compared to $267 million in 2010.
Book value per share increased 8% to $352 per share at December 31 2011 up from $326 per share at December 31 2010.
The effective tax rate was 22% in 2011 compared to an effective tax rate of 9% in 2010.
Our effective rate in 2010 included a 11 points of non-recurring tax benefit related to foreign operations and our decision last year to permanently reinvest from those operations outside of U.S.
Next I’ll make a couple of comments on cash flow and the balance sheet.
Operating cash flow was $311 million for 2011 compared to operating cash flow of $223 million for 2010.
This increase was primarily due to higher cash flows from underwriting activities in the Specialty Admitted segment and positive operating cash flow from our Markel Ventures operations.
Investments in cash as a holding company were approximately $1.2 billion at December 31st 2011 as compared to a little less than $900 million as of December 31st 2010.
The increase in the prior year is primarily due to the issuance of debt during the second quarter of 2011 and dividends from subsidiaries offset in part by interest payments and stock repurchases.
Lastly we have repurchased 110 000 shares of our common stock for approximately $42 million during 2011.
At this point I would turn it over to Mike to further discuss operations.
Thanks Anne good morning.
My comments regarding the North American segments for the quarter will be brief.
We recognize that signals and opinions on the current market conditions are mixed.
However we are clearly seeing a property and casualty market that’s in transition.
During the fourth quarter we experienced casualty rates that were flattening and property rates increasing at a modest pace.
This is certainly an improvement over the rate environment that we have witnessed for a long time.
At Markel we began seeking modest rate increases in November and today our new and renewal business success ratios have remained relatively constant.
We are carefully monitoring responses to our right actions and we will seek additional increases where conditions warrant those increases without jeopardizing profitable business.
Our underwriters are telling us that competition remain strong but they are not having to “fight tooth and claw” for every renewal.
Though we are optimistic we’ll have to see if this trend will continue in early 2012.
As Markel’s specialty excluding FirstComp premium was up 4% in the fourth quarter versus 2010.
Including FirstComp Markel’s specialty was up 24% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date Markel specialty is up 3% excluding FirstComp and up 53% including FirstComp.
The main highlight in the fourth quarter at Markel’s specialty was the announcement of our acquisition of THOMCO.
This deal was closed in early January.
THOMCO brings to Markel a terrific track record of program development and administration as well as the seasoned and talented group of associates.
Greg Thomson [ph] and his team will become our admitted program division and Greg will continue his role leading THOMCO as he has done for 32 years.
During 2012 we will concentrate our efforts on moving the majority of THOMCO’s programs to Markel paper.
We will begin this process in April and continue throughout the calendar year.
Other highlights at Markel Specialty include the combination and reorganization of our property-casualty and Markel risk solution units into a more focused commercial business platform.
The new unit will be called Markel Specialty Commercial.
This combination will result in a more streamlined operation and a more clearly defined underwriting appetite.
We also took a myriad of concentrated actions in health units to improve the loss ratio.
These changes may reduce volumes but deliver a much improved loss ratio in 2012.
In the fourth quarter our E&amp;S segment generated growth of 12% in our core products.
In the fiscal year the growth in core products was approximately 7%.
This growth improved dramatically from the first quarter to the fourth quarter which is evidence that our one Markel initiative is consistently gaining traction with our agents and brokers.
Solution activity also increased lending further support to our belief that One Markel is working and that market conditions are in a transition to a better environment.
Our underwriting teams across the five regions of our E&amp;S operation should stabilize and we now have experienced underwriters for virtually all of our products in all of our regions.
We also continued the second phase of overhauling our agent’s portal to improve functionality and efficiency for those agents accessing us through our website.
We foresee a continued release of additional product classes available for automotive pricing underwriting and quoting throughout 2012.
During the fourth quarter our product line leadership group completed a review of all pricing for all major product lines and as previously mentioned began implementing changes in November.
We are taking a deliberate and class specific approach to pricing seeking increases across all product lines.
This has been communicated both entirely to all of our underwriters and to our agents.
With regard to new product development we finalized the contracted pollution coverage forum to offer us part of our binding casualty product.
We believe this will be popular with our contract of risk which is one of our larger classes in the binding book.
In summary we are entering 2012 optimistic that the rate environment is improving confident in our underwriting teams encouraged by the growth opportunities in both specialty and E&amp;S segments.
At this time I will turn the call over to Richie Whitt.
Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
I’ll be exceedingly brief with my comments as well as many other trends that we discussed in first three quarter of the year really continued into the fourth quarter.
Markel International generate growth rate and premiums of a $148 million in the fourth quarter and $825 million for the year ended 2011.
The increases for the year that was approximately 14% this is adjusted for the impact of currency movements.
Again this primarily represented organic growth in our marine and energy division and the ramp up of written premiums from Elliott Special Risks.
Elliott Special Risks is really fully reflected in our financials at this point.
As a result of organic growth strategic acquisition such as Elliott in the continued development of our branch office network 2011 represents the most annual premium we’ve written since the beginning of our international operations back in 2000.
As we all know top line growth is nice but it’s really all about underwriting profitability.
Unfortunately we fell short of our underwriting goal to a $124 million of catastrophe losses which included almost 19 million of Thai flood losses in the fourth quarter.
Well none of these individual losses or the losses in total exceeded our risk tolerance and still contributed to a disappointing underwriting results for the year.
It was a record year for insured CAT losses at about a $105 billion but I got to be honest it doesn’t make it feel much better.
We’ve already made adjustments to our catastrophes with the underwriting strategy and we’re going to continue to refine our approach as we move forward.
The biggest thing that could help us interns of making our catastrophe business more profitable would be achieving higher price this for our capacity.
Regarding pricing January 1 renewals in London we’re up in many lines.
We’re seeing similar things with – Mike mentioned in the U.S.
Property launch in particular were up on January 1 but I think there was a sense of disappointment as we might have heard that given all the significant activity in 2011 we would’ve seen a bit more in terms of price movement at Jan 1.
We’re going to remain patient and disciplined and when are we going to put our capacity out there when we feel like the prices are adequate.
We certainly can’t predict with certainty but we believe that prices will continue to strengthen both property and we think casualty will follow as the year progresses.
We’re certainly going to be pushing for additional rate on the things we quote and we will see what happens.
Well we weren’t happy to report an underwriting loss at Markel International and at Markel Corporation.
We don’t want to lose sight of the many accomplishments that our international team had during 2011.
We greatly expanded and strengthened our retail branch network and created a management structure to enhance our focus on the retail branch operations.
We just recently completed a small joint venture deal in Germany which is going to give us the opportunity to start really learning about the German market.
LE special risk as I said earlier is fully reflected in our numbers at this point and it’s performing extremely well the team has done a great job.
We’ve added key management talents and we continue to search for and cultivate opportunity to build out our Markel International footprint and platform.
We’re well positioned for 2012 and we’re really looking forward to it.
With that I’m going to turn it back over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
I’m [indiscernible] a variety of encouraging items from the investment and Markel Ventures components of Markel.
First let’s start with investments.
In 2011 we earned a total return of 6.5% on our investment portfolio fixed income earned 7.6% and equities earned 3.2%.
During the year interest rate started low and went lower.
As a consequence we over earned the coupon rates of return on the fixed income portfolio.
We continue to believe that rates are unnaturally low and suppressed by non-market forces.
As we painfully observed with natural catastrophes in our insurance operations this year Mother Nature can swat manmade artifices when she chooses to do so.
Consequently we remain cautious about what the forces of nature will do when the manmade levies protecting zero interest rates break.
As such we continue to maintain shorter than usual durations in our bond portfolio.
This means we forego current investment income in exchange for protecting the balance sheet of the Markel Corporation.
We are balance sheet oriented in all we do at Markel and we will continue to follow this path.
We just simply do not believe in an extended period of 0% interest rate and we are acting accordingly.
On our equity investments we’re at 3.2% in 2011.
While we don’t manage versus the S&amp;P 500 we do find it a valuable bogie to provide a frame of reference about what our investment return should realistically be over time.
I’m pleased to report to you that our return was a 110 basis points ahead of that index more and more over the two decades [indiscernible] statistics we’ve performed by 190 basis points per year.
We certainly think that two decades of data supports our case that we add value in our equity operations both against the S&amp;P 500 index as well as against fixed income alternatives.
Our core participants are buying stakes in businesses with good returns on capital run by honest and talented managers with reinvestment opportunities in capital discipline at fair prices works for both public and private investment opportunity.
Speaking to private opportunities 2011 was a very productive year for Markel Ventures.
For 2011 revenues came in at about $317 million versus a $156 million a year ago.
EBITDA was $37 million an 80% plus increase compared to the $20 million in 2010.
As always a reconciliation of EBITDA to net income is available on the website.
We added Weldship a manufacturer of tube trailers that serves the industrial gas market during the fourth quarter and we continue to have active discussions under way with others who would like to join Markel.
We continue to evolve reputation as a great home for passionate business people to build their organizations and we will report to you our progress as it occurs.
I’d like to point out that given the lower level of interest rate in general our investment income line which is interest and dividend income declined from $273 million in 2010 to $264 million in 2011.
That’s not surprising.
It’s just the math of lower interest rate coupled with our decision to protect the balance sheet by owning predominantly short term rather than long term bonds.
The invested income line is a gross pre-packed number that doesn’t take out interest expense factors depreciation or amortization.
As such I think it’s comparable to and I am comfortable with adding the growing EBITDA line for Markel Ventures to get engaged of what has happened under the hood at Markel.
When you do that the combination of these two items grew from $293 million in 2010 to $301 million in 2011.
By the way we also had gains of $36 million in both years that are not included in those numbers.
I think the fact that this number grew at Markel in the phase of lower interest rates and tough overall business conditions should provide you with a sense of optimism about your company.
I'm also optimistic about our outlook and I look forward to speaking with you in [indiscernible] to update you as we conclude down this path all [indiscernible] in which we can create value for the market.
With that I will stop and open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting the question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Arash Soleimani from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with you question.
Hi good morning.
I have a couple of questions.
Are you guys still seeing competition from standard carriers and if so how big of an impact do you think that’s going to have on the return going forward? We are continuing to see competition from standard carriers and it remains to be seen what that competition will look like.
We don’t discount while the market is in transition we expect to see continued competition from the standard carriers.
All right thanks.
My next question is have you determined the impact of the new back accounting yet on book value or? We are going to implement prospectively effective ’11 as required and we expect to see an unfavorable impact of approximately two points from the 2012 expense ratio.
Okay.
But [indiscernible] since you are doing it prospectively as of now right? Yes that’s correct.
Okay.
All right.
That’s all.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Hughes from Suntrust Investment.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah thank you.
Good morning.
The expense ratio you think of two points had the underlying expenses relatively steady or can we just make an improvement there.
I think we anticipate some improvement Mark.
Obviously our gross return is growing earned premium is growing and those help a lot.
We are also obviously working on the expense side of the equation as well.
So yeah we would expect our expense ratio to improve a bit in 2012.
All right.
The other expenses were up a bit this quarter compared to the other revenue.
Was that an anomaly what's the big effect there going forward? I don’t have it at hand but my gut instinct is it’s coming out of the increased acquisitions in the Markel Ventures realm relative to their increased revenues.
But we can follow-up offline if you want and get you a more specific answer.
I think it had been running the expense ratio in the recent quarters I guess relative to revenue is more like 80 high 80s would it be effective to return perhaps to that kind of a level again relative to other revenue.
We don’t think about it that way.
Let me make one qualitative comment and I would advise you to speak with Anne to get the details on this.
As I said earlier of course in this call and every other call in the history of Markel Corporation we are balance oriented and I would suggest you that that applies to the Markel Ventures operations as well.
So in purchase accounting and then accounting for the transaction that are involved we tend to be somewhat heavy handed and try to be conservative as possible to have the best balance sheet presentation possible and if that’s at the expense of income statement so be it.
So given the acquisition activity in the – we should have purchased accounting and that sort of thing that would probably be disproportional in the fourth quarter but I encourage you to follow-up with Anne for the details on that.
Yeah we also as we moved our assets from non-risk to risk bearing you may see some shift there.
But like I said we can take it offline and I can give you the specifics.
All right.
Are there any comments you can make regarding where you see a reserve redundancy you have the great fourth quarter releases very good year 2011.
The reserve redundancies in prior years have predominantly been in the professional and product liability lines as well as casualty programs for years between 2004 and 2009.
What do you think about that going forward? I would expect to continue to see prior year redundancies given our conservatism in reserving.
It is possible you could see the amounts right now.
Yeah Mark I guess I would add we talk about this probably every year.
We try to make sure at the end of the year the balance sheet is as at least conservative as it was at the end of the prior year.
We have been very consistent in terms of how we set loss reserves and our confidence in the loss reserve.
But as Anne said the reality is there is just not as much room in the last few accident years as there were in probably the '08 '07 '06 accident years.
So the reality is I think over time unless you start seeing price increases and we hope we are starting to see price increases you would expect those numbers to continue to turn down.
Thanks for that.
Our next question comes from the line of John Fox [ph] from Sunny more [ph] Asset Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
First for Tom.
Tom could you kind of give us an outlook given the acquisitions you made in the fourth quarter and then possibly you made one in January.
Maybe an outlook for Ventures revenue for 2012? Well sure.
The acquisition in January which [indiscernible] that's not part of Markel ventures.
But for instance you look at fourth quarter the other revenue line which is marginally described [indiscernible] so if you timed that by four that wouldn’t be wildly wrong for the existing set of businesses.
We are basically we are talking to people [indiscernible] Markel family over the course of the year.
But you can start off with that.
Then the other specific statement I made about the Markel ventures revenues in this [indiscernible] statement as well.
I encourage you to look at that reconciliation of the net income and what we have talked about the existing position of [indiscernible] percentages of EBITDA from the revenue [indiscernible].
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I had a question on THOMCO probably for somebody else.
Is it possible to quantify that impact and I guess it’s going to be in this specially admitted line.
Yes and THOMCO plays about $160 million of premium in 2011.
Okay so you would bring that on to your paper.
Not all of it in 2012.
We do plan to convert the majority of their programs over time to Markel Paper.
We are starting in April.
You are not going to see a $160 million in 2012.
It’s going to be a sort of a progression as the year goes by.
It’s about $60 million.
Our debt gaps today would be 60 but that depends on filings and all sorts of things and sort of how quickly we can get those programs move.
Right okay.
That’s very helpful.
This is probably a dump question after 2011 but what do you guys when you underwrite consider to be “normal cat load?” The normal cat load? That’s an interesting one.
I hope it’s something less than a $150 million which is what it was this year.
I mean – we’ll see points.
Yeah now 8 points we would think 8 points – I mean as I said you would agree at least the same they believe this year was a record cap year at a $105 billion.
So it’s really kind of has the 2005 and 2011 swap from [indiscernible] wanting to.
No 8 points I think we did a reasonable job of managing that tax free exposures and I would be very disappointed if we had another eight point kind of year.
I think I would have to go look John but I think typically when you run 2 to 3 points a year would be [indiscernible].
Okay.
I'm just wondering if you could talk about the balance sheet philosophy with over a billion at the holding company and you know the rate of return on – on the bonds being low as times described for good reasons you know.
Yield on your bonds is much lower than your interest expense on your debt and you have a lot of cash.
Your premium surplus is low that the ration is low.
So why do you shoot that and how are you thinking about the cost of your debt in the balance sheet at this point? You need to correct on each and every one of your points so in the last couple of months I would say that tempo of activity at Markel continues to pick up the pace.
So in terms of deploying net capital and fully recognizing what it costs our internal insurance operations can and are growing.
We have done a couple of acquisitions on the insurance side.
We have done a couple of acquisitions on Markel Ventures and we also repurchased some stock and we are going to have to be open minded about doing all of those things and every single dollar which we spend it on any one of those four items has been something that we think earns pretty good rates for return and we will productively using that capital and we see a lot of things in front of us that [indiscernible].
Okay well I will wait to see those.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah good morning.
Few questions.
The rate of growth in the E&amp;S segment was significantly higher in the fourth quarter than what we had seen in a while and I guess after your comments that you hadn’t really began pursuing rate aggressively in sort of the midpoint or the quarter I was curious that accounted for kind of the additional run-rate in the quarter.
Well this is Mike.
I just attended two of our agents counsels meetings down in Florida and the basic feedback that we are getting from the agents is the fact that the line Markel decision was the right decision.
We have the right underwriters in place in the field.
They are pleased with what they are seeing with Markel.
They say that I think product is at least if not considerably larger than most of our competitors.
There are a lot of factors that are playing into our growth.
And we clearly are getting some more [indiscernible] part of it in the fourth quarter.
But as you mentioned we really didn’t start going out because of some rate increases and they were modest rate increases until November.
But we are just seeing traction in the one Merkel model.
Our efforts are paying off.
We feel good about it.
Feedback we got from both our binding and our her [indiscernible] agents was very positive and the job we have to do now is just to continue that momentum.
Would you characterize that then as new business wins or just expansion of business with existing clientele? I think both.
Okay fair enough.
With respect to THOMCO could you talk a little bit about sort of what lines of business and what sort of products are involved there that you hope to bring over the books over the course of 12 &amp; 13.
They have a number of different programs and not all of these will leave [indiscernible] papers but they have a program for child care centers social services medical transportations senior living fitness clubs health control operators inflatable rentals and some others.
The medical transportation program is their largest.
Is the underlying product though is it you know commercial multi policy or is it something you know commercial auto would become? Yeah it’s more package business.
Okay package business just like our mix specialty business and you probably that markets a lot of – there is a lot of complementary programs there with the child care and social services and some of the other things.
It really is a nice trip.
Okay.
Imagine Mark if you would the Pittsburgh Steelers were in the Super Bowl and they won and you had a parting with inflatable rental you’d want to make sure your operator has insurance comfortable with these provider of that [indiscernible].
I worked for to getting some of that next year hopefully.
It’s consistent with what we’ve done before in the specialty segment.
Okay.
My last question you mentioned the share repurchases for the year.
Was there any question about that in the fourth quarter? There was a portion of that in the fourth quarter and that number is $8.9 million to roughly $9 million about 25 000 shares.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of J.
Cohen from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah thank you.
Tom give me a great idea for celebrating when the Giants win the Super Bowl this year? We’re having to tell the truth either color [indiscernible].
Just one follow up on THOMCO.
Have the margins – the underwriting margins for this business have historically been in line with what Markel has produced? The answer would be yes.
Obviously they have written with other insurance companies and they have their own pricing and own pricing models.
But we’re comfortable that the business will be underwritten with the same guidelines and the same conservatism that we write otherwise Markel Specialty.
Got it.
Other question interest expense take down a little bit I don’t see what the big change in the data outstanding to do go up a little bit.
I’m wondering what’s behind that in your fourth quarter I’m talking.
The fourth quarter yeah I’m not sure J.
but we can pull the details out on that and I can pick it up with you outside of this.
Okay.
I think that is – for now oh just one thing the expense ratio follows being equal two point increase in the expense ratio because of the change in accounting for DAC and that goes into 2013 as well correct? No that should all be in 2012.
Just in ’12? Right.
That’s helpful.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Barrie [ph] from Rainbow [ph] Capital Management.
Please proceed with your question Okay.
Mike question for you about FirstComp quickly I may be covering whole ground I apologize if that’s true.
So FirstComp this year a nice little bump up in revenues as you guys can play with obviously at this point not profitable and I was right on specialty admitted.
So what I was hoping you could explain to me is a little bit about the reason for FirstComp’s lack of profitability your plans for addressing it and the time line on that.
And maybe if you could give me just by way of explanation something of the compare and contrast with FirstComp and the rest of the businesses in specialty admitted so that we can think about how FirstComp will shake out compared to the other business in terms of long term profitability track.
When we acquired FirstComp we knew what the worker’s compensation market looked like and we knew that this would be a transition to the levels of profitability that would satisfy us to unfold.
They followed that I mean they grew more this year than we had anticipated but they [indiscernible] couple of new states where they were successful they continue to manage the California exposure well.
The challenge the worker’s compensation market is incredibly soft they have the issue with the various state regulars depressing the ability to price the comp the way we would like to.
At the same time really were successful and getting our cross sell efforts underway with the FirstComp sales people with FirstComp agents and we continue to drive growth in the whole specialty division by selling some of our other market specialty products to the FirstComp agent.
I think we were pointed several hundred FirstComp agents other 400 that we’ve identified at this point sell other Markel products.
We clearly are in constant discussions with the FirstComp team and this is a transition process in terms of their success and our loss ratio and it’s just going to take something.
Okay.
And do you have a sense of the rough time line for moving that forward and how do you think profitability will shake [indiscernible].
I could give you one of our I knew what the market was going to do.
But it’s got to be a continuous transition and I think that the – yeah I mean I would add to that maybe it’s a tough market and I take what the results the FirstComp right now are probably more about the market than what FirstComp I think they’re doing about everything we could ask them to do.
They were able to grow the business a little bit moving into some other states they didn’t de-emphasize in California.
California is great when it’s rolling and it’s terrible when it get to the bottom.
So what they have done is they have really diversified.
They are diversifying the book away from California which I think is going to take some of the cycle out of their book going forward.
The other thing we have been doing this year and we still got a little way to go we are getting them in line with our reserve and philosophy.
And so that’s a bit of a drag at the moment.
In terms of the result they report but they are moving in the right direction and you know probably ahead with our expectations were at this point.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And then one thing this is a fairly general question.
In terms of Merkel International and the expansion on the way over there and exciting things going on the journey and I think we retail branches and so on.
Outside of the U.S.
do you see that the places that you are going into do you see underwriting standards are above or below the U.S.
in general and so do you consider the international markets right for pickings or a tough way to expand? You know it’s amazing to me.
It doesn’t matter where you go in the world the markets are competitive.
Now some may be slightly less competitive than U.S.
and some are actually more competitive than U.S.
if you can believe that.
But it’s amazing how global the insurance market has become and they are all fairly competitive but what we’ve gone in and try to do is going with good teams that know that market and know what sort of price they need to be able to make an underwriting profit and we saw it and it’s small.
We are not going in there with a big splash we are going with small teams and looking to build to $20 million $25 million of volume.
It’s the same strategy that we are pursuing but I wouldn’t sketch you there is no right for the taking markets out there right now.
We are certainly hoping they are changing [indiscernible].
Okay all right thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of David West from Davenport and Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Firstly you will follow-up as we are talking about FirstComp a little earlier.
Could you talk a little bit – I know state by state this can vary but in general you gave some great color about other pricing trends but what about pricing trends in general and the workers comp area.
We are not seeing a lot of movement there right now David.
We expect all of the market at some point but we are no seeing a lot of movement.
What FirstComp has done is as I said earlier they are trying to move to state for the opportunity to get more favorable rates in their mind.
It’s the right thing to do moving out of California reducing some of that exposure is the right thing to do.
So I think that keep in mind they write very small workers compensation policies and I think as the market does move in their direction we could see a significant improvement there.
They are kind of [indiscernible] where there is opportunities for them to write the kind of policies that they write on the small businesses and startups at a price that – where the rates and their pair are [indiscernible].
Very good and then kind of switching over to the THOMCO deal.
You mentioned about $160 million related premium.
In excess of that yeah.
In excess.
What did Markel formally account for that prior that position? We didn’t close the deal until January.
No no we didn’t write any of that business through the acquisition.
Oh! No we didn’t write any of the business through acquisition.
They were all with [indiscernible] competitors.
And then Tom a quick question for you.
There was some modest contemporary impairment charges in the quarter.
What caused you that choice? It’s in the main form of accounting I reference you to [indiscernible] letter to be executed.
[Indiscernible] there is the rule.
The stuff that I am worried about economical.
Very good.
The European that’s what you mentioned in the press release that really have nothing to do with it? That had nothing to do with it.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Shields from iron metric capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and thank you for taking my call.
I have two quick questions.
Number one what percent of the book  are you receiving price better than trend and for this piece of the portfolio what is the persistent fee say versus the average of the portfolio of the total.
Wow price better than trend well I would say in general you should probably think in terms of trend that's three to five and I would say in very very cheap places right now are we getting price increases better than trends.
But for the first time in a long time we’re probably getting prices a lot of – well a lot in some places that at least equal trend.
I think we’re shooting for 3 to 5 in some places and if they stick we can find some more in it.
So pretty difficult question but I would say the industry in general hasn’t been getting anything close to trend in the several years it seems like in the transition that might talked about we’re starting to see some price increases this might be around trend and hopeful about the in this call with you next quarter maybe we can talked about some prices it maybe are exceed in turn end.
I think that’s the probable the best I can do one answer on that.
Okay.
And for the second question can that last cost trend range of 3 to 5 can you maybe flush it out for your major sort of lines of business like Fire [indiscernible] worker’s comp marine and other… That’s really hard.
But I would say in general just in very very general we would tend to think of your liability lines at the higher end of that and particularly your professional liability lines and then your property and other things are probably at the lower end of that but that’s a very general statement.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Bobman from Capital Returns please state with your question.
Somebody made the comment earlier on the call that basically FirstComp was I guess expected it to be – much of that was refereeing to sort of the transition pace or profitability?  I was wondering… That is so far as top line.
As far as top line.
Okay.
So it’s not indicative of – I think there was an earn out on the acquisition whether that earn out sort of on track to be earned or not any comment on that? Yeah the earn out was really on the opening balance sheet and at this point we’re – it’s nothing at this point it’s what the calculation would show.
But this is worker’s comp business it takes a while to develop so that could change.
But the earn out was really about the snapshot balance sheet the day we bought it.
Oh okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg [indiscernible].
Please state with your question.
Yeah good morning guys.
Just a couple I don’t want to kind of ask all about FirstComp on the call but couple of quick ones regarding – I mean what states that you guys never sign away from California.
I know you had talked about some better premium growth there and some [indiscernible] any credit would be helpful.
We went into Louisiana I am trying to remember what the market was.
Alaska I think Louisiana and Alaska.
Things like there might have been one more.
Also I mean what the team has been doing is you know where they see better profitable states they have been pushing harder in those states and trying to grow the business there.
They have been raising prices obviously as a lot of people have in California particularly in the areas where we are not seeing good performance.
So to some extend we are shrinking California or what you are writing in California is a rate you have or a rate you won’t be happy with.
And then in other states where we are happy with the pricing environment we are trying to grow in those states.
It’s really a portfolio balancing exercise if those guys are working through and I think they are doing a good job.
Understood.
I just want to make sure it wasn’t some of the more problematic states that other people had talked about like in Illinois or potentially in New York.
I would assume you guys would be talking about more profitable just wanted to double check.
Yeah.
We have a lot of confidence in there in FirstComp’s management making those decisions.
They really have a very strong culture of metrics and understanding of their business.
We have a lot of confidence that they – the move they make will be in the right state [indiscernible].
And then I guess a quick one on the reserves for the first time.
I don’t know if I did the math right.
But I think for the year I mean there is a little bit of adverse development from that business and I know you guys have a different reserving philosophy and just curious I mean is that in any particular accident year or is it I mean sort of across the board to just get it up to your reserve classes.
Yeah I won't delve into the detail but I want to add a sense of historical perspective to this.
If we had to do the first [indiscernible] we would all do it enthusiastically in a New York minute and the point I want to make is that if you look at any deal we are ever going to work out we will always have the practice and it’s more likely to be redundant and efficient in our reserve and that always have a time lag associated with it where the reserve philosophy are harmonized across the various Markel units.
2011 we know right now that those reserving philosophies and levels are being harmonized but we can see and feel and taste and touch the business sense of writing the intelligence pursuing that business that to have a great deal of confidence in it and in the course of time this deal like all the other deals will work out well for our shareholders.
I appreciate that and I know your history as far as reserving is concerned.
But I guess $6 million doesn’t seem like a lot to me and if you are moving around reserves maybe in the older action years from more recent ones I mean call like that would be certainly be useful from our end.
The other question I just wanted to ask quickly about is catastrophe exposures.
I know you guys have said you had taken a step back in kind of looking at what you thought about casualties.
But do you have any specific metrics that you look at.
I know you have mentioned getting price increases you certainly would be more willing to may be deploy some capital for cap exposure but just trying to get a sense of you know where you would think about that business going forward.
Well yeah we obviously like all the people probably would ride this we have a lot of metrics we looked at and without getting into too much detail we clearly look at our 1 and 250 return period numbers.
We use bootstrap methods and just add up a TIV we’ve gotten gates around the cost for wind we look at those across the zones into California and make sure we are comfortable we are not overloaded in particular across the zones.
So we have a lot of metrics we look at.
But the big thing we are doing right now is just continuing to focus on that and make sure we feel like we are making the appropriate moves and we are looking to increase pricing because we believe this business needs more price given the sort of events we saw in 2011.
I think we’ve made a lot of changes since 2005 in Katrina and we believe we’ve improved the methodology and approach significantly but it’s always evolving and we are always going to keep looking at it and trying to continue to improve because when you write catastrophe business you never want to get too comfortable.
So we are always going to be looking and trying to get that.
Great.
I appreciate the color and thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of J.
Cohen from BofA/Merril Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah thanks.
Just one quick numbers question.
Do you happen to have the statutory surplus as of yearend? No we don’t have that yet Jeff.
It could be a couple of more weeks on that.
Okay.
I guess more philosophical or theoretical question.
The makeup of your earnings between accident year and prior year developments clearly much different than other company it’s far different.
I mean essentially you are not making money on an accident year basis if we exclude the favorable development.
I think even if I had a bad catastrophe you wouldn’t be.
And clearly there has been a history of conservative reserving at the company but are you set up where you would expect at least to make money on an accident year basis.
In other words are you – it feels as though you have been way overly conservative or maybe the world just has to catch up to you.
What do you think is closest to the truth? Well I would say you know I don’t know that you can get the numbers out of our annual report.
I think you can.
I would say that what you just described had been consistent for Markel.
Throughout time we are very conservative on the current accident year and then over time we develop we allow that to come down.
And that’s just the way we’ve always done it.
I think I mentioned earlier there is no question that 2011 accident year is thinner than 2010 wasn’t thinner than 2009 was.
We still did everything we could to price it to an underwriting process but it’s not going to be what 2010 was and it’s not going to be what earlier years were.
It sounds like 2012 is going to be even worse because you are still not – your price increases aren’t yet keeping up with claims inflation.
Ongoing pressure there ex-catastrophes.
Right I guess the thing I would say there is you estimate trends just like you estimate a lot of other things.
The things that I think has probably surprised a lot of people in the last few years.
This trend has been somewhat benign but trend – you name it.
A trend on our development factors we are going to be conservative on a whole of it and you know watch it our hope and expectation would be that it comes down over time.
The one thing I would add Jeff in terms of philosophy obviously the accounting was one issue which you rightly raised but the thing is this that if you get the cash on day one and those dollars regardless of whether we recognize the income from this year or subsequent years this dollar if you flow into the investment portfolio and start creating returns for the shareholders.
Absolutely and I guess one last point/question on this.
I’ve heard other companies tell me that they try to get their accident year numbers as close to accurate as possible because that gives them some insight into pricing it’s therefore way off either way it will give us misinformation on how we should be pricing the business.
It doesn’t seem to be impacting yield.
I mean your pricing – from what I hear in the markets pretty consistent and you are not way too high or low.
Is that due to an inaccurate statement that an accident year number has a lot of information content relative to how you price the business going forward? I mean there are certainly links.
I think part of why it works for us is we have done it a long time and we have done it consistently this way.
We talk a lot about margin of safety and we talk about the fact that there is a margin of safety in our loss reserving.
That we may take a slightly different view as we sit down to really come up with a pricing methodology like you say.
There might be slightly conservatives than our reserving [indiscernible] then they would be in our pricing pick and we spend a lot of time talking about those two numbers to make sure they are not disconnecting but so – they could be different but we don’t want them to adjust to that.
That’s a helpful answer.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our last question comes from the line of Ron Bobman from Capital Returns.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
Thanks for the opportunistically to follow-up.
Two questions.
I think Greenberg [ph] on the eighth hole yesterday I think twice he made comment about the E&amp;S casualty market.
I think you used the word an area of stress or severe stress.
I was wondering if you would describe either pocket cells or large portions of E&amp;S casualty market experience stress that was the first time I heard of it.
I also noted I think – I haven’t heard any of the Markel on the call today am I right is this the new procedure for the calls? Thanks.
We didn’t hear the [indiscernible] I really don’t have to address that and this is in the line up here for a year now year and a half.
So we are here and the Markel I can assure you are listening as well and will coach us as soon as we walk out of the room.
Okay but how would you describe E&amp;S casualty as a stress segment? The only comment that I would make is that we are not seeing significant price increases in the E&amp;S casualty market at this time.
Okay thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over Tom Gayner for closing comments.
Thank you very much.
We are very glad you were with us and we look forward to catching up with you soon.
Take care.
This concludes the teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Markel Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gayner you may begin.
Thank you so much.
Good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation 2012 first quarter conference call.
We are glad that you are joining us and we look forward to your thoughtful questions about our business.
As is our custom our Chief Financial Officer Anne Waleski will layout the numbers from the first quarter followed by my Co-President Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt would comment about our international and domestic insurance operations.
I will then discuss our investment and Markel ventures operations a bit and then we will open the floor for questions.
Before getting started the rule says we need to repeat the Safe Harbor statement.
So here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statements in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section under non-GAAP reconciliation or in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I plan to follow the same format as in prior quarters.
I will start by discussing our underwriting operations followed by a brief discussion of our investment results and bring the two together with a discussion of our total results.
I am pleased to say that for 2012 we are off to a good solid start.
Total operating revenues grew 18% to $733 million in 2012 up from $622 million in 2011.
The increase is due to a 15% increase in revenues from our insurance operations and a 43% increase in revenues from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results first quarter 2012 gross written premiums were just under $650 million which is an increase of 10% compared to 2011.
The increase in 2012 was due to higher gross premium volumes in each of our three operating segments.
Net written premiums were approximately $580 million up 12% to the prior year.
Retentions were up slightly in 2012 at 90% compared to 88% in 2011.
Earned premiums increased 14%.
This increase was driven by a 23% increase in earned premium from the London Insurance Market segment.
First quarter 2011 net written and net earned premiums for the segment were reduced by approximately $9 million of reinsurance cost associated with losses incurred during the first quarter a year ago.
Our combined ratio was 100% for 2012 compared to 112% in 2011.
The combined ratio for 2012 includes $20 million or 4 points of expense related to our prospective adoption of the new GAAP accounting standards.
The 2011 combined ratio included 15 points of underwriting losses related to the three catastrophe events which occurred last year in Australia New Zealand and Japan.
Excluding the impact of the prospective adoption of the new GAAP accounting standards in the first quarter of 2012 and the effect of the catastrophes in the first quarter of 2011 our combined ratio improved by 1 point.
This improvement was due to a lower expense ratio and a lower current accident year loss ratio partially offset by less favorable development of prior year's loss reserve.
The improvement in the expense ratio is primarily due to an increase in earned premium.
The improvement in the current accident year loss ratio was due to lower attritional current year losses in the Excess and Surplus line segment and to lower attritional and large energy losses in the London Insurance Market.
Favorable redundancies on prior year's loss reserves decreased to $64 million or 12 points of favorable development compared to $75 million or 16 points of favorable development in 2011.
The decrease is primarily due to less favorable development of prior year's losses in the Excess and Surplus line segment.
In the first quarter of 2011 we resulted significant portion of our outstanding liabilities associated with an Errors &amp; Omissions program from mortgage servicing companies and as a result reduced loss reserves by $16 million.
Next I will discuss the results of our non-insurance operations which we call Markel Ventures.
In 2012 revenues from our non-insurance operations were $97 million compared to $68 million in 2011.
Net income to shareholders from our non-insurance operations was $200 000 in 2012 compared to $2.4 million in 2011.
Revenues from our non-insurance operations increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to our acquisitions of Baking Technology Systems Incorporated and WI Holdings Incorporated in late 2011.
The decrease in net income to shareholders from our non-insurance operations is a result of decreased shipments for the quarter in our manufacturing operations where we expect to see improvements as the year progresses.
Turning now to our investment results.
Investment income was up 14% in 2012 to just under $80 million.
Net investment income included a favorable change in the fair value of our credit default swap of $11 million.
During the first quarter of 2012 financial markets improved and credit spreads narrowed which favorably impacted the CDS.
Net realized investment gains were $12 million compared to $11 million in 2011.
There were no other-than-temporary impairments in either period.
Unrealized gains increased $214 million before taxes in 2012 driven by increases in equity securities.
Tom will go into further details on investments in his comments.
Looking at our total results for 2012 the effective tax rate was 23% in 2012 compared to an effective tax rate of 14% in 2011.
The increase is primarily due to anticipating a smaller tax benefit related to tax exempt investment income as a result of projecting higher pre-tax income for 2012 than in 2011.
We reported net income to shareholders of $57 million compared to $8 million in 2011.
Book value per share increased 6% to $373 per share on March 31st 2012 up from $352 per share at year-end.
Finally I will make a few comments on cash flow and the balance sheet.
Net cash used by operating activities was approximately $64 million for the three months ended March 31st 2012 compared to net cash used by operating activities of approximately $9 million for the same period of 2011.
The increase in net cash used by operating activities was due to increased claim settlement activity primarily in the London Insurance Market Segment.
Historically first quarter is our lowest cash generating quarter as we pay employee benefits agent incentives pension contributions and other items of that sort in the first quarter.
We really expect cash from operations to improve in the second quarter.
Investments in cash held as a holding company were approximately $1 billion at March 31st as compared to a little less than $1.2 billion at the end of the year 2011.
The decrease is due in part to the purchase of THOMCO in January 2012.
Mike will discuss that acquisition further in his comments.
And at this point I will turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Anne good morning.
First quarter results for North American operation showed increases in gross written premiums for both the Wholesale E&amp;S and Specialty divisions.
The wholesale gross written premiums increased 11% over the same period in 2011 and the specialty division gross written premiums increased 10% over the same period last year.
Market conditions remained transitional with moderate increases in many lines.
Rates for wind exposed property accounting more significantly than other lines and yet some lines such as medical malpractice and specified medical remained very competitive.
We see other insurance companies announcing rate increases.
It is worth noting in our opinion that in our experience some insurance companies were announcing rate increase on renewal business are continuing to price new business very aggressively.
At Markel we maintained the consistency of our underwriting discipline on both renewals and new business; we are seeking right on both.
With regards to the wholesale division during the quarter the division conducted agency counsel meetings for both our binding and brokerage businesses.
At these meetings we always try to create an atmosphere that is conducive to candidate feedback and I am not suggesting that any of our agents on these cannibals were shy they are not.
The feedback that we received was generally positive and supportive of the one Markel mile.
Criticism was limited and mostly centered on response times and John Latham President of our Wholesale Division and his team have initiated several projects to address the concerns raised and have already reported back to counsel members on their efforts.
Marketing activities in the Wholesale division were aggressive during the quarter with over 388 agency visits made by our regional personnel.
We continue to believe that we were appropriately staffed in the divisions at all of our regions to serve our agents and brokers.
In the Specialty division the increase in net gross written premiums was driven by growth in premiums at Markel American our personalized division Markel FirstComp the agriculture division and our carrier alliance business.
Offsetting some of the growth were declines in our accident health and program units.
The A&amp;H premium fell due to our exits in several programs due to lack of profitability and Markel programs also terminated several programs for the same reason.
The significant highlight during the quarter was the closing of the THOMCO acquisition in early January.
Greg Thompson and his team were a terrific addition to the Markel family.
Britt Glisson our Chief Administrative Officer Robin Russo our Executive Underwriter for Specialty and Tom Smith Head of Sales and Marketing corporately are working closely with Greg and his team on the transition of THOMCO's business.
The moving of this business to Markel Paper was light in the quarter but will be accelerated during the remainder of the year with a full impact of the acquisition being felt in 2013.
Also during the quarter we announced several key executive promotions.
John Tyson who joined the company in 1989 was promoted to lead Markel Specialty Commercial.
Mark Nicholas who also has been with the company over 20 years was promoted to oversee not only our A&amp;H business but our carrier alliance business and Personal Lines Division.
Audrey Hanken was promoted the President of Markel America.
Audrey joined Markel America over 17 years ago and has played a key role in building our Personal Lines business.
She previously served as Head of Underwriting and Product Development.
Mary Pat Joyce was promoted to President of Prairie State our carrier alliance business and she joined Markel in 1999 and most recently Head of Operations with Prairie State.
Matt Parker was promoted to President of Markel FirstComp.
Matt has been with FirstComp for over five years and most recently was Chief Operating Officer.
All of these individuals had significant experience in their respective areas and in cases of John Mark Audrey and Mary Pat significant tenure with Markel.
Hopefully these promotions are evidence to you of Markel's ability to fill key positions from within which is one of the defining strengths of our company.
With regards to our product line leadership group during the fourth quarter Markel of 2011 Markel great philosophy to 2012 was announced to communicate to all of our underwriters.
During the first quarter of 2012 all divisions Markel International Wholesale and Specialty showed positive rate increases.
Given the results we saw in the quarter we were optimistic that we can meet our rate increased targets in 2012.
The pipeline leadership also initiated several processed improvement in standardization projects to streamline our closed bond and issuance capabilities.
We efficiently launched Markel website to all North American Associates on March 30th establishing a protocol and standardization for underwriting guidelines across all product lines.
We also established protocols for internal communication between regions in the PLL Group.
All of this is being done to improve our speed and clarity when communicating quotes and other information to our agents and brokers.
Other highlights include the addition of a contracted pollution liability policy to our binding origin and developing a ISO claims made platform in addition to our proprietary form to meet the needs of our customers.
While still spotty we are pleased to see continued improvement in the rate environment and growth in the number of product lines.
However be assured we will not lose our focus on our sales and marketing efforts.
Being in front of our agents and brokers and including our processes and speed of delivery we remain at the forefront of what we do everyday.
I'll now turn to call over to Richie Whitt.
Richie? Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
What a difference a year makes?  Pleased to report our solid start to 2012 at Markel International.
Our combined ratio was 97% in the first quarter of '12 and mentioned the perspective adoption of the new GAAP accounting standards.
The adoption of this standard added 3 points to Internationals first quarter combined ratio.
You will obviously recall that we got off to a difficult start in first quarter of 2011 reporting a combined ratio of 152% with significant statutory losses from several events around the globe including the Australian floods and New Zealand earthquakes and the Japanese earthquakes and tsunami.
As compared to the start of 2011 the first quarter of 2012 is relatively quiet and I can tell you in the insurance business quiet is a good thing.
In the first quarter of '12 International gross written premiums were up 9% to $278 million.
We continue to experience growth in our marine and energy division most notably in our energy book.
We are also seeing solid growth in our catastrophe exposed property writings.
Premium growth in both of these areas were aided by rising prices.
We are seeing single digit price increases on marine energy and liability business and increases between 10% and 20% on average for catastrophe exposed property business.
Unfortunately the pricing environment in other areas of our book remains competitive.
While prices no longer appear to be falling competition remains strong for professional liability equine trade credit and in our various retail markets around the world.
As Mike mentioned there is always some differential between new business pricing and renewal business pricing.
But there has been a bigger and bigger disconnect recently as what Mike said people seem to be getting tougher on renewal but are being pretty aggressive on new business.
Our international leadership team led by William Stovin in Germany Brazil focused on growing in the areas where appropriate prices are achievable and we are working to maintain our discipline in the areas that still remain competitive.
So much to the U.S.
the pricing environment appears to be improving but it's far from hard market at this point.
We also to continue to focus on profitably growing our retail branch offices around the world our latest offices in Rotterdam and Munich are settling in and are off to good start.
Our retail management team is also working to develop standardized processors and procedures to use across our retail branches in order to more efficiently write these small but profitable policy.
In summary we are happy to be off to a good start in 2012 and we will stay patient as this market continues to involve.
Now I turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Richie.
As you have heard so far there is lot of positive momentum around Markel these days and I'm glad to tell you that's true for our investments and Markel Ventures operations as well.
On the investment front we earned a total return of 4% for the first quarter with fixed income earning 1.3% and equities earning 11.5%.
As has been the case for more quarters than I can believe now interest rates started the period low and then went lower.
As such we earned a total return of more than what we should expect from the underlying coupon return over to cost.
We continue to believe that interest rates are unnaturally low and given that belief we continue to choose to protect the balance sheet by maintaining our bond portfolio at a lower duration than what we would naturally like.
In effect we are incurring an opportunity cost to do so.
This is consistent with our focus on the balance sheet at Markel.
There will come a time when this decision should add meaningful value to our shareholders.
We will be the first to point that out to you when it does.
On the equity side we earned a total return of 11.5% for the quarter and we continue to steadily and methodically increase our equity investment commitment.
It now stands at 59% of shareholders equity up from 54% at year-end 2011.
We have additional capacity to increase our equity holdings and we continue to do so as we have for the last few years.
We believe that our portfolio of global dominant profitable companies represent the best big opportunity to earn good long-term rates of return and as such we continue to steadily and methodically add them to the equity investment portfolio.
On the Markel Ventures front during the first quarter revenues were just shy of $100 million and are included in the other revenues line of our income statement.
EBITDA totaled $9.4 million.
As always a reconciliation of EBITDA to GAAP net income is available on the website.
Frankly the first quarter EBITDA levels were below our budgeted expectation.
This was due to a combination of normal seasonality our lumpy businesses not getting as many lumps of business as the top indicates and the exempting of the meaningful growth opportunities at certain of the Ventures company.
We remain optimistic about meeting our annual goal since the seasonality will improve as the year goes on and we have good order books and backlog in some of the lumpy businesses.
Also the growth initiatives and the associated expenses will continue but they should begin to bring appropriate revenues and profits with the passing of time.
Additionally just after the quarter ended we added Havco to the Markel Ventures family.
Havco is the leading manufacturer of wood floorings for the trailers tractor trailer and has a multi decade history of leading market share and profitability.
Havco is led by Bruce Bader and a well established management team that will be staying and leading Havco into the future.
We are proud of the ongoing continuity of management at all of the Markel Ventures companies and are glad to welcome Bruce and his team to the family.
I am confident it will earn fine rates of return on our capital.
In order to give you some frame of reference about the magnitude of the growing Markel Ventures operations I will tell you at this point the annualized revenue run rate of Markel Ventures should approach $500 million and we continue to expect double-digit EBITDA margins from the collection of these businesses.
Please remember that the Safe Harbor statement that I started out with I hope that information is somewhat helpful as you consider the size and scale of this growing component of value creation for Markel shareholders.
To summarize we are optimistic about what is going on at Markel these days.
As Mike and Richie reported we are seeing better insurance markets and we are continuing to refine and improve on every aspect of our operation.
We are off to a great start on the investment side and we look forward to reporting this full year of operations from the Markel Ventures group of companies.
We appreciate the long-term nature of our shareholders to our interest in earning a successful long-term business and we now look forward to your possible questions.
With that I will open the floor for Q&amp;A  The expense ratio in the specialty admitted was up a bit year-over-year.
Is that higher level is going to be sustained going forward?  There were three things that were unusual in the quarter.
The DAC expense which Anne talked about we have some severance in the quarter and we have the write down of some systems in the quarter.
So the DAC could be sustained perhaps but the others not? That's correct.
Of the increase how much was the DAC?  I'm sorry if I missed out.
For specialty admitted hand on one sec I'll check for pair of unusuals.
You can that the DAC fees will be larger in the first and second quarter than it will be in the later half of the year.
So it's about four points specialty admitted in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then the London the current year losses were quite low lowest we've seen in some time.
I know that’s a volatile business but any reason to assume that will change?  The current accident year should be -- keep it at plus 67%? Well there's a couple of things going on there.
We've over the last few years added some businesses that have fairly low loss ratios but maybe slightly higher expense ratios in the 2s and I'm thinking about our Elliott Special Risks and the trade credit businesses.
They have low loss ratios but higher than typical expense ratios.
So there is a bit of a mix thing going on there.
Also it was a very quiet quarter in terms of catastrophes so that also is impacting.
So I think that it was a good quarter in terms of the current accident year.
I don’t know that we could expect that every quarter going forward during this year.
And then just any thoughts on pace of favorable development going forward?  It's down a little bit year-over-year but still at a very healthy level.
What can you say about that? I think we expect it to continue to be healthy.
So I'm not expecting any big differences in the future quarters.
But the only thing I'd add to that Mark is the market has been softening for the last six years now.
So while we always attempt to establish a fair bit of consistent margin anxiety with the market margin shrinking I think its likely unless the market starts to tick up which we think it started to those things will keep continue to drift down.
Little bit yeah.
Okay thank you.
Hi thanks its Alison Jacobowitz actually.
Just a follow up to the last question in part.
I don’t know is it possible at this point for you to give maybe more a little bit more specifics on the DAC accounting change and how it’s going to come through rest of the year.
I think you said something in the queue about $43 million over nine months we got $20 million in the first quarter.
Is it that $23 million we should look forward for the next couple of quarters and how should we look at that? And then also I don’t think I heard it if you could talk about the favorable change in the swap this quarter that added the $11 million to investment income.
I’m sorry I don’t have the quarterly history but just I’m sure this lumpy but how you might be thinking about that if there is anything you put around that? Okay and relative to the DAC question its about 4 points in the first quarter I mean that swag would be you could take 3 points in the second quarter then 2 points and 1 point and it may move around a little bit but that would be a reasonable swag.
Relative to the credit default swap it has new grand and paramount quarter-to-quarter some the markets just move in enough of the right direction this quarter that we ended up with a pretty positive outcome.
Nothing really add to that but the history is that every quarter there is movement it would net to zero over time.
I was wondering if you could touch a little more on the comments you made about new business being a lot more competitive I’m assuming that’s been a change over the last couple of quarters now.
Just curious if you could touch on what areas that you’re seeing that increased new business competition is it by class or is it small versus medium or what was that? Scott its Mike.
I don't know that we're seeing an increase over the last couple of quarters.
What my point is what we are seeing and is that our underwriting discipline is consistent on business as it is on renewable and what we are seeing if we read the press releases we are seeing comments by competitors saying that they are raising rates and we see and we hear from our agents and its fully at across the board large small whatever but particularly on the business that we are in which is medium size to small risk.
We hear from our agents that some of the carriers that have been very aggressive in the past and during the soft market at raising rates substantially on renewals and yet we see them in the marketplace where we compete with them been very competitive on new business and not following the same philosophy.
So it’s not I don’t see the aggressiveness on new business has not increased in the quarter.
It has been aggressive.
Okay.
I got it.
I’m just pointing out the difference between our underwriting philosophy and maybe some others.
Okay that's clear and then just wondering if you could touch on whether you are seeing any big changes on policy terms and conditions over the past few months as the market improved a little bit any movement there? There is nothing real significant.
Okay.
The other thing I had was just a couple of numbers questions where there any catastrophe losses in the quarter? They were nothing of any materiality.
So a couple of the tornados have been classed as catastrophes but nothing material in the numbers.
Okay and just one another thing the Markel ventures you talked about some of the seasonality of the business so now based on the collection of business you have now is key want to going to be the seasonally weakest or softest quarter and it improves in the second and third quarter.
How should we think about the seasonality of the business top and bottom line? Our strength about Q1 is indeed the lowest quarter we have seen in the bill through the year.
I think the question for Mike.
I think you noticed $14.5 million first comp related loss was there any adverse reserve development? No I don’t think so.
I think mostly it came out of just where we are preparing in the loss ratio.
The reserves are held in there pretty good.
Okay.
So this is just booking in the past market levels.
I think the other thing you got to think about Meyer is last year as we are bringing that business on California with relatively small portion of it now that we are keeping a 100% of the business.
California is kind of fully loaded in there and our California loss ratio just because what the California market have been the last few years with carrying higher loss ratio is there but we have been raising prices when we have been working really hard on California.
So we are optimistic of come down in the future but California will carry at pretty high loss ratio.
Okay that’s helpful.
Tom I’m not sure you had read this question but whether it’s the best of rule or something similar to that.
Are you worried about in general equities or equity prices getting a hit if the associated taxation realized gains or dividend changes over the next year?  Not really.
I mean the number of factors the number of variables that go into what the given price of any given equity is going to sell for in a given day is about a million.
So while those might be bad factors I don’t think they are the exclusive drivers on why things sell for what they did.
So we tend to be bottom up people rather than top down people.
If we worry about the Buffet rule the change of tax it goes on and European politics etc etc I think you're drilling a hole and never do anything.
And I don’t think that would be the productive way to proceed.
Okay and one more question if I can.
I think we started with a discussion on agency feedback on One Markel's positives and negative.
Was growth in the quarter impacted were they on the negative side at all because --  I would say it was impacted on the positive side.
Really the feedback on the One Markel results.
And we're seeing almost all of our large wholesale producers folks grow with us.
They are a couple that haven’t won because they lost a lot of business themselves but we got I might not have worded as well as I could have just trying to be candid.
Really the only negative response was just trying to help us continue to speed up our response to them in terms of quote bind issue.
But the response on the One Markel and the availability of all Markel products to these agents and brokers has been terrific.
I have a few questions.
One thank you for the disclosure on the accounting change.
That’s appreciated.
In specialty I was under the impression that last year you had put some reserves up at FirstComp or bring it up to Markel standards for about $30 million last year and of course its in this quarter this year.
So its my impression that last year wrong or is there something else going on there in terms of bringing it up to Markel standards in addition to what Ritchie said about California?  Two things there John.
When we purchased FirstComp we put some reserves up to get to the historical reserves where we thought they needed to be and in line with our more likely than not redundant and margin for safety philosophy.
In all their lines of business at Markel as we go forward we build in a margin of safety on the loss reserves on the loss ratio because things happen.
So that is part of their more likely redundant than deficient philosophy to have that margin of safety as we move forward.
So there's two pieces there.
What we needed to do when we bought but on an ongoing basis we will continue to put a margin of safety on FirstComp just like we do at all our businesses.
That could potentially decrease the amount of the margin could decrease as we become more comfortable with that business but its no different than what we do everywhere else I guess I'm saying.
Okay.
And is there anything else in this segment I mean if you yet back the 14 they wrote at an underwriting loss.
Are there other lines of business or any other trends that are significant there?  No nothing really.
We feel good about it.
We're getting price wherever we can.
And with regard to FirstComp I mean they are focused on improving pricing they're focused on the risk selection they're focused on their agency client management and they're also focused as Ritchie mentioned on their geographical mix.
They went in two new states Louisiana and Alaska last year and then we saw some nice growth there.
So no I don’t think so.
Okay.
And then THOMCO is in that segment.
I thought I heard that’s going to impact next year?  Now very little of the THOMCO business transitioned in the first quarter.
We will be transitioning those programs that are moving to Markel paper during the course of the year.
Some of bigger programs are later in the year.
Their largest program I think we start transitioning in September.
So we won't feel the full impact.
I think what we've said in previous disclosures was that we expect about $60 million direct to hit in 2012 with the full impact of the acquisition hitting in 2013.
Okay.
So that’s like an MGA situation rolling under your paper? Right exactly.
Okay.
And then for Tom Gayner for Ventures I believe Havco was in the second quarter is that right? That’s correct.
That didn’t close until April.
Okay.
Did you close anything in the first quarter? No.
Okay.
And so the acquisitions line in the cash flow statement is really for THOMCO? Right correct.
Not for Ventures? Correct.
All right.
Thanks.
Just a brief one.
When we look at the underwriting profit or the generating profit in the discontinued lines is that sort of sporadic or is there some sort of ongoing theme that you look for? That is going to be very sporadic.
Those lines are discontinued.
It is really legacy reserves that are not running off.
And I think the small positives you have seen sporadically over the last several quarters is really just the more likely redundant and deficient philosophy of Markel playing out as we are settling our those legacy reserves.
We are seeing bits and pieces of redundancy.
So I would not even attempt to project what that could look like going-forward.
Thank you very much.
We look forward to updating you next quarter.
See you soon.
Bye bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Tom Gayner President of Markel Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner.
You may begin.
Thank you Manny.
I appreciate it.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Markel Corporation’s second quarter conference call.
We’re pleased that you’re joining us as we all look forward to sharing the good news of our substantial year-to-date progress in 2012 and building the value of your company.
Over the past several years we’ve been telling you about the transformation underway at Markel.
We’ve told you about the growth of our insurance operations through entry into new geographical areas our new products and our acquisitions.
We’ve told you about our focus on improving the operating efficiencies in our business and how we’ve restructured the company to increase our revenues from existing customers.
We’ve also told you about our expanded investment activities through Markel Ventures which now owns controlling interests in about a dozen profitable manufacturing and service businesses.
We’ve told you about how Markel has more ways and more flexibility to create value for our shareholders than ever before and it is now delightful to begin to show you the fruits of these efforts rather than just telling you about them.
As is our custom our Chief Financial Officer Anne Waleski will lay out the overall numbers from the first half.
Then my Co-Presidents Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt will discuss our domestic and international insurance activity.
I will then cover our investment in Markel Ventures operations and then we will open the floor for your questions.
Before getting started with today’s lineup though the rules say we need to repeat the safe harbor statement so here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statements and our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the ‘Investor Information’ section under ‘Non-GAAP Reconciliation’ and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Before I get to a discussion of our financial results I will point out a couple of accounting items new to the quarter and the year.
First I’m sure you have all noticed some changes in our statements this quarter.
Redeemable non-controlling interest is a new line item on the balance sheet this quarter.
For all periods presented we have reclassified amounts previously included in the non-controlling interest balances for relevant Markel Ventures affiliates to this new line item.
This is required because some of the Markel Ventures’ minority shareholders have the option to sell their shares to us in the future generally at a fixed multiple of EBITDA.
In addition to the reclassification there is an adjustment recorded on these redeemable non-controlling interest balances.
As of the end of each reporting period the carrying value of the redeemable non-controlling interest is adjusted to the calculated redemption value if that price is higher than the current carrying value.
The purpose of the adjustment is to record the potential cash obligations we may have to the non-controlling interest shareholders.
This quarter redeemable non-controlling interest balances were marked up by $8.2 million.
The adjustment is recorded to retained earnings and reduces net income to shareholders when calculating earnings per share.
You can find the earnings per share calculation in Footnote 2 and additional information regarding our contingent obligations to the non-controlling shareholders in Footnote 8.
The second item I would like to point out was previously discussed in our first quarter conference call and filings but I’d like to remind everyone that we chose to prospectively adopt the new DAC accounting standards.
As of June 30th 2012 we have recognized approximately $35 million or 3 points of expenses related to the prospective adoption of the new standards.
Now that we have covered these new items I will review the 2012 financial results.
I will follow the same format in discussing results as in past quarters.
I will start by discussing our underwriting operations followed by a brief discussion of our investment results and bring the two together with a discussion of our total results.
Our total operating revenues grew 12% to $1.4 billion in 2012 from $1.3 billion in 2011.
The increase is due to a 10% increase in revenue from our insurance operations and a 30% increase in revenue from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results gross written premium for the six months of 2012 were just under $1.3 billion which is an increase of 9% compared to 2011.
The increase in 2012 was due to higher gross premium volume in each of our three operating segments.
Net written premiums were approximately $1.1 billion up 9% through the prior year.
Retentions were up slightly in 2012 at 89%.
Earned premiums increased 9%.
The increase in 2012 was due to higher earned premium volume in each of our three operating segments.
Increases in gross net and earned premiums have all benefited from our recent insurance acquisitions in the Specialty Admitted segment.
Our combined ratio was 93% for the first six months of 2012 compared to 107% in 2011.
As a reminder our 2011 combined ratio included $99 million or 10 points of underwriting losses related to the catastrophe events which occurred last year in the U.S.
Australia New Zealand and Japan.
Setting aside the impact of the prospective adoption of the new DAC accounting standard in 2012 and the effect of catastrophes in 2011 the improvement in our year-to-date combined ratio was due to a lower current accident year loss ratio and to more favorable development of prior year’s loss reserves within the London Insurance Market segment compared to the same period in 2011.
The improvement in the current accident year loss ratio was due to lower attritional current year losses in the Excess and Surplus Lines segment and the London Insurance Market segment.
Favorable redundancies on prior year’s loss reserves increased to $191 million or 18 points of favorable development compared to $151 million or 16 points of favorable development in 2011.
The increase was primarily due to more favorable development of prior year’s losses in the London Insurance Market segment.
Favorable development on prior year’s losses in 2012 was primarily on the 2008 and 2009 accident years and occurred in a variety of programs across our international division.
Now I’ll discuss the results of our non-insurance operations which we call Markel Ventures.
In 2012 year-to-date revenues from Markel Ventures were $191 million compared to $147 million in 2011.
Year-to-date net income to shareholders from our non-insurance operations Markel Ventures was $400 000 in 2012 compared to $4.7 million in 2011.
Revenues from Markel Ventures increased in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to our acquisitions of Baking Technology Systems Incorporated and WI Holdings Incorporated in late 2011 as well as Havco in 2012.
Next some information on our investment results; investment income was up 7% in 2012 to just under $144 million.
Net investment income for the six months of 2012 included a favorable change in the fair value of our credit default swap of $12 million which compares to $600 000 in 2011.
During the first quarter of 2012 financial markets improved and credit spreads narrowed which favorably impacted this credit default swap.
Net realized investment gains were $20 million compared to $13 million in 2011.
Net realized gains for the six months of 2012 included $1 million of write-downs for other than temporary declines in the estimated fair value of investments as compared to $5 million in 2011.
Unrealized gains increased $194 million before taxes in 2012 driven primarily by increases in equity securities.
Tom will go into further detail on investments in his comments.
Looking at our total results for 2012 the effective tax rate was 23% in 2012 compared to an effective tax rate of 14% in 2011.
The increase is primarily due to anticipating a smaller tax benefit related to tax-exempt investment income as a result of projecting higher pre-tax income for 2012 than in 2011.
We reported net income to shareholders of $147 million compared to $39 million in 2011.
Book value per share increased 8% to $380 per share at June 30 2012 (inaudible) at yearend.
I’ll now make a few comments on cash flow and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $105 million for the six months ended June 30th 2012.
That compares to approximately $100 million for the same period of 2011.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was due to higher cash flows from underwriting activities as a result of higher premium volumes in each of our three operating segments partially offset by increased claim settlement activity during the first quarter of 2012 primarily in the London Insurance Market segment.
Investments in cash at the holding company were approximately $900 million at June 30th as compared to a little less than $1.2 billion at the end of 2011.
The decrease in invested assets is primarily the result of acquisitions made during 2012.
On July 2nd 2012 the company issued $350 million of 10-year 4.9% unsecured notes for net proceeds of $347 million.
A portion of the proceeds was used to redeem the company’s 7.5% unsecured senior divestures due August 22nd 2046 at a redemption price of $150 million.
Remaining proceeds will be used to partially refund the repayment of the company’s 6.8% unsecured notes due February 15th 2013.
At this point I will turn it over to Mike to further discuss operations.
Mike Crowley: Thanks Anne.
Good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to report that the second quarter North American results were positive from a rate premiums and underwriting perspective.
When measured against the first quarter our North American underwriting segment achieved better rate results in the second quarter with rates increasing 4.5% on average versus 3.4% in the first quarter.
We believe that a better comparison of the progress made in our ability to increase rate is to look back at the same period in 2011.
Last year the majority of North American business segments had rate decreases and the total book generated a minimal increase through the first six months of 2011.
We are making progress.
With regards to premium growth the E&amp;S regions grew by 4.1% bringing growth year-to-date to 6.1%.
The total E&amp;S segment grew by 1.7% for the quarter and 6% year-to-date the difference being the growth numbers for the E&amp;S regions in the entire segment; the difference is the impact of exit lines of business that were booked in 2011 for the same period.
The Specialty Admitted segment grew 25.5% for the quarter is up 18.1% year-to-date over the same period in 2011.
This growth is fueled by the addition of $26 million of THOMCO premiums and growth in the Markel FirstComp business.
Our existing property and casualty businesses and our agribusiness also were up for the quarter and the year.
Markel American our personal lines division generated 5.9% growth for the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
The combined ratios for all North American segments improved for the quarter versus the same period in 2011.
The Specialty Admitted segment improved 5 points from 102 – to 102 from 107.
E&amp;S segment improved 5 points as well to 87 from 92 in 2011.
The THOMCO transition which we closed January 1 of this year continues – that transition continues in a very positive manner.
We still believe that we will book approximately $60 million on Markel paper in this fiscal year.
FirstComp is executing their plan for improved results through price increases geographic analysis and reallocating volume to favorable territories plus expense reduction efforts.
Cross-selling at FirstComp is showing improvement with 145 agents completing their Markel producer agreements bringing the total count of agents who have initiated this process to 602.
In June 89 Markel FirstComp agents requested a THOMCO producer agreement bringing that total to 325 so far this year.
In the E&amp;S segment binders increased at a higher rate than submissions reflecting some improvement in the market as well as some benefit for our efforts – from our efforts to cull non-performing agents and reduce the receipt of submissions that offer little opportunity to Markel.
We completed and released Phase 2 of our broker portal in the E&amp;S division which included the addition of more than 120 property and casualty class codes in the quick quote rate function for rating quoting and binding.
Across all E&amp;S regions we conducted a total of 489 agency visits hosted three producer events and held underwriting conferences in four regions.
In addition during the quarter we were pleased to announce several new promotions of significance.
Jeff Lamb who has been with Markel for 11 years serving most recently as Head of Underwriting in our MidSouth region was promoted to Executive Underwriter for the E&amp;S Division.
Evans Nash who has been with Markel for 17 years has assumed the role of Managing Director Wholesale Marketing.
Evans recently was in charge of our binding business.
He replaces Wendy Houser who is transferring back to our MidSouth region to fill the senior position left over by Jeff Lamb’s promotion.
I would like to point out that Wendy just did a terrific job in her role as Managing Director Wholesale Marketing and we expect the same results from Wendy in the MidSouth region.
Each of these individuals brings a wealth of knowledge and talent to their respective positions.
Our ability to promote from within is evidence of the depth of talent at Markel.
In summary we’re pleased with the performance in North America in the quarter but we will not lose sight of the fact that continuous improvement is both necessary and possible.
I would like to turn the call over to Richie Whitt.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everybody.
During the first six months of 2012 Markel International’s gross written premiums grew 7% to $514 million.
Significant areas of growth continue to be in the marine and energy and our catastrophe exposed property lines so tricky and open market property.
We continue to see price increases on catastrophe exposed property and marine and energy business; however as the years progress these price increases appear to be moderating to some extent.
Our overall average price increase on renewal business in the first six months of the year was approximately 5%.
Cat property increases have generally been between the 10% and 20% range and energy has seen low single-digit increases.
All the rest of our lines on the international side are relatively stable maybe a point or two up a point or two down but pretty stable I would say.
So despite solid price increases in several of the lines of business in the first half of the year there is still a pretty competitive market and there is still quite a bit of capacity out there.
International’s combined ratio for the first six months of 2012 was 86%.
That includes 3 points of expense related to the adoption of the new deferred acquisition cost accounting standard that Anne mentioned.
As opposed to the significant cat losses that we experienced in the first half of 2011 our first six months of 2012 results really include minimal catastrophe losses.
In addition Markel International’s 2012 combined ratio included $86 million of favorable development on prior-year reserves.
This included $18 million of takedown on 2001 and prior-year reserves.
We always strive to establish reserves that are more likely redundant than deficient at Markel.
However the releases we experienced in the first six months are more than we would normally expect and as Anne said are the result of favorable development across a number of product lines including that 2001 and prior reserve release that I mentioned.
I want to congratulate William Stovin and the international team on this really strong start to the year.
Our goal for the second half of the year is going to be to continue to build on this positive momentum continue to look for opportunities to profitably grow the international franchise.
Finally switching gears I’d also like to mention a significant accomplishment for our IT Finance Actuarial and Information System teams – Information Management team excuse me.
During the second quarter we went live with the first phase of a data warehouse which includes all of our Excess and Surplus Lines business.
We’re already seeing the benefit of being able to better analyze our Excess and Surplus Lines data.
We’ll be able to provide our underwriters and product line leaders with significantly better information about production profitable classes classes that need corrective action.
We believe that over time better access to this information is going to help us gain a competitive advantage.
With that I’d like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
As Anne mentioned earlier book value per share rose to a new record high at $380 as of June 30.
Our comprehensive income so far in 2012 of $279 million created an increase in book value per share of roughly $28 or 8% during the first six months of the year.
I’m happy with those results and I hope you are as well.
I am also especially pleased that those results occurred even though we were not hitting on all cylinders.
Specifically while we enjoyed excellent results from our insurance and equity investment operations as well as positive returns from our fixed income portfolio the results at Markel Ventures were below my expectations.
The fact that we can hit new records in book value and compound capital at the rates we did despite not hitting on all cylinders is very encouraging to me.
The reality is that it is highly unlikely that we will ever get on every single cylinder at once.
That said look at the returns we’ve earned given that fact.
I’m encouraged by what we’ve built and are continuing to build at Markel.
We’ve got more cylinders than we used to and more chances to keep the engine going forward.
We’ll let the politically minded of you debate whether we built that ourselves or not but the numbers seem to indicate that somehow or another Markel’s long legacy of creating enduring value continues.
As to some details during the first half the total return on the investment portfolio was 4.5%.
Equities enjoyed a return of 9.7% and fixed income produced a positive overall return of 2.9%.
Markel Ventures’ consolidated results however as I said were below my expectations for the first six months.
On revenues of approximately $190 million EBITDA totaled $9.4 million.
This compares to revenues of $146 million a year ago and EBITDA of $9.9 million.
As always a reconciliation of EBITDA to net income is available on the website.
In the equity portfolio our focus on high-quality securities paid off.
During the first six months we earned 9.7% compared to the S&amp;P 500 total return of 9.5%.
Over the last 15 years a longer and more meaningful timeframe we’ve outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 170 basis points per year.
We’ve also outperformed the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index by 220 basis points per year which demonstrates the value we add to our shareholders by investing in stocks.
Equities now represent roughly 60% of our total shareholders’ equity up from 55% at yearend.
We continue to steadily and regularly add to our equity investment portfolio and we expect to continue to do so.
Revenues are going up around here and we’ve got ideas for where to invest the money.
In our fixed income operations we earned a total return of 2.9%.
Interest rates moved lower yet again during the second quarter so we over-earned the coupon from our bond portfolio.
Yet again I continue to be amazed that this is happening and we remain ever more defensively positioned with that portfolio.
Duration for the overall bond portfolio is now at a record low for us of 3.
The perverse good news is that the opportunity cost of holding an ever-shorter duration bond portfolio is going down.
Given the low rate at the front and long end of the curve we couldn’t stretch for yield even if we’d like to.
There just isn’t any worthwhile yield out there to be had.
As such we have a portfolio where the differences between what one would call cash and equivalents and fixed income continue to diminish.
That means for all practical purposes we have a lot of cash and all the options that go with cash such as deploying it at higher rates of return as time goes by.
It also means we are protecting our balance sheet against the rise in interest rates even more than last quarter and last year and I believe that’s a good idea.
Finally let me address Markel Ventures.
As I mentioned earlier we breathe the same air as everybody else and the continued passage is of caution in the overall economy caused several sales large-ticket capital goods to be pushed out beyond original shipment schedules.
There is also some undeniable pressure on our order books and sales prices.
Additionally and positively we are undertaking meaningful expansions at several of our units which means that we are incurring upfront expenses to build for the future.
That said I’m optimistic about the second half of the year.
Our current shipments rates are encouraging.
Seasonality helps us in the second half and we should begin to see the beginning of the payoff in both sales and earnings from some of the major expansions underway at the Markel Ventures Company.
Additionally we acquired a controlling interest in Havco late during the second quarter.
Havco is the leading manufacturer of flooring for the trailers of the 18-wheelers you see out there on the highway.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we also acquired Tromp a Dutch baking equipment company which will join our AMF Bakery operations; and IDRECO a Dutch dredging manufacturer which joins our Ellicott Dredges operations.
These additions should begin to contribute to our second half results.
As we look out over the balance of 2012 and into 2013 I expect that the current run rate of revenues for the Markel Ventures companies should approximate $600 million and that they should produce double-digit EBITDA on those revenues.
I look forward to reporting those sorts of results to you.
Additionally let me take a few minutes to discuss our culture and history of being very conservative in our accounting judgments.
As you’ve heard us say we have a policy of our reserves being more likely to be redundant than deficient.
You can see the evidence that we mean what we say in our history of reserve redundancy.
During this quarter new items of non-controlling interests Anne referred to earlier in her comments is yet another example of what I would consider to be extremely conservative accounting and financial presentation and I’d like to explain it as I see it economically.
In many of the Markel Ventures acquisitions we buy less than 100% of the businesses on day one.
In each and every case agreements with specific valuation mechanisms have been put in place at which Markel will acquire additional ownership over time and move towards 100% ownership.
When we buy 100% of a business the price we pay logically goes directly on to our balance sheet and consolidates into Markel Corporation’s financial statements.
Under accounting rules which are confusing to me if we buy say 80% of the business that amount goes on the balance sheet as you would expect.
When we buy the remaining 20% that stub amount is expensed as a period expense through the income statement and doesn’t get placed on the balance sheet as an asset.
We’ve already done this once when we bought the additional 20% interest in AMF that increased our ownership to 100%.
That transaction took place in 2010.
With this non-controlling interest item we’re essentially putting up a provision against our comprehensive income and providing for our expectation of what we will pay over the next several years for the additional minority interest we expect to buy in several of the Markel Ventures entities.
I’m thankful for my accounting degree but I never expected to use it like this.
I don’t think the treatment follows economic logic but those are the accounting rules as they currently exist and we follow them conservatively.
For additional discussion of this topic I encourage you to read Page 15 of the 2011 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report where Mr.
Buffet writes about this exact issue in conjunction with the ongoing acquisition of additional percentage ownership of his Marmon subsidiary.
I apologize for spending this kind of time on these subjects as well as subjecting you to my philosophy about them and I appreciate our dedicated and hard-working accountants that spend a great deal of time and diligent effort to understand and comply with the increasing codification of accounting rules.
But I think it’s worth covering.
Unless we all understand and appreciate what goes into comprehensive income accounting treatment and total economic returns we won’t fully understand and be able to reasonably measure the economics occurring at Markel.
Over the years investors have accorded Markel a premium multiple compared to many of our peers.
I think this is the result of our history of producing excellent long-term returns as measured by the total comprehensive returns for the business as well as having confidence in the conservatism and the dependability of our accounting.
A premium multiple also comes in the belief and faith that we will continue to be able to allocate our capital well in the future and earn above-average returns from doing so as we have in the past.
What makes me so excited is that we have more prospects and opportunities to effectively allocate capital than ever before in our history.
We have the imagination the creativity and the discipline of execution to make our dreams real.
I like our hand.
We are now all delighted to discuss our comprehensive results that we are reporting today and we hope that you share our optimism about the future.
With that Manny if you’d be so kind as to open the line for your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Mark Hughes of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
In terms of pricing it sounds like things are getting better in North America.
In talking about the marine and energy and cat exposed properties though you did suggest that the pace of improvement has moderated recently let’s say.
What do you think about the broader P&amp;C environment in the U.S.? Is this moderating as well? Or are you continuing to see progress? Mark Richie.
How are you doing? Good.
The thing I think you’ve got to recognize is those lines of business in London they probably started strengthening before some of the other lines some of the U.S.
lines as an example.
So the price increases we’re getting in energy and the price increases we’re getting on the cat exposed stuff that’s on top of price increases we were getting last year.
So it doesn’t surprise me given that there is still a decent amount of capacity out there that we’re not going to continue to see increasing price increases unless we start to have events or something else happens capacity starts to leave.
So that doesn’t surprise me a lot.
I think what Mike would tell you and what Mike said about the second quarter is actually we saw some incremental improvement in the price increases in the U.S.
Yeah I agree.
And I think – I don’t want anybody to think that the world isn’t still competitive out there because it is.
But so far we’ve been working hard to get rate and we’ve been successful in doing it.
And I think you also have to keep in mind that the way we price our products we’re not – a lot of times we’re not the cheapest guy out there so we’re starting from a different position than maybe some of our competitors are that might be reporting larger rate increases.
But the market is fairly consistent.
There are still some lines like the medical malpractice that are very competitive.
But we have been making progress.
Got you.
The systems you talked about the – how broadly are those going to be implemented? Is that across most or all product lines and then how much more granular or timely is your information going to be? Well right now it’s across really the wholesale division and so it’s all the systems.
It aggregates all the information up there.
Over time we’d love to expand that to the Specialty areas as well.
London has their own systems in terms of looking at their information.
It’s a good bit more granular than what we’ve had in the past.
And we were having to do a lot of work to combine the information.
So we’re pretty excited about it.
We’re able to give our underwriters and product line guys a lot more to work with now to manage their portfolios.
So I think it’s a real step forward for us.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A couple of questions; on the E&amp;S business the premium growth slowed pretty considerably from the first quarter growth rate.
I’m wondering what’s behind that.
Well we did have an earlier close this year than we did last year.
That had a little bit of an impact on it.
I’m not going to quantify that because we’ll just have to deal with it next quarter if we did.
But I think the growth rate we’re comfortable with.
As I pointed out we’ve been working hard to reduce the number of – I wouldn’t use the word useless but the number of submissions that we get where in reality we have very little opportunity to write business.
And we’ve been more focused on spending our time on stuff that we really want to write and we’re starting to make some incremental progress there.
Other than that we feel very good about where we are in the E&amp;S segment.
We feel very good about our submission flow.
We feel very good about our buying rate and are very optimistic about the rest of the year.
It does jump around a bit quarter to quarter.
If I looked at the first half results is that a better indication? Probably.
Yeah.
Jay this is Ritchie.
We do have a – Mike just mentioned  we’re constantly adding products but at the same time we’re constantly looking at products that aren’t performing and we’ll discontinue those if they’re not performing.
We have a little bit of noise in the numbers around some of those exited lines and so there is a little bit of lumpiness between the first and the second quarter.
So I think looking at the growth rate over the first six months is probably a good way to look at it.
Yeah I agree.
Great.
And then the same question in London I’m not sure if currency played a role here but the growth rate had been double-digit and it slowed down to about 2% on a written basis.
We’ve got some seasonality obviously to the book in London.
A lot of places – where we’re getting a lot of the price increases as well as we were writing more premium is the cat exposed business and January 1 and April 1 are big dates for that but January 1 in particular.
So there is a little bit of seasonality there.
But again I’d probably look at the six months’ growth rate and that’s probably a pretty good proxy.
That’s helpful.
And then the last question the tax rate just given where you made your money and a lot of it came in the underwriting side obviously given that huge reserve release the tax rate to me seems a little low.
And I can talk offline about this but is there anything in the tax rate that distorted things at all this quarter? No nothing unusual and I’m happy to take it up with you offline.
But there’s nothing odd in it.
Okay.
Maybe we’ll follow up on that then.
Thank you.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
The next question is from David West of Davenport.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Dave.
Probably a question one for each of you; first Anne on the accounting side on the prospective adaptation of a new tax expense accounting.
I think earlier you estimated about a $43 million impact for the full year.
Is that still a good estimate? That’s correct.
Okay great.
So we’ll – and it’ll still be primarily third quarter – more third quarter than Q4? Right.
It’ll – it’s front-loaded.
In the first half of the year you’ll start to see the quarter number come down and the whole year should be about $43 million.
Great.
And then Tom when I look at the cost basis of the portfolio June 30th versus yearend it looks like fixed income basis is down short term down but equity up.
Is that more of a conscious acceleration of monies toward the equity portfolio? There is a mild acceleration but it’s – I think actually if you look at that pattern you’d find since the first quarter of 2009 we’ve steadily dollar cost averaged our way into bigger and bigger equity position and where you could really track that if you wanted to is to look at exactly that the cost basis.
And that’s a reasonable number to look at because our turnover compared to the high-frequency guys at night we’re the low-frequency guys at Markel.
Our turnover (inaudible) are very low.
So that would be a relatively accurate way of seeing the dollars we’re putting in the equity portfolio.
And it’s also just a reflection of the alternatives with the low interest rate environment as well? Yeah.
But I would say it is really more driven by the fact that we see equity opportunities.
We think that’s where we get the best long-term total return over time and we have the balance sheet and the business flow to do it.
Right.
And Mike turning to FirstComp the premiums written there have increased year over year.
The losses that have been recorded this year are also higher than last year.
Are those still running within your range of expectation? Yeah they are David.
And FirstComp as I said we’ve given FirstComp a plan and they are executing the plan right on target with our expectations.
As I mentioned in my comments they are getting rate increases.
They are focusing on a geographic analysis working on moving to areas where there’s more opportunity for better business and moving out of some areas where historically the performance has not been good.
Last year we added a couple of states.
We added Alaska.
We added Louisiana.
They are focused on their expense reductions so we’re very comfortable that they’re executing exactly like we want them to.
Are you continuing to move away from California? Well parts of California but there are parts of California that we’re comfortable with and they are restructuring their book in California.
All right very good.
And Richie on the international side you mentioned in the Q that 2008 2009 were the years for the favorable development.
You mentioned it extended across a lot of product lines but could you add a little bit more color to that? Were there any particular lines that made a meaningful contribution to that favorable development? Yeah David.
It really was across product lines there.
I know that it sounds like a copout but it really was.
I think part of the issue is we’ve been very concerned about how the market has been – was declining in those years so we were very cautious in how we established the reserves.
And we’ve had some pretty darn good developments the last few quarters.
So it really was pretty much across.
It was professional liability; there was actually some in the property with marine and energy.
It – and then of course there were some 2001 and prior where we’ve been incredibly cautious with those reserves because that’s the old legacy business that came to us when we purchased Terra Nova so we’ve been very cautious with those and have got to the point where we could release some of those reserves.
So it was a really good quarter.
The only thing I’d say is that it was a really good quarter and I wouldn’t take that into numbers in the third and fourth quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Scott Heleniak with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was just wondering the THOMCO book you said you expect $60 million in premium this year and was wondering if you had a target you might be able to share for next year for 2013? Is it – are you going to get to the – eventually get to the $150 million? They – the $60 million is a number that we feel we’ll book this year.
Obviously THOMCO writes a lot more business than that but we are also transitioning the business to Markel paper from other carriers and so the ability to forecast exactly what the slippage might be there is not something we want to do at this point.
But their volume was considerably more than $60 million.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to touch on the Markel Ventures.
Tom you mentioned some investments that you’re making there.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate in maybe some of the areas.
Is that across the board or was there a few specific divisions you can talk about? It’s across the board.
In each of the companies there are some pretty dramatic opportunities to expand.
There are competitors who have more leveraged balance sheets and are having competitive difficulties that give us the opportunity to pick up the businesses.
So we’re undergoing fairly dramatic physical expansions in a lot of the different business units.
Okay.
And then just one other one too on Markel Ventures; you acquired two Dutch companies in the quarter.
Is that – was that a one-off? Or should we continue to expect to see international acquisitions at Markel Ventures? Well the – my insurance colleagues were hanging around Holland so we were in the neighborhood.
No that just happened to be the case.
No the Markel Ventures Company in fact is – Ellicott is the most dramatic example but they do 80% of their revenue outside the U.S.
It’s a global company and has been so for decades.
AMF at the time we purchased it back in 2005 might have been 10% or 15% international; probably that’s more like 35% or 40% these days.
So a lot of these businesses are seeing international expansion opportunities and we don’t plan on geography.
What we plan on is trying to find what the best business opportunities are and going there.
Okay.
That’s helpful now that you explained that correlation there.
The other one is I just wanted to ask about the foreign government exposure you have.
Could you just remind us what exactly you have most concentrated which countries and whether you’ve reduced any exposure to any of those – any countries at all this year whether that’s changed much this year? Well the good news is that the exposures haven’t really changed because we did not have too much in the way of countries where we didn’t want to have exposure that you would read about in the headlines now.
What we do is we try to match the liabilities of our insurance policies and the – we take in premiums in euros or sterling and we’re going to make a claims payment in one of those currencies.
We buy bonds in that currency to the best of our ability to match that liability and we buy the very highest credit quality we can.
And we take the results as they are.
We don’t try to engineer our results that would be better than what the natural circumstances would create.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Let me come back to your THOMCO question.
Let me give you a little more clarity on looking forward to – when we acquired THOMCO the prior year they had placed over $160 million of premiums.
There are a couple of programs that THOMCO wrote a couple of their smaller programs that we probably won’t move to Markel paper because it’s a different underwriting appetite than what we have.
And so that could give you a little more clarity on THOMCO.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ron Bobman of Capital Returns.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks.
I had a question on E&amp;S and Aspen.
On the E&amp;S front I was wondering if you would – you touched on you’re happy with your – I think it’s app counts and your buy-in rates.
Would you give us some metrics on how those two stats compared Q2 this year versus Q1 this year? Slightly better.
It was not a lot of difference.
Okay marginally better but not all that dramatic.
Yeah.
And then I had a question about Aspen and changes there.
Will Aspen in – I wonder if you could share with us California rate changes for Aspen of late and....
I don’t have those in front of me.
We’d be happy to talk about it but it’s not inconsistent with our rate increases elsewhere which has been in the neighborhood of around 5%.
Okay.
And will it be – should we think of Aspen shrinking this year compared to last? No.
You mean in California? Well either way.
Yes I was thinking California.
At this point they’re not shrinking in total.
Okay understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And the next question is from Meyer Shields of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus</strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Meyer.
Good morning.
Nicolaus</strong> Two quick questions I think if I can; one on the international or the London side we saw the expense ratio up 300 basis points sequentially.
Is that a consequence of the reserve releases? It’s two things.
It’s the deferred acquisition accounting which – how many points is that? In London? In London.
Anyway we’ll find that.
The other thing is with the significant reserve releases we’ve got better bonus accruals going up so it’s interesting there.
We – you put up – you have prior-year reserve releases but there’s no such thing as prior-year bonus expense that goes against this year’s bonus – this year’s expense ratio.
So a little bit of a mismatch when you think about it.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And when we calculate that tax rate for the London segment should we be using U.K.
corporate tax rate? Can you say that one again? I’m sorry.
Nicolaus</strong> Yeah.
I’m just – if we try and break up the expected tax calculations based on the geographic regions (inaudible).
I guess is that reasonable? Should we use U.K.
corporate tax rates for the London Insurance Market segment? No the way that U.S.
works is it taxes you at 35% on everything you make in the world.
So really the thing you should think about probably is we pretty much have a 35% rate other than our muni portfolio which is not taxed.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Adam.
What’s your overall loss trend in workers’ comp for 2012? And what’s that trend in California workers’ comp? I don’t have those with me.
I don’t have that information here.
Okay that’s fine.
As far as THOMCO what – are those programs rolling right now the programs you’re keeping the main ones? They are pretty stable.
They are in the transition.
We’re being very careful and trying to be efficient in what we’re doing because we are transitioning from another company’s paper to our paper which requires notices and everything else.
But they are very stable.
Okay.
And then finally on the Lloyd’s reserve release; you have had significant redundancies but this is a bigger number.
Could you do some review or why was the number that big this quarter? Well really we didn’t do anything differently.
We’ve – like I said I think we were probably – if anything we’ve been fairly cautious the last few years given the decline in the market.
And 2008 and 2009 have gotten to an age now where you can believe what you’re seeing in terms of development.
And that really drove it more than anything.
We are very very consistent in terms of how we work with reserves and put up the margin in safety in terms of our reserves.
So nothing really changed other than just we’ve gotten to a point on those two accident years where you can believe what you’re seeing.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And I want to just emphasize one point about the reserve release discussion.
We’re talking about geography on the right-hand side of the balance sheet in terms of accounting whether it’s in the loss reserves or retained earnings by the time reserves are released.
The good news is that over on the left-hand side of the balance sheet the assets the number is unchanged.
The cash was collected a long time ago; it’s in the investment portfolio.
It’s making money no matter what geography you have it on the right-hand side of the balance sheet.
And I think that’s a fundamentally important point that goes into the comprehensive economic thinking of the way we run things around here.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We’re glad you joined us.
We look forward to seeing you again soon.
Thanks.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Markel Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to your speaker Tom Gayner President.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation third quarter conference call.
We’re pleased to bring you today’s report on our solid year-to-date economic return and we look forward to your thoughtful questions about our strategy performance recent developments and plans for our future.
We’ll also cheerfully answer your other questions.
To start off our Chief Financial Officer Anne Waleski will review the overall numbers from the first nine months.
Then my Co-Presidents Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt will discuss our international and domestic insurance activity.
I will then cover investments in the Markel Ventures operations and then we will open the floor for your questions.
Before getting started with today’s lineup the rules say we need to repeat the safe harbor statement.
So here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as described under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statements in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the ‘Investor Information’ section under ‘Non-GAAP Reconciliation’ or in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
With that let me turn it over to Anne.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
As I will discuss in more detail in just a minute our financial results for the quarter benefited from strong investment performance underwriting profits on our ongoing business and increased revenue and profitability from our Markel Ventures company.
Our favorable year-to-date underwriting performance was driven by fewer than anticipated catastrophe events in the first nine months of 2012.
However we do have losses from the storm that hit the East Coast last week.
Our underwriting plans and catastrophe management teams are currently reviewing our exposures but we do not expect to have solid estimates of our losses for several more weeks.
Our losses from Sandy will however be estimated before yearend and will be reflected in our fourth quarter results.
Now we will get into the financial results.
I will follow the same format in discussing the results as in past quarters.
I will focus my comments primarily on year-to-date results.
I will start by discussing our underwriting operations followed by a brief discussion of our investment results and bring these two together with a discussion of our total results.
Our total year-to-date operating revenues grew 13% to $2.2 billion in 2012 from $1.9 billion in 2011.
The increase is due to an 8% increase in revenue from our insurance operations and a 51% increase in revenue from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results gross written premiums for the nine months of 2012 were $1.9 billion which is an increase of 8% compared to 2011.
The increase in 2012 was due to higher gross premium volume in each of our three operating segments.
Net written premiums were up 7% to the prior year at $1.7 billion.
Retentions were flat in 2012 at 89%.
Earned premiums increased 8% again the increase in 2012 was due to higher earned premium volume in each of our three operating segments.
Increases in gross net and earned premiums have all benefited from our recent insurance acquisitions in the specialty admitted segment.
Our combined ratio was 96% for the nine months of 2012 as compared to 105% in 2011.
The combined ratio for 2012 includes $41 million or three points of expense related to our prospective adoption of the new DAC accounting standards and $9 million or less than one point of underwriting loss from hurricane Isaac in 2012.
The 2011 combined ratio included $133 million or nine points of underwriting losses related to the catastrophe events which occurred last year in the U.S.
Australia New Zealand and Japan.
Setting aside the impact of the prospective adoption of the new DAC accounting standard in 2012 and the effect of catastrophes in both 2012 and 2011 the improvement in our year-to-date combined ratio was primarily due to lower current accident year loss ratios in the Excess and Surplus lines in London insurance market segment.
Favorable development on prior year’s loss reserves represented 17 points on the combined ratio in both 2012 and 2011.
Included in the favorable development is $31 million of unfavorable loss reserve development on Asbestos and Environmental exposures within our existing tenured line segments.
We completed our annual review of these exposures during the third quarter.
During this year’s review we reduced our estimate of the ultimate claim counts while increasing our estimate of the number of claims that would be closed with an indemnity payment.
Based upon this information prior year loss reserves for Asbestos and Environmental will increase.
Next I will discuss the results of our non-insurance operations which we call Markel Ventures.
In 2012 year-to-date revenues from our non-insurance operations were $345 million compared to $229 million in 2011.
Year-to-date net income to shareholders from our non-insurance operations was $3.6 million in 2012 compared to $8.9 million in 2011.
Revenues from our non-insurance operations increased in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to our acquisitions WI Holdings Incorporated in late 2011 and Havco in 2012.
Next turning to our investment results; investment income was up 6% in 2012 to just under $208 million.
Net investment income for the nine months of 2012 included a favorable change in the fair value of our credit default swap of $13.7 million compared to an adverse change of $2.7 million in 2011.
During 2012 financial markets improve and credit spreads narrowed which favorably impacted our credit default swap.
Net realized investment gains were $25 million and versus 2012 and 2011.
Net realized gains for the nine months of 2012 included $4 million of write-downs for other than temporary declines in the estimated fair value of investments compared to $15 million in 2011.
Unrealized gains increased $313 million before taxes in 2012 driven primarily by increases in equity securities.
Tom will go into further detail on investments in his comments.
Looking at our total results for 2012 the effective tax rate was 19% in 2012 compared to an effective tax rate of 17% in 2011.
The increase is primarily due to anticipating a smaller tax benefit related to tax-exempt income as a result of projecting higher pre-tax income for 2012 as opposed to 2011.
We reported net income to shareholders of $197 million compared to $92 million in 2011.
Book value per share increased 12% to $395 per share at September 30 2012 up from $352 per share at yearend.
Finally I’ll make a couple of comments on cash flow and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $240 million for the nine months ended September 30th 2012 compared to approximately $261 million for the same period of 2011.
The decrees in net cash provided by operating activities was due to lower underwriting cash flows for the London Insurance Market segment primarily due to increased claims settlement activity during 2012.
Investments in cash at the holding company were approximately $1.1 billion at the end of September as compared to a little less than $1.2 billion at the December 31 2011.
The decrease in invested assets is primarily the result of acquisitions made during 2012.
With this I will turn it over to Mike to further discuss operations.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
Third quarter results for both ENS and Specialty divisions were again positive from a gross written premium perspective.
As Anne said ENS gross written premium increased 6.9% for the quarter versus 2011 and 6.3% for the nine months versus 2011.
And Specialty division gross written premium increased 9.1% for the quarter and 14.9% for nine months compared to the same period of 2011.
The growth in the Specialty Admitted segment was substantially due to the booking of $17 million in the quarter and $43 million year-to-date from the THOMCO acquisition which we was announced in January and 16% increase in volume for the workers’ compensation line of business.
To-date our retention of the THOMCO business through nine months is exceeding our expectations.
Growth from THOMCO and FirstComp was offset by reduced volume in our accident and health property and casualty individual risk and special division due to this division to exit certain lines of business.
The combined ratio for the E&amp;S segment was 89% for the quarter and 91% from nine months compared to 89% and 88% perspective for the same period in 2011.
The combined ratio for the Specialty Admitted segment was 109% for the quarter and 108% for nine months compared to 116% and 109% for the same periods in 2011.
With regards the expense ratio the E&amp;S segment expense ratio was flat for the quarter and slightly better for nine months excluding the impact of the new DAC accounting methodology and increased profit-sharing accruals.
For the Specialty divisions the expense ratio excluding DAC and higher profit sharing expenses in 2012 was slightly improved for the quarter but flat year-to-date compared to 2011.
Clearly one of the highlights for the quarter announcement of the new Haggerty-Markel relationship.
We are extremely pleased that Haggerty’s management chose Markel as its underwriting partner for the future.
As all of you know Haggerty is a widely known as de-brooker in the collective card and health insurance business.
They are well-managed highly focused specialty firm that continues grow their business.
Markel looks forward to long and profitable relationship Haggerty and his team.
Another important highlight of the Specialty division was the appointment on Mondeo this week of Greg Thompson is President of Markel’s Specialty.
Greg has been in the insurance business for over 30 years.
He led THOMCO for 32 years growing it from a small operation to a large programs administrative.
Markel acquired THOMCO in January 1 of 2012 and in his new role Greg will report directly to me.
I am confident that his leadership and experience will be a great boost for our Specialty division.
Additional highlights for the Specialty division include Markel American launch of a new product targeted at avid bicyclists which offers physical damage for high end bicycles and liability and medical payments for the rider.
Markel agents knew that FirstComp submitted more than 3 000 new accounts year-to-date resulting in new premiums in excess of six figures.
Also year-to-date 611 first comp agents have signed producer agreements with Markel which should contribute to our cross-selling efforts.
Regarding the E&amp;S segment the recent creation of the chief underwriting position is producing positive results.
Jeff Lamb is proving to be a valuable link between product management and the regions in our product line leadership group.
Our E&amp;S Division is working closely with our product line management on growing possible lines of business.
During the quarter we also shifted 13 experienced underwriters to direct underwriting roles in the regions.
Our goal is to get more experienced underwriting authority closer to the field and improve our response times for our agents and increase our chances for success.
A number of our E&amp;S Associates attended the Annual National Conference where we held 243 meetings with various agents and brokers.
Based on those meetings we remain very encouraged about our opportunities to continue to grow our E&amp;S business.
I’d like to congratulate Scott Culler who heads our West region on his appointment to the National Board.
I am also pleased to announce that Phil Freda join Markel as Managing Director for public entity business.
Phil brings more than 20 years public entity experience to Markel and previously managed the significant book of this business.
Our goal is to significantly expand our position in this niche which has been very profitable for Markel.
Also Mike Vought has been promoted to Managing Director of Casualty.
Michael continues to show his responsibilities for Umbrella business.
He has 25 years of experience and is well equipped to direct this important line of business for Markel.
Throughout North America and in the entire company we continue to work aggressively to reduce cost.
Riche and I have asked the leaders of all of our shared services to focus on process improvement and deliver their services more efficiently.
These efforts are critical to reducing our expense ratios and our leaders have embraced this initiative.
Finally with regards to the rate environment rates remain stable enabling Markel to achieve single-digit rate increases on cat property business and workers’ compensation.
The casualty business remains competitive but we expect to continue to achieve modest rate increases there as well.
At this point we anticipate a similar rate environment for 2013.
I’ll turn the call over to Richie to talk about our international operations.
Richie?  Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
I’ll start off and talk a little bit about results of Markel International for the first nine months and then I’ll cover all the few things at the corporate level.
During the first nine months of 2012 Markel International’s gross written premiums grew 4% to $705 million.
There was a little bit of that effect on that.
If you would kept the constant rate of exchange it would have about 6% growth.
Significant areas of growth continue to be in the energy and catastrophe-exposed property areas.
This has been partially offset by declines in some of our professional liability lines.
Pricing trends that we talked about in the first two quarters have largely continued in the third quarter.
We continue to see price increases on property in the marine energy business.
However as the year progressed price increases in these areas have moderated.
Our overall average price increase of renewal business for the first nine months of the year was right away on 5%.
Cat property increases have generally been between the 10% and 20% and energy has seen single-digit increases.
All the other lines have seen relatively stable pricing.
Despite price increases in these areas in many areas the market is still pretty competitive.
As an example while we’ve been able to maintain our modestly push pricing in our professional liability division premium volume is down against prior year as a result.
International’s combined ratio for the nine months of 2012 was 88%.
That includes 2 points of expenses related to the adoption of the new DAC accounting standard.
Obviously as opposed to the significant cat losses we experienced in 2011 our first nine months of 2012 results include minimal catastrophe losses with Hurricane Isaac been the largest – event and approximately $3 million.
The nine months result also – from $119 million of prior-year favorable to development across a variety of programs and there we’ve set a lot of time in operate again we always try to establish reserve due to more likely redundancy and deficient.
However the releases we have experienced in the first nine months at Market International are more than we normally would have expected and are the result of favorable development across the number of the product lines including the 2001 in prior reserves.
Moving to the Markel levels while the first nine months 2012 as Anne said we were benign from catastrophe standpoint.
Markel’s fourth quarter will be impacted by hurricane Sandy which hits the northeast U.S.
last week.
Our thoughts go out all those affected which includes many of our Markel associates.
We’re currently working to assist the policy holders with your claims and recovery efforts but it’s still very early in the loss adjustment recovery base and we’re going to have to work over the next several weeks to determine the strong financial impact to Markel.
Finally I’d like to mention two promotions at the Markel corporation level.
Brad Kiscaden has been promoted to Executive Vice President of Markel.
Brad has been with Markel for over 25 years many of these years with our chief actuary.
Brad and his team have been instrumental and implementing and safe keeping our reserving philosophy which has been one of the corner stone’s of our success for over the years.
Brad will be adding IT to his areas of responsibility and is going to be moving to Richmond to join our senior executive team.
Ron Harry is going to be stepping into the role of chief actuary for North American.
Ron has been Brad’s partner for many years and played a critical role in the recent implementation of our data warehouse.
I’d just like to congratulate both Brad and Ron – I inevitably failed to mention them on last quarter’s call.
At this point I’d like to turn it over to Tom and afterwards we’ll be glad to take your questions.
Thank you Richie.
And what I’m sure comes as relates to my colleagues my comments today will be shorter than usual hence I think the numbers largely speak for themselves.
As Ann mentioned earlier book value per share grows to a new record high up $395 as of September.
Comprehensive income so far in 2012 $426 million created an increase in book value per share of roughly $43 or 12% during the first nine months.
I am very happy with those results and I hope you are as well.
After some details during the first nine months the total return on the investment portfolio was 7.4% equities enjoyed a return of 15.5% and fixed income produced a positive overall return of 4.5%.
At Markel Ventures we enjoyed a great third quarter and that brought year-to-date results closer to my expectations.
Revenues totaled approximately $345 million and EBITDA totaled roughly $41 million.
That compares to revenues of $228 million a year ago and EBITDA of roughly $34 million.
As always a reconciliation of EBITDA of net income is available on the Markel Corporation website.
Additionally during the quarter we completed the acquisition of Tromp Bakery Systems in the Netherlands which makes the equipment for pizza pastry pie and bread makers.
We also purchases controlling interest in running Reading Bakery Systems which make bakery equipment for the production of crackers cookies and other baked snacks.
They will operate as part of our AMF Bakery Systems business and we think we will do very well with these services as long as the (inaudible) that can become popular again.
Additionally the growth of Markel Venture should provide our shareholder with positive returns and cash flow even when we’re seen news headlines that affect the short-term results of our insurance business.
We are relentless in our drive to build the value of the Markel Corporation and Markel Ventures should continue to be a growing force to help make that happen.
In the equity portfolio our focus on high-quality securities as well as our commitment to continuing to invest in equities paid off.
During the first nine months we earned 15.5% compared to the S&amp;P 500 total return of 16.4%.
I never like to underperform ever.
But in shorter-term measurement periods it happens all the time.
I’m comforted by the fact that we earned these returns in 2012 despite not earning one of the most popular stocks of all time was contributed 700 basis points to this year’s S&amp;P return.
We have a long history of earning excellent investment returns without owning the stocks that most people are talking about.
And over time this approach has served to reduce risk and create outperformance during tough periods.
Over the last 23 years a longer and more meaningful timeframe we outperformance the S&amp;P 500 by a 150 basis points a year.
Our equities have also outperformed the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index by 280 basis points a year which demonstrates the value we add to our shareholder by sticking with a relatively unpopular idea of investing in stocks.
Equities now represents roughly 52% of our total shareholder’s equity up from 55% at year end.
We continue to be steady and regularly add to our equity investment portfolio and we expect to continue to do so.
As you heard from my colleagues revenues are going up around the year and we’ve ideas for where to invest the money.
In our fixed income operations we earned a total return of 4.5%.
I’ll repeat what I’ve repeated before and be just a surprise to say at this time and the last time.
Interest rates moved lower yet again during the third quarter so we over-earned the coupon from our bond portfolio.
Yet again I continue to be amazed that this is happening and we’ll remain every more defensively positioned for this portfolio.
Duration for the overall bond portfolio is now the new record low for us to slightly less than three years.
The perverse good news is that the opportunity cost of holding an ever-shorter duration bond portfolio continues to go down.
Given the low rates at the front and long-end of the curve we could not stretch for yield even if we wanted to.
There isn’t any worthwhile yield out there to be.
As such we have a portfolio with the difference between what one would call action equivalence and longer-term fixed income instruments continues to diminish.
That means that for all practical purposes we have a lot of cash and all of the options that go which such as deploying it at higher rates of return or chance to do so.
It also means we’re protecting our balance sheet against the raising interest rates even more than last quarter and last year.
You might recognize that the – sound of these comments I remain convinced of that this is prudent way to manage the portfolio.
In total the comprehensive results of our insurance investments and Markel Ventures operations produced excellent results for your family so far this year.
I’m excited as we continue a long-tem path of building one of the world’s great companies and we look forward to your questions.
With that Kathleen if you’d open the mic for questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question is coming from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Your line is live.
Thanks.
Good morning.
– next quarter.
Hey Adam.
Couple of different questions.
You mentioned that you are discontinuing a couple of lines in the ENS segment and A&amp;H some properties some specialty roughly how big are those books of business and.
It was in the Specialty segment.
Sorry Specialty...
We’re not exiting all.
The couple of lines that we’re exiting Adam are very small.
Okay.
The lands that we have for a while and we just don’t growing them.
But also in the A&amp;H segment we’re exiting several lines that just haven’t been profitable for us and we are shrinking our A&amp;H because of that.
But I don’t have the total in front of me.
Okay.
Okay.
And so you think that process will be done by the end of this year or is that going to run into 2013?  Mostly so.
Some of lines we have not announced yet and that will happen over the course of next year.
But those are the smaller lines.
I mean they are really small.
But all of this is to improve our results and our loss ratio on the specialty business.
Okay.
And your accident year of loss ratios and catastrophes again were good and lower than last year but sequentially they were up in the third quarter compared to the first half in the E&amp;S and especially admitted I guess why were they up a little.
I think that is primarily related to adjusting our profit sharing accrual in the third quarter.
It’s just something we do each year.
We’ll be looking at it again this year in the fourth quarter given the storm that just occurred.
But I think that’s what’s driving what you’re seeing.
Okay.
Makes sense.
And then as far as – first what sort of rate increases are you getting in that book of business and will that business be more profitable going forward do you think?  Yeah.
The first comp is trending to exactly the way we wanted to trend and they are in the same boat.
They’re getting 4% or 5% rate increases.
But we’re also as I said in the last quarter call changing our geographic mix there.
I mean they’re on track to do exactly what we want them to do.
They’re moving in the right direction.
The trends are good.
And then not only adjusting rate where they can but they’re changing their geographic mix and we’re exiting in some areas where it’s not possible be in the contest.
Okay.
That was all my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
(Operator instruction).
Thanks you.
Your next question is coming from Arash Soleimani from Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is live.
Hi Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a couple of questions here.
I know you talked about rates are little bit.
Looking at the CIB markets fell recently looks they tick down.
So my question is is that just lumpiness or is that indicative of a trend that is going get your thoughts around that.
I would say its lumpiness.
If you look at the CIB analysis and another analysis there are taking down a little bit but it was minor it’s lumpy.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And then think you mentioned something about the tax rate for the first nine months but looking at the third quarter what was that attributable through the pretty low tax regime.
During this third quarter we changed our estimates of how much of our foreign income be taxed in the U.S so basically which is the part of the benefit have a lower rate in the quarter which ultimately change the expected tax rates for the year downwards  And then just sort of that may be – but in terms of the Specialty business going back to E&amp;S is that continuing? Is that slowing down or accelerating? I just wanted to get some thoughts around that.
In terms of what the volume or the rate?  Just the volume.
Are you talked about the E&amp;S segment or are you talking about those Specialty segment.
I’m sorry.
Let me clarify.
I was talked more about the Specialty carriers coming business back or letting the Specialty carriers handle that business more so than they have in the past.
The only way I can answer that is that we continue to be pleased with the submission counts that we’re getting and obviously our ENS business is growing.
Based on all of the business that we had I attended a lot of myself at Nashville.
We are very encouraged with our relationships with also brokers and we’re seeing some modest improvement there business going back.
It’s not a – something not a waterfall at this point.
Okay great.
Thank you so much for your time.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Ron Bobman of Capital Returns.
Hi good morning.
I had some Sandy E&amp;S questions of a general nature.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the prevalence in – and I guess you started to use the world traditional E&amp;S but if there is sort of a core E&amp;S product.
How prevalent flood sub-limits appear in that blend of business for that sub-segment.
And then also sort of BI how often are there sort of constraints or limitations of coverage with respect to BI in core E&amp;S commercial products? Thanks for your thoughts on that.
Well Richie is going to jump in on this too but a lot of it has to do with the payrolls obviously that are insured under our property policy.
And if there is no flood coverage for the property there is not going to be a different coverage for business interruption.
It stands on the risk.
We write some for not a lot of.
And our exposure is more wind.
And I think Ron I think it’s going to be all across the board.
I mean different people are going to do different things in terms of the flood sub-limits or the waiting period for the business interruptions I mean it’s going to be all over the math but typically as Mike said there is no flood coverage for the properties.
There will be no flood coverage for the BI and it all depends.
If people do have flood coverage there is usually pretty substantial deductibles on these policies.
So it will be a different opinion on what the property is and who recovers it with.
Is there anything uniform or common practice in the New York New Jersey Pennsylvania ENS market whereby those policies as compared to other geographies had more or less flood sub limiting or...?  There’s really nothing standard in the business anywhere.
I think that clearly you think that if you think it as the Southern East Coast or you think of earthquake in California you tend to think that that’s a more of the area.
At the more what area?  More exposed area.
Okay.
But in terms of but there is not there is just no standard.
I mean clearly there is exposure in New York and New Jersey as we unfortunately found out.
But everybody was there.
It was just a matter of the frequency.
Right.
And if you kind of think where one ENS company may have had a more restrictive form or underwriting selection process.
I mean certainly that could happen.
I mean again there is no standard.
And you have thoughts worth sharing on the topic of DI or flood in ENS or in the context of Sandy?  I think we’re all just going to have wait and see how – the situation’s obviously still developing.
I mean the recovery efforts were delayed with recent storms.
So I think it’s going to just take everybody a little while to deal with the actual situation end up being.
I mean everybody has seen the numbers that industry numbers that people look in attempting to predict and I think most people feels those are going to continue to creek upward.
We just going to – I think we all of us just need to let the people work on recovery and let the claims come in and we’ll – how it looks like.
Thanks to your part.
Is it safe to assume that call the pressure or the appearance in personal lines with respect to storm sub-limits not being windstorm submit basically being deteriorated is it safe to assume that we’re not going to place that in the commercial area in any form.
I would say it’s going to be – I mean everybody remembers in Katrina there was obviously lots of rego action and the departments of insurance were active in terms of interpreting helping to interpret what they thought coverage meant.
So I would suggest and I would assume that it would be a similar situation that you would see – you would see people trying to work through what the coverage is.
So I expect a very similar sort of that situation there.
All right.
Thank you everybody.
Best of luck.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Ray Lardella of Macquarie.
Thanks and good morning to everyone.
So just a follow up a little bit on the Sandy I am not going to ask estimates or anything of that nature just curious in terms of business segments.
Do you think you have exposure on each one or is the discretion in the embedded market not going to have any exposure I am assuming that the answer is no.
Yeah we’ll have exposure in each of our segments.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I know Tom you mentioned the amount of cash you guys have just curious on I know you’ve been a little bit acquisitive in the Markel Venture side.
But just curious in terms of two on the insurance side how was the M&amp;A environment looking this is?  Well I would say on the insurance side it’s normal.
I mean we see things.
We have things presented to us.
And as we have said on this call before we may look at 10 or 15 or 20 things before we find one that we plan one that quite find attractive and then of course then it’s a matter of can we do a deal that needs our return results requirements.
And I would echo Mike’s comments.
I mean in terms of the acquisition environment fortunately Markel has become a well known acquirer of insurance and other businesses.
So as a consequence we did a lot of inbound phone calls and the good news about that is to find the one as you really wanted to.
It helps to look at a lot and you don’t just been part of the flows it’s very helpful and we continue to see robust for.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I mean in terms of return requirements is there any sort of benchmark that we should be thinking about when you guys look at acquisitions.
Well before we would lay out of dollar of capital that we have any discussion about at all and this would be the public equity investment portfolio looking at insurance committee deal looking at a non-insurance committee deal.
It’s got to start with double digit for us to if we willing to expand capital and that remains the case.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you again.
Thank you.
Your next question is coming from John Fox Fenimore.
Your line is open.
Yeah good morning everyone.
Hi John.
Hi John.
Two questions and a comment.
Did I miss in London I am reading this correct the growth rate and premium was down could you comment on that?  It’s down a little bit in the third quarter John.
I mean it’s up year-to-date.
Right.
But we have been doing some acquisitions and opening offices over the last several years and so I mean I think we have kind of gotten to a sort of steady state in London now and as I said we have had some nice growth in the (property and the marine and energy but the other side of that is we’ve had a little bit of shrinkage on some of our professional liability lines because as I was saying there’s still – we have a competitor there.
Okay yeah I just sort of saw what kind of general lift in rates there would be.
I mean am I being too optimistic or are the rate increases are not that great or?  No we’re still getting – we’re still seeing rate increases.
The other thing and Mike pointed out is we did discontinue our U.S.
binding property earlier in the year so that that obviously is impacting it a little bit but there is no concern there.
It’s sort of what we would have expected for the third quarter.
Okay.
And then I know you guys talk year-to-date but I have another question on the third quarter.
And if I’m doing this correct with your accounting change but the expense ratio looked higher than it has been and I’m just using the $225 million?  Yes John again I think that’s the profit-sharing accrual the incentive comp accrual increase that we did in the third quarter.
Okay.
Yeah John and this is something that’s probably worth just talking about for everybody.
Okay.
So we have pretty – we have had a very nice prior-year redundancies come through this year.
We pay out our profit-sharing to the underwriters as the year develops.
So as we have more favorable developments we increase the profit-sharing accrual.
So that prior year development it’s wonderful when it comes through but it has an impact on the current year expense ratio when we have to put of the bonus accruals.
We know how to do that.
Yeah that’s terrific.
Okay and the comment with Tom Gayner the 10-year treasury yields was decline 1 basis point since the end of the quarter Tom.
Well the rate of change is slowing there.
That’s one.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Scott Heleniak of RBC Capital Markets.
Yeah good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Just wondering if you’re having any other details on the – acquisition you made.
I’m assuming that’s an MGA you convert to Hagerty to premiums but can you talk about what kind of size that might be?  We always think that we have said that if you look at Hagerty for 2011 essentially was for the that we’re acquiring a Shell company there essentially it was Hagerty business in their previous carrier and they had $170 million in that entity in 2011.
Okay.
And how much of that you plan to keep? I don’t know if you’re going to talk about  Hagerty is a growing business.
Okay.
All right.
Fair enough.
And then I wanted to talk to that’s just about the pricing environment some of the competitors has talked about how they expect rates to increase pretty significantly next year in the north east just because of what we’re seeing with Sandy on property.
Do you do you see that acquiring out and if so do you think that has any kind of staying power?  I think we have to wait and see as I’ve said in my earlier comments obviously I can understand what somebody would say that.
All right but we are expecting right now we are expecting the same kind of rate environment in 2013 that we’ve seen so far in 2012 and we’re planning accordingly.
Okay.
And then just the final question I had was just on Markel Ventures I think the target that you gave few years ago was to reach – sure reach $500 billion.
You are kind of running almost at that run rate $500 million in revenue and I’m just wondering if there is a particular target where you see that going in the next sort of 5 to 10 years or longer term?  Well the real target is to layout capital and produced double-digit returns for having done so and to do that in a claw walk run fashion and we continue to do that.
You are correct the run rate of revenue is probably north of $500 million at this point.
We continue to see opportunity and we’re pleased in large part with the way the businesses are running and developing.
We’re also learning lessons as we go along and we will continue to be prudent and if I look at the 5 or 10 years I am certainly expecting to be a bigger business but that will come in lumps depending on our skills and the opportunities we see.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jay Cohen Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is live.
Yeah thank you.
A couple of questions I guess if you could break out in the international business what – roughly what percent of that business would be catastrophe reinsurance?  Well catastrophe reinsurance is probably about $60 million $70 million book of business.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
And then secondly obviously the ventures earnings it’s a relatively new business that’s growing it’s hard to pin down quarter-to-quarter from our standpoint.
There does seem to be just looking the last two to three years some seasonality where the third quarter seems to be bigger from an earnings standpoint.
Am I reading too much into this?  Well a little bit.
We do have one business that is very concentrated in the third quarter but it’s small.
I mean that’s our dorm room furniture businesses for colleges and universities.
We can think about when students are out of school that is when we scramble and put everything in place and send them the bills so the biggest chunk of our earnings is indeed concentrating in the third quarter but that is a relatively small business.
The other factor is just sort of a luck of a draw over the last couple of years the capital equipment business by definition is a lumpy business and we’ve just happened to hit on some larger orders during the third quarter but I wouldn’t assign seasonality to those factors.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Tom.
Thank you.
Your next question is coming from David West of Davenport &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Good morning.
Mike one for you first on your comment from the casualty environment you described it as competitive.
Do we infer from that that rates are flat or are you getting any rate increase at all?  We’re still getting modest single digit rate increases there.
It’s just more competitive I think than maybe some of the property lines this year but we are getting rate increases there though.
Okay.
All right.
Very good.
Thanks for that clarification.
And Tom just looking at ventures the EBITDA margin year-to-date is running about 12% versus 15% last year.
I guess given your pretty conservative nature they way you look things at Markel and account of them as you’re being inquisitive should you expect some pressure on the EBITDA margin with Ventures.
No not really I mean the businesses that we look at typically they have to be double-digit EBITDA margins to be attractive to us.
So some businesses will have higher EBITDA margins often times they have a lower higher capital spending requirements so you sort of net that out.
I mean I’m looking at the true cash returns that as a general rule I want double-digit EBITDA margins and would not – may not be disappointed if I give a lot of that.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from (inaudible) of KBW.
Good morning.
I just have one question on reinsurance.
I know you’re not heavy users of reinsurance at all but just curious if you can tell us what type of property cat reinsurance coverage you have.
Well we have several key reinsurance around property tax and so it’s a little hard to kind of give you a summary of that.
One of the things you can do invest in their reports they could kind of a quick and – profile of the reinsurance and that might be worth looking at.
But basically we have those risk insurance so for example we have some share on some of those business we have some excess loss reinsurance it will come into play and then we buy tax reinsurance which or the majority of that business cash is at about a $100 million and then we will participate to some extend later that it goes it.
But it’s not as easy telling we’ve got one tower we have various towers and we have various heights of reinsurance both risk and cap that will respond.
Okay.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions).
I am sorry.
No further questions coming into queue at this time.
All right.
Well with that thank you very much for joining us.
We’d look forward to seeing you around the neighborhood.
Take care.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
It does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Tom Gayner and along with my colleagues Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt we welcome you to the Markel Corporation fourth quarter conference call.
Before we get started we are required to remind you of the Safe Harbor provision.
So here it goes.
As a reminder comments made on today's call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements may relate either to Markel or to our proposed acquisition of Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd.
and the operation of the combined company after the acquisition.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risks.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the full disclosure regarding the risks that may affect Markel Alterra and the proposed transaction which may be found in our February 4th 2013 press release as well as in Markel's and Alterra's most recent annual reports on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the transaction.
Finally please note that the following communication is not an offer in itself or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or solicitation of any voter approval.
We urge the investors and security holders to read the registration statements on Form S-4 including the joint proxy statement/prospectus and all other relevant documents filed with the SEC and sent to stockholders because they contain important information about the proposed transaction.
In addition Markel Alterra and the respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in any solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction.
Information regarding the interest of these participants can be found in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and Markel's and Alterra's proxy statements filed with the SEC for the 2012 Annual Meeting.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures in the press release which can be found on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section.
With that said we're pleased to you're joining us this morning; 2012 stands as an eventful year at Markel.
We're also pleased with the financial results that we're reporting to you this morning and we hope you like the numbers as well.
More importantly we hope to give you at least some glimmer of understanding of what is going on around here operationally and some insight into the underlying business reality that these numbers attempt to describe.
The actions steps and transactions that we undertook in 2012 changed the arc of our future and we hope that you are as excited and as confident as we are as these are productive steps forward for Markel and its shareholders.
As always we look forward to your thoughtful questions about the business.
And with that as a kick off I'd like turn things over to Ann.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I'm really happy to be able to report today that we had an outstanding year.
Clearly as Tom said there has been a lot going on in Markel in 2012 particularly in the final months.
I'd like to take a moment now and recognize all of our associates who have driven our accomplishments and results.
Without them and their efforts on a day-to-day basis none of this would be possible.
Our financial results for the year were very strong benefitting from robust investment performance underwriting profits on our ongoing business and increased revenue and profitability from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Our favorable year-to-date underwriting performance was driven by lower losses for catastrophe events in 2012 more favorable development of prior year loss reserves and lower attritional losses.
Our total year-to-date operating revenues grew 14% to $3 billion in 2012 from $2.6 billion in 2011.
The increase is due to 9% increase in revenues from our insurance operations and 54% increase in revenue from Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results gross written premiums for 2012 were $2.5 billion which is an increase of 10% compared to 2011.
The increase in 2012 is due to higher gross premium volumes in each of our three operating segments.
Net written premiums were $2.2 billion up 8% to the prior year.
Retentions were down slightly in 2012 at 88% as compared to 89% in 2011.
Earned premiums increased 8%.
The increase in 2012 was due to higher earned premium volumes in each of our three operating segments.
Increases in gross net and earned premiums have all benefited from higher volume rate increases and our recent insurance acquisitions in the Specialty Admitted segment.
Our combined ratio was 97% for 2012 compared to 102% in 2011.
The combined ratio for 2012 includes $107 million or 5 points of underwriting loss from Hurricane Sandy.
The combined ratio for 2012 also includes $43 million or two points of expense related to our prospective adoption of the new DAC accounting standards.
The 2011 combined ratio included $152 million or 8 points of underwriting losses related to the catastrophe events which occurred last year in the U.S.
Thailand Australia New Zealand and Japan.
Setting aside the impact of the prospective adoption in the new DAC accounting standard in 2012 and the effect of catastrophe events with 2012 and 2011.
The improvement in our year-to-date combined ratio was primarily due to lower current accident year loss ratios in the Excess and Surplus lines in London insurance market segment.
Favorable development on prior year loss reserves represented 19 points on the combined ratio in 2012 that's compared to 18 points of the 2011 combined ratio.
The increase is a result of more favorable development on prior year loss reserves in the Specialty Admitted and London Insurance market segments.
In the London Insurance market segment the favorable development included $39 million from the 2001 and prior accident years.
While we believe it is possible that there will be additional redundancies on prior year loss reserves in 2013 we caution you not to place undue reliance on this favorable trend.
Next I'll discuss the results of our non-insurance operations which we call Markel Ventures.
In 2012 year-to-date revenue for Markel Ventures were $489 million compared to $318 million in 2011.
Year-to-date net income for shareholders from Markel Ventures was $13.5 million in 2012 as compared to $7.7 million in 2011.
EBIDTA was $60 million in 2012 as compared to $37 million in the prior year.
Revenues net income to shareholders and EBIDTA for Markel Ventures increased in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to our acquisitions of WI Holdings Inc.
Weldship in late 2011 and Havco in 2012.
Turning to our investment results our investment income was up 7% in 2012 to $282 million.
Net investment income for 2012 included a favorable change in the fair value of our credit default swap of $17 million compared to an adverse change of $4 million in 2011.
Excluding the change on the fair value of the credit default swap lower investment income on our fixed portfolio was offset by increased dividend income on our equity portfolio.
Net realized investment gains were $32 million in 2012 as compared to $36 million in 2011.
Net realized gains for 2012 included $12 million of write-downs other than temporary declines in the estimated fair value of investments as compared to $20 million in 2011.
Unrealized gains increased $354 million before taxes in 2012 driven by increases in equity securities.
Tom will go into further detail on investments in Markel Ventures in his comments.
Finally looking at our total results for 2012 the effective tax rate was 17% in 2012 as compared to 22% in 2011.
The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to higher earnings from our foreign operations which are taxed at a lower rate.
We reported net income to shareholders of $253 million compared to $142 million in 2011.
Book value per share increased 15% to approximately$404 per share at the end of 2012 up from $352 per share at year-end 2011.
I want to take a moment to remind everyone about the change to our EPF calculations which first occurred in the second quarter of 2012.
This change was required as a result of our recognition of redeemable non-controlling interest for some of our Markel Ventures minority shareholders who have the option to put their shares to us in the future generally at a big multiple of EBIDTA.
At the end of each reporting period the carrying value of this redeemable non-controlling interest is adjusted to management's current best estimates of the redemption value.
The purpose of the adjustment is to record the potential cash obligations you may have from a non-controlling interest shareholders.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 the redeemable non-controlling interest balances were marked down $3.4 million.
For the full year the balance was marked up $3.1 million.
The change is recorded through retained earnings and adjusts net income to shareholders in calculating EPF.
This calculation will be presented in our 10-K.
Turning to cash flows and the balance sheet net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $392 million for the year ended 2012 as compared to approximately $311 million for the same period of 2011.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was due to more underwriting cash flows as a result of higher premium volume and increased cash flows from Markel Ventures.
Investments and cash at the holding company were approximately $1.4 billion at the end of 2012 as compared to a little less than $1.2 billion at the end of 2011.
The increase in invested assets is primarily the result of over $400 million in dividends and loan repayments from our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries during the fourth quarter of 2012.
In December 2012 Markel announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd.
for consideration of approximately $3.1 billion.
Transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2013.
In January 2013 Markel announced that it had completed the previously announced acquisition of Essentia Insurance Company.
Through Essentia Markel will underwrite insurance exclusively for Hagerty Insurance Agency and Hagerty Classic Marine Insurance Agency throughout the U.S.
At this point I'd like to turn it over to Mike to further discuss operations.
Thanks Anne good morning.
Total gross written premium for Markel North America increased 14.6% year-over-year in the fourth quarter and 10.9% for the 12 months ending December 31st 2012.
The E&amp;S segments gross written premium increased 9.1% in the fourth quarter and 7% for 2012.
Markel Specialty segments gross written premium increased 23.4% in the fourth quarter and 17% for 2012.
Within the E&amp;S segment I'm pleased to report that all five regions gross written premium increased in the fourth quarter and for 2012.
This steady growth supports our belief that the one Markel strategy is a success and that most services issues are behind us...
Supports our belief that the One Markel strategy is a success and that most services issues behind us.
This belief this further supported by the feedback that we received recently from our binding and brokerage councils when they met in Florida.
During the fourth quarter our E&amp;S Professionals conducted over 233 agent meetings at NAPSLO and 72 meetings at the Plus conference.
This increased interaction with our agents is well organized and it is one of the reasons for our organic growth.
The E&amp;S segments combined ratio for 2012 was 93.7%.
This increase over prior year combined ratio was driven by the impact of the change and accounting methodology for deferred acquisition cost and the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
The Specialty Division’s growth was driven by the continued conversion of THOMCO’s business to Markel paper.
At the beginning of the year we told you that we expected to book $60 million in 2012 and we actually booked $79 million.
We expect to have all of THOMCO’s business converting to Markel paper during 2013.
The team at FirstComp continues to execute their plans to improved results through rate increases and geographic reorganization.
FirstComp was also a strong contributor to the Specialty division’s growth in 2012 with gross written premium totaling $257 million.
The combined ratio of 107.4% for 2012 for the Specialty division was affected by the change in accounting methodology for deferred acquisition cost one-time employee separation cost write off of an IT system and the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
As mentioned during the third quarter call we will begin booking premium for the Hagerty collector car business in 2013 and we’re looking forward to a very successful first year with this fine specialty partner.
During 2012 our product line leadership group and underwriting team achieved an overall rate change of approximately 4%.
The property business had the largest increase however we achieved positive rate movement on almost every line of business.
Also during the fourth quarter the product line group transferred 12 experienced underwriters to regional roles in order to put some of our best underwriters closer to our customers.
These underwriters produced $4 million of new business in the last two month of 2012 which supports our theory that putting more experienced authority in the field will further improve service and ultimately results.
With regards to new products we’re launching an energy program and an Accountants Professional Liability program.
We also picked up a national lawyers program that should result in $10 million of new business in 2013.
Looking back on our results in North America for 2012 we cannot help but feel very about what we’ve accomplished during the year.
Our E&amp;S segment under John Latham’s leadership exceeded budget and prior year revenues while continuing to improve service streamline the organization and expand our visibility with agents.
As pointed out earlier under the leadership of our Regional President Steve Girard Scott Culler Sarah Gavlick Susan Swanson and Greg Rubel all five regions grew in 2012.
The appointment of Jeff Lamb to Chief Underwriting Officer for the segment and Evans Nash to the Head of Marketing has increased the cooperation and communication between our product line leaders and our regions continuing to fuel organic growth.
In our Specialty Division the appointment of Greg Thompson as President of Markel Specialty completed the leadership team of that division.
The continued integration of FirstComp has progressed according to plan under Matt Parker’s leadership.
The THOMCO acquisition and integration has also gone according to plan.
Markel America grew organically under Audrey Hanken’s leadership and Carrier Alliance business had a stellar year under Mary Pat Joyce’s leadership.
We reorganized the Specialty Commercial business under the direction of Don Faison and Alex Martin and positioned that unit for successful 2013.
Gerry Albanese Executive Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer and his team of product line leaders achieved positive rate movement in vast majority of our product lines added new products and enhanced others during the quarter of 2012.
Tom Smith and his team did a great job leading the charge on our brand initiatives website development and sales initiatives.
So often in today’s hurried pace we fail to take a breath and look back at these accomplishments.
I would like to take this opportunity as Anne said to thank all of our leaders and associates that comprise Markel’s North American operation and all of our leaders and associates around the world for what they accomplished in 2012.
Now I will turn the call over to Richie.
Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
Markel International had a great year in 2012.
Gross written premium increased 8% to $887 million; significant areas of growth continue to be Marine Energy and Liability as well as catastrophe exposed property.
Throughout the year we continued to see price increases on catastrophe exposed property and Marine Energy and Liability business.
However as the year progressed price increases in these areas did moderate.
Our overall average increase at Markel International in 2012 renewal business was approximately 4%.
Cat property increases were generally in the 10% to 20% range Marine Energy and Liability had seen mid single digit increases.
All other lines have seen relatively stable pricing.
Despite price increases in certain areas many areas of the market still remains very competitive particularly in our professional liability retail areas and equine divisions.
January 1 '13 renewals were relatively stable.
The accounts that were impacted by Hurricane Sandy saw some increases while all other areas were relatively flat.
International's combined ratio for 2012 was 89% which included two points of expenses related to the adoption of the new DAC Accounting Standard.
This also included approximately $50 million or 60 points of loss in reinstatement premiums from Hurricane Sandy in the fourth quarter.
The 2012 results as Anne said benefited from a $192 million of prior year favorable development across a variety of programs.
We said it many times but I'll repeat it; we always strive to establish reserves that are more likely redundant than deficient.
However the releases we experienced in 2012 are more than we would normally expect and are the results of the favorable developments that I mentioned across the number of products including significant favorable reserve development of $39 million in 2001 in prior reserves.
I want to congratulate William Stovin Germany Brazil and the entire international team on a great year.
Now I would like to just turn to Alterra and just talk about what we have been doing since the announcement in December 19th.
We have been extremely busy since that announcement.
Before the end of the year we filed our joint proxy which went effective on January 18th and was mailed that next week to all of the shareholders.
The shareholders' votes are scheduled for February 26th.
We are in the process of obtaining regulatory approvals.
We already have clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and have made filings with Insurance Regulatory Authorities in the UK Ireland Brazil and the U.S.
While we can't predict the timing of the approval process with any great certainty we believe that this transaction could close as early as April 2013.
During January we made multiple visits to most of the Alterra offices and held meetings with Alterra's associates.
These visits have confirmed our findings from due diligence Alterra's people are extremely impressive and will be great additions to Markel.
We formed a cross-functions integration team led by Peter Minton CEO of Alterra and that's comprised of associates from both Markel and Alterra.
The team is working on a short-term tactical and long-term strategic goals for the integration.
Our short-germ goals are to quickly integrate the company's under the Markel brand with as little disruption to Alterra's customer base as possible.
Our goal was to be able to layout the new organizational structure in detail to our Alterra associates shortly after the shareholder vote in February.
At a very high level we envision a structure that includes the existing Markel insurance operations of E&amp;S Specialty and International plus reinsurance and large account business unit.
We are just getting started on the task of building the new Markel but we are pleased with the progress to-date and are excited for the deal to close so that we can move on at full speed with the integration process.
Now I would like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richard.
Comprehensive.
I want to start off my comments with that word and I plan to repeat it about a thousand times because it is such an important descriptor of how we think about things at Markel.
I suspect that we have new folks joining the conference call compared to previous periods and would like to convey a bit of how we view our challenges and opportunities in running this business.
At Markel we think about things comprehensively.
We have a comprehensive set of tools to create comprehensive income and all of them worked in 2012.
The sum total of our comprehensive income from doing so was approximately $500 million.
Just to provide you with some frame of reference on that number the entire retained earnings of the Markel Corporation didn't exceed $500 million until the end of 2004 eight short years ago.
2004 was the year we celebrated the 75th anniversary of Markel.
That means we made more money in 2012 than we made cumulatively in the previous 75 years up to 2004.
Now 2012 is just the latest character in the story of Markel and these results would not have happened without the hard work the values and the culture that was created by all (inaudible).
That said the results are cumulating nicely and the work of 2012 has produced even better outcomes in the years to come.
The components of comprehensive income are one underwriting results; two investment results; three Markel bankers' results; and four capital management results.
On cylinder one underwriting results Anne already gave you the numbers and Mike and Richie talked about our insurance operations.
Fortunately we have got some good underwriting trends in place in our insurance operations and we are all optimistic about the prospects for the existing Markel's activity as well as those at Alterra and we are even more optimistic about the prospects for the combined organization.
On cylinder two the investment side today is the fun day to report our investment returns.
The numbers are good and it's always more fun to talk about good results than bad results.
That said before we get too far into the numbers for 2012 I would like to reiterate that these numbers are just outcomes.
They are mere shadows capped by the underlying reality of the values and principles that guide our approach.
The joy with Markel is that our values and principles remain unchanged.
Every year every quarter every month and everyday we try to do our best to serve our customers across diverse markets whether that means meeting insurance needs supplying banking of drenching equipment or slicing pickle.
We also strict to conservative and time tested principles on how to manage the investment funds these activities generate.
In 2012 the results were very pleasant and some years they will not be as good.
The good news though is that when you work from the right set of principles and values more years are good than not and time has a way of validating a sound long-term approach such as what we've practiced at Markel for decades.
In 2012 all the factors available to produce comprehensive income were positive.
All of them contributed to the total and there were no negatives.
The total investment return of the portfolio was 9% whereas 19.6% our equity investment and 5.1% on our fixed income portfolio.
Over the last 23 years we've earned nearly 200 basis points of excess return per year compared to the S&amp;P 500 Index on our equity investments and we earned more than 350 basis points of excess return from our equities compared to the Barclay's Aggregate Fixed Income Index.
We are happy to accept a bit of volatility to earnings these returns since they add up the real months in the pockets of Markel shareholders over time and 2012 continues to build upon this record of adding value.
On the fixed income side we are at 5.1% for the year and I'm very pleased with this result.
I remain of the belief that the number one feature in the investment landscape is that interest rates are too low.
They keep going lower and lower although the early days of 2013 are a tad different so far.
Our response to this development is the key floating bond of shorter and shorter maturities.
Simply put we just don't think that we are being paid appropriately to accept the risk of other longer term bonds.
And that effectiveness is that we are tactically building our balances of cash and cash like fixed incomes (inaudible).
Don't worry we haven't fallen in love with cash and we do not expect to have this barbell of cash at one hand of the investment portfolio and equities to Markel Venture's operations at the other hand with very little in between for us.
What we have created is the option of redeploying this cash when opportunities are on.
Fortunately the low interest rate and a flat yield curve the opportunity because of doing so is minimum.
We're incorporating this thinking into our anticipated actions once the Alterra deal closes and I want to assure all of our shareholders that the mantra for fixed income as well as our equity activity is safety first.
I believe that we will be presented with interesting and attractive investment opportunities over the next several years and we have relatively unique structural and tactical advantages which should create good outcomes for Markel (inaudible).
On cylinder three at Markel Ventures we enjoyed revenues of approximately $490 million in 2012 up over 50% from $317 million in 2011.
Markel Ventures EBITDA grew over 60% from $37 million to $60 million and we remain optimistic about our opportunities in 2013 and beyond.
Markel Ventures contributed cash flow to the comprehensive picture at Markel in excess of the reported net income since the amortization expense related to purchase accounting is a non-cash charge not reflective of the underling profitability of the Ventures Company.
I'm pleased with the results of our Markel Ventures Group and the returns that they are producing.
Currently we remain somewhat quiet on the acquisition front given our focus on Alterra but the opportunities to grow and expand the future at Markel remain valid.
As the old saying goes when your only tool is a hammer everything looks like a nail.
The beauty of Markel is that we are not limited to working with just a hammer.
When you look at our opportunity set in insurance investment industrial equipment and machinery healthcare real estate our other products of services along with the cylinder four our capital allocation discipline in activities we have a comprehensive tool kit of hammers drills screwdrivers wrenches shovels measuring tapes T-squares levels and duct tape.
We have in real appropriate time and places to create this sort of comprehensive returns for years like what we are reporting today.
This is an amazing and unusual tool kit that continues to work well for our shareholders and we look forward to working on the progress what to do with in 2013 and beyond.
With that I would now like to open the floor for your questions.
Latanya if you could open up the call please.
Just a few questions to start off with.
Richie you gave the amount of Sandy losses that had impacted Markel International.
Could you provide the same information for the other two segments? But I didn't do that.
I don’t think I have the breakout.
The details will be in the K for sure.
The total was $107 million so you can probably take Richie’s number and backup for the other two but I don’t have the split with me.
Is it fair to assume that nearly all the rest was on the E&amp;S segment just by majority? Hold on I’m looking at the (inaudible) that Mike just handed me.
Mark we’ll give you a call with that but I don’t think we got the numbers handy.
The second question I had you had indicated the Essentia deal will close or has closed and will begin booking revenues for 2013.
In general what’s the size of the gross revenue opportunity there because maybe something what they did in 2012 for example? We don’t have the final 2012.
Keep in mind that we don’t own Hagerty; it’s a privately owned firm.
What we've said so far is if you go back to couple of years ago and look at the best reports that they’ve booked $170 million in Essentia.
So you can -- that’s a fact and then you can assume that they are growing organization and we expect them to continue to grow in 2013.
Okay.
So $170 million is kind of my baseline starting point I can assume what I want over top of that? Yeah.
Tom you normally provide the duration of your portfolio the fixed income portfolio could you give us that information? Sure.
Including the cash its less than three years now which is a record low.
So really no change from kind of which you had said in the third quarter? 90 day short.
The last question I had was really just kind of a pricing environment sort of question.
You had suggested kind of mid single-digits is that very broad across most of the product lines or I guess my comment specific to the E&amp;S and Specially Admitted business is that fairly broad across most lines of business or there is some that are standing taller than that? The property is standing taller in both segments.
They have the larger increases.
We’re in the property segment and then more modest increases in some of the casualty lines.
On average middle single-digits and we expect the same kind of environment in the early part of this year.
Thanks and good morning and Tom I can certainly appreciate duct tape being a tool I appreciate that analogy.
One question I just want to hit on quickly was the portfolio.
I mean assuming that the Alterra acquisition goes through maybe you can talk about kind of what you envision for the portfolio sort of longer-term just given that their portfolio allocations are a little bit different than Markel?  Sure longer-term it will be recast into the nature in the form and substance of the same way we have been doing things at Markel for a long time.
The barbell right now is a tactical decision that is not a fundamental strategy.
It’s just to preserve optionality and time when there is very little opportunity cost to do so.
Longer-term what we would hope to do is to deploy a good chunk of that into the equity sort of securities and things that earn positive total returns over time and the speed and the pace of that were largely driven by opportunities.
And then I guess on the fixed income side any sort of type of asset class so it is more attractive I know in terms of duration short but corporate or municipal bonds any color there? In general sort of cash is king in that regard because if you had some numbers of relative returns or basis point on top of the benchmark rates it still -- it’s a very low nominal total return.
So the idea of taking credit risk for small amounts of bps it doesn’t seem like that good an idea to me.
So we have very high credit quality and just higher and higher all the time.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And by the way I mean that also is a tactical statement about today’s market should the opportunity set be different and the rates in different securities be different and more attractive over time we are completely intellectually open-minded than [wanting] to go wherever it makes sense to -- sense we got.
I have a quick sort of long-term question which is if we were to see an extended period of inflation.
Could you just talk me through the sequence of impacts across the business across sort of current year expenses and then prior year reserve adjustments current year reserves and so on?  And then the steps that you take and how we would see that impacting the financials? Sure.
Matthew its Tom.
You can’t be precise in sequencing this because you really don't know what the form and nature of the question would hit.
So the ultimate answer to your question is that essentially (inaudible) of whatever business is on the book whatever expense picture we have whatever operations we have that sort of expires each day and you come to visit the next day and you have to re-price your insurance rate you have to rethink about what resources you need to run the business and you try to make good kind of just logical decisions on account of that.
We are not victims of huge fixed commitments and huge fixed assets which can be trapped in the form of inflate here in deflationary environment.
And we have to redo 1 365th of our business every single day and what would happen in the period of inflation deflation stable crisis whatever as we reload that business the next day when we came to the office.
I'm just calling on the deal front.
I'm just wondering if there is sort of any updates in terms of the regulatory approval front and just timeline in general?  Thanks.
(Inaudible) as I said earlier we are proceeding apace with the regulatory approval.
Obviously the states and the various regulatory entities you can't control their timing but things seem to be moving along nicely.
And with any luck we think we could get this done in April.
I had a couple of questions as it relates to the combination.
On Markel investment portfolio and the equity holdings that you have where liquidity isn't an issue should we assume that you'll sort of grow to those positions larger reflecting the larger investment portfolio that you will now be managing? Yes.
I don't think that's going to happen the day one after the close that will depend on as you say liquidity and (inaudible) pricing and what looks attractive to do but over the period of time that's exactly what should happen.
Then [I had] a question on the combination sort of corporate organizational structure and what I mean is obviously you have got I presume numerous U.S.
insurance entities that are capitalized that you use for different purposes and lines and I'm sure Alterra bring some number of those as well as I believe you both have a presence at low rates if I am not mistaken.
I am wondering if there is much material opportunity for you to sort of streamline where capital fits in the sort of underwriting entities globally and for you to sort of more efficiently or at least to sort of extract capital out from under some of these regular entities?  Thanks.
There is certainly opportunity to streamline it significantly.
On day one the goal would be to make sure we don't disrupt anything we are doing for clients.
So we'll do the short-term things first and then we'll come back and start looking at the legal entity structure.
But I think it's safe to assume we can over the next year or so really streamline the capital in the various companies.
We don't need as many insurance companies as we will have after this deal is completed and we'll work on what's the best solution for that and make sure our people have the right paper available to write the business.
How about Lloyds?  Thanks by the way.
Lloyds will have -- will go forward with one syndicate and one managing agent and that would be Markel Syndicate 3000.
I apologize if this being covered before.
But can you go through I guess the progress on the FirstComp book and any reserve changes that happened in the fourth quarter? I think the book is progressing as we expected it would probably even from early days after the acquisition and there weren’t really much in the way of adjustments during the quarter.
Yeah they are -- this is Mike.
They are absolutely executing on plan.
They really reorganized with regard to geography and where they are writing business.
We have given them different targets moving them incrementally to where we want them to be and they hit every target that we have laid out there for them and we are operating a year advance.
We have already given them their target for 2014 and they are executing on that as well.
So we are very pleased with the progress they have made and what they are doing in that business.
Excellent.
And I think Mike you talked before about the more rapid conversion of THOMCO premiums onto Markel paper is that because THOMCO is growing faster than you expected or are you just converting it faster? We convert it faster.
When we setout to do this we weren't sure of the timeframe of converting some of these programs.
I guess we'll finish converting them in 2013 so 2014 would be the first year that we have a 100% of the THOMCO business on Markel paper but we just converted a little faster.
But they are growing and they did have a good year.
I just had one question about the I guess the liability side especially your loss cost trends maybe in the North American business.
It seems like it still a pretty benign I guess legal or judgment environment especially on your longer-tail business I just did want to if you had any color on that Mike just how the trend looks like.
You still have a considerable amount of favorable development I realize a lot of those conservatism is there any -- have you have seen any changes or fluctuations in the underlying drivers behind frequency of severity especially in the long-tail bonds? I don’t think -- well this is Richie.
I don’t think we’re seeing anything significant but trend continues to move out there although I think it’s fair to say and I think most people would say it’s probably been more benign than we would have expected over the last several years.
But there clearly is some trend out there just not to the level it’s been in some historical period.
So we still need to get price increased to deal with the trend that is there and I’ll get on the soapbox a little bit and say the whole market need some rate to continue -- the rates continue to move to get to a good level across the various lines.
And I’ll add that that we were very disciplined Gerry Albanese and his team very disciplined in getting rate in 2012 and we expect them to operate exactly the same way in 2013.
So would it be fair to say that you are at or maybe slightly above loss cost trends with the ratings right now? Every line is going to be a little bit different but certainly our intention is to set our pricing to be above the loss cost trends because we want to set each ones who had underwriting profit.
But each one of our products is in a different place.
We’ve got over a hundred of them and we have to do sort of portfolio management as you would expect.
Thank you [Mark] and thank you very much for joining us.
We look forward to chatting with you again soon.
Good bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner; President and Chief Investment Officer.
Thank you sir.
You may now begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Tom Gayner and along with my colleagues Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richard Whitt we welcome you to the Markel Corporation first quarter 2013 conference call.
Before we get started we are required to remind you of the Safe Harbor provision.
So here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and cautionary statement in our most recent annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures on the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
We are off to a good start in 2013m but that's really only the small part of the story.
It’s a big big day around here as we've now closed the Alterra transaction and today marks the first day of a new era at Markel.
We welcome our new shareholders and associates; we look forward to discussing our recent results our plans for the future and answering your thoughtful questions about your company.
With that let's get started with Anne’s review of the first quarter results.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
As I'll discuss in more detail in just a minute we are off to a great start in 2013.
We've had strong underwriting results robust investment performance and increased revenue and profitability from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Premium volumes has benefited from acquisitions and organic growth.
Our favorable underwriting performance for the quarter was driven by a lower expense ratio more favorable development of prior year loss reserves and lower attritional losses.
Our total operating revenues grew 12% to $820 million in 2013 from $733 million in 2012.
The increase is due to a 6% increase in revenues from our insurance operations and a 67% increase in revenues from Markel Ventures.
Moving in to our underwriting results first quarter 2013 gross written premiums were $743 million which is an increase of 15% compared to 2012.
The increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher gross premium volumes in the Specialty Admitted segment.
As previously announced effective January 1 2013 we acquired Essentia Insurance Company which underwrites insurance exclusively for Hagerty Insurance Agency.
Hagerty is the leading insurance provider for classic cards vintage [birds] motorcycles and automotive collectible.
Gross premium volume attributable to the new Hagerty business and THOMCO which was acquired in January 2012 contributed $63 million to the Specialty Admitted segment for the first quarter of 2013.
Net written premiums were approximately $663 million up 14% to the prior year.
Net retention was down slightly in 2013 and 89% compared to 90% in 2012.
Earned premiums increased 7%.
This increase was driven by a 19% increase in earned premiums in the Specialty Admitted segment.
Our combined ratio was 91% for the first quarter of 2013 compared to 100% in 2012.
The 2012 combined ratio included $20 million or 4 points of expense related to our prospective adoption of the new DAC accounting standards.
Excluding the impact of this adoption of the DAC standard in the first quarter of 2012 the decrease in the combined ratio in the first quarter of 2013 was primarily driven by more favorable development of prior year loss reserves in the excess of surplus line segment and lower attritional losses in each of our three operating segments compared to the same period of 2012.
Favourable redundancies on prior year’s loss reserve increased to $78 million or 14 points of favourable development compared to $64 million or 12 points of favourable development in 2012.
Now I’ll talk a little bit about Markel Ventures; in the first quarter of 2013 revenue from Markel Ventures $162 million as compared to $97 million in 2012.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was $4 million in 2013 compared to $200 000 in 2012.
EBITDA was $19 million in 2013 as compared to $9 million in 2012.
Revenues net income to shareholders and EBITDA from Markel Ventures increased in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of 2012 primarily due to more favourable results at AMF Bakery Systems in our acquisition of Havco in 2012.
Now taking and look at our investment results investment income was down 19% in 2013 to just under $65 million.
Net investment income for 2013 included a favourable change in the fair value of our credit default swap of $3 million as compared to $11 million in 2012.
Net realized investment gains for the first quarter of 2013 were $18 million compared to $12 million in the first quarter 2012.
There were no writedowns for other than temporary impairments in either period.
Unrealized gains increased $250 million before taxes in 2013 driven by increases in equity securities.
Tom will make further comments and give further details about investments in his comment.
Looking at our total results for the first quarter effective tax rate was 24% in 2013 compared to an effective tax rate of 23% in 2012.
The increase was primarily due to anticipating a smaller tax benefit related to tax exemption investment income as a result of projecting higher pretax income for 2013 than in 2012.
We reported net income to shareholders of $89 million as compared to $57 million in 2012.
Book value per share increased 7% to $431 per share at March 31 2013 from $404 per share at year end.
Finally I will make couple of comments of our cash flow and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter was $56 million that compares to net cash used by operating activities of $64 million for the first quarter of 2012.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the first quarter of 2013 was driven by higher tax lifts from underwriting activities as a result of increased volumes primarily in the Specialty Admitted segment and decreased claims settlement activity as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Additionally the three months ended March 31 2013 include higher tax lifts from Markel Ventures partially offset by higher profit sharing payments compared to the same period of 2012.
Invested assets of the holding company were $1.6 billion at March 31 2013 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31 2012.
The increase in invested assets is primarily the result of our March 2013 debt issuance of $500 million partially offset by the repayment of $250 million of unsecured senior notes in February 2013.
Finally as Tom noted everyone here is very excited about today’s closing of the Alterra acquisition and the future possibilities that this transaction provides for both employees and shareholders of the combined company.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mike to further discuss our operations.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
The results for the first quarter of 2013 for North American operations were very good in a number of areas.
The growth business (inaudible) for North America operations increased 20.6% year-over-year and the expense ratio improved in both segments.
The E&amp;S segment had excellent first quarter.
Gross written premium increased 10% year-over-year once again all five regions in the E&amp;S segment saw an increase in the gross written premiums.
This increase was driven by the growth in a number of product lines including excess and umbrella medical casualty and environmental.
The E&amp;S combined ratio for the quarter was 77.5%.
The expense ratio improved year-over-year by 5.7% driven by the accounting change for DAC in 2012 with a reduction in corporate allocations.
Prior year losses were favorable due to higher takedowns across multiple lines in 2013 compared to 2012.
Keep in mind that these take downs are consistent with Markel’s historical practices.
E&amp;S segment continues to improve efficiency reducing the number of agent appointments limiting access to certain products where prior activity had been unproductive and better educating the agents about what to submit and what not to submit based on Markel’s appetite and success in our target product lines.
This improvement in efficiency is supported by the fact that binders increased 29% on almost the same number of [closed] issues.
All-in-all a simple quarter for the E&amp;S segment.
The specialty segment growth that (inaudible) increased 37.2% as a result of booking more gross written premium for THOMCO compared to the first quarter of 2012 and the addition of the Hagerty business.
We began booking Hagerty premium on January 1 of 2013.
Excluding comp sale in Hagerty the specialty division premium volume decreased slightly as a result of our terminating certain accident and health program and transfer of the garage business in E&amp;S segment.
The combined ratio in specialty segment was 108.5% which is a 4.9% improvement versus 2012.
This decrease was partially due to a decrease in FirstComp loss ratio which is the result of pricing increases and a geographical shift to more profitable non California business.
The expense ratio improved to 43.2% from 47.2% in 2012.
This improvement is primarily driven by the accounting change for DAC which added 4% to the expense ratio in the first quarter of 2012.
Excluding Hagerty and THOMCO the Specialty admitted expense ratio is down 4.6 points in addition to the impact of DAC mentioned above.
This is driven by lower headcount lower profit sharing costs and lower overhead charges.
The expense ratio was negatively impacted by the fact that we front loaded some assets and expenses for Hagerty.
FirstComp and THOMCO businesses were still in transition and we continue to build margin of safety and loss reserve in these product lines and on the Hagerty business consistent with Markel preserving the pricing philosophy.
We are currently conducting a detailed review of all specialty product lines for those specialty product lines that need improvement i.e.
rates; plans are in place or will be implemented to improve results.
It’s important to note that we achieved rate increases of approximately 4% on North America business with the largest increase found in workers’ compensation and property.
These rate increases in the E&amp;S and specialty segments along with some economic growth by our customers is a key factors in our premium growth.
Within our product line leadership we made several changes.
We withdrew from railroad third-party and taxing lines of business earlier this year.
These lines have not shown progress on corrective actions and therefore we decided to stop running this business.
During the fourth quarter call we mentioned moving a number of underwriters from the product line group to regional roles to be closer to our agents and brokers.
This has reduced (inaudible) added to our frontline underwriting expertise and is producing additional premium as well as adding to the efficiency mentioned earlier in the E&amp;S segment.
All of our product line leaders and managers have been busy with the Alterra transition and our plans have been announced.
Richie will speak more to the Alterra deals in his comments.
Richie? Thanks Mike good morning everybody.
I will start off with a few comments about Markel International’s first quarter and then give an update on the Alterra integration.
Markel International had a nice start to 2013; gross written premiums increased 7% to 296 million.
Areas of growth included our Specialty and Professional Liability division as well as our Singapore and Netherlands branches.
First quarter pricing trends were largely in line with recent quarter’s modest price increases.
International achieved an overall average price increase of almost 3% in the first quarter.
Despite price increases in certain areas and many areas of the market things remain competitive.
Particularly in the professional liability retail and equine divisions.
International combined ratio for the first quarter of 2013 was a 92%.
This compares to 97% in the first quarter of 2012 and remember that the first quarter of 2012 included approximately three points for the adoption of the DAC accounting standard.
The 2013 results have benefited from a slightly lower current accident year loss ratio very low catastrophe losses in the quarter and 22 million of prior year favourable developments across a variety of programs.
Finally I would like to recognize the Markel International folks for going live with their multi-year initiative to replace their core underwriting systems.
They went live on the new system in April and whilst still in the early stages with the systems things are going well.
There is still plenty of work to do to fully embed and take advantage of this system but this is an important milestone in accomplishment for the entire International team.
Moving to Alterra give an update on our acquisition since our initial announcement of the deal on December 19th this has been a constant area of intense focus for countless Markel and Alterra associates want to welcome the Alterra associates to our Markel family and want to thank all Alterra and Markel associates for their tireless work over the last four months as we’ve all prepared for close and made progress on the integration.
It really is a testament to the bench strength at Markel and Alterra that we could work as hard as we have on the integration over the past four months and still produce great results in the first quarter.
The integration team has done an excellent job getting us ready for the day one close.
We’ve necessarily been focused on day one activity.
Just an example would include large item like defining and communicating new reporting lines client communication website updates we have been combining certain reinsurance protection and we have been working on our combined branding strategy.
We’ve also been focused on what you would likely consider more administrative but also critically important items like email addresses systems access bank and trust account access.
We arrive at the close date having made excellent progress in all areas.
We are now moving our attention to longer term initiative and making sure we have a smooth transition for our clients and our new associates.
Our message for both clients and our associates is stay enhanced business as usual.
Over the next several quarters we will continue to more tightly integrate the two newly created divisions of global insurance and global reinsurance as well as the business lines that are going to be merged into our excess and surplus and Markel International divisions.
Similar activities are obviously taking place across all support areas.
As of today’s close I’d sum up our progress is very good but with lots of heavy lifting to do to achieve our goals for the combined operations of the new Markel.
Now I would like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
Good morning again.
As all this morning is covered three items item one the first quarter investment results and our public security portfolio.
Item two the start of the year from (inaudible) operations; and item three our perspective plan for our new expanded investment portfolio we now manage as a result of the Alterra acquisition.
Item one the year is off to a flying start and our equity and fixed income portfolios we have a total returns of 13.1% and 0.5% respectively.
The total return for the portfolio was 3.5% and I am very happy with those results.
While any one quarter is essentially leading the way in with those returns were earned means a great deal.
In our equity portfolio we continue to own a set of high quality global successful company.
In many cases the dividend yields comfortably exceed what we can earn on appropriate fixed income alternatives.
We also continue our longstanding process of step by step measure and selective additions to the equity portfolio.
In our fixed income operations we continue to maintain the portfolio of the highest credit quality that we can find and we continue to let the duration roll in.
In the repeat statement from previous quarters and now year we believe that interest rates are too low and the risks of longer-term fixed income commitments outweigh the rewards.
As such we continue to build the portfolio that increasingly resembles cash.
Stay tuned for our plans on what we will do with the cash.
On March 31 equities represented 65% of our shareholders' equity up from 52% at year end.
It’s worth pointing out to our new and longstanding shareholders that our approach in managing our equity portfolio remains quite tax efficient.
With low turnover and stocks to go up over time we now sit on an unrealized gain of $1.3 billion.
We've provided for the taxes in our financial statement but those taxes remain deferred until such time as we actually sell the securities and realize the gain.
It's worth remembering that at the 35% tax rate the deferred tax associated with this gain would be roughly $450 million.
I know that you all love hearing about accounting just as much I love talking about it but I think it's worth taking a minute to engage in a little thought experiment on this topic.
Imagine if our balance sheet was only comprised of the unrealized gains in the equity investment portfolio in that case we would have an asset of $1.3 billion on the left hand side of the balance sheet and a liability of $450 million for future taxes and equity capital of $850 million on the right hand side.
The net effect of this dynamic is that we've got the entire $1.3 billion working for us as shareholders on a reported equity capital base of $850 million.
This is incredibly tax efficient and helps our recorded return on equity over time.
Over the decade this component of our balance sheet and capital has grown larger and larger and is a meaningful contributor to total shareholder returns at Markel and not a common feature in the insurance world.
I'm glad to report that those balances continue to grow during the first quarter by following the same discipline we've used to build it for decades.
On to item two Markel Ventures operations also performed very well during the first quarter of 2013.
Our other revenues of $172 million that you see in the income statement are largely those of the Ventures companies.
Those revenues rose 55% compared to the last year.
Other expenses of [$152 million] up 52% from a year ago.
Back to accounting again those expenses include non-cash amortization and purchase accounting metrics that are separate and distinct from the ongoing operational performance of the Markel Ventures Company.
As such we use EBITDA in our internal review and management of those operations.
As Anne noted earlier EBITDA more than doubled to $19.4 million in the first quarter compared to $9.4 million in the previous year.
A reconciliation of EBITDA to GAAP net income is available on our website.
Item 3 the biggest single challenge and opportunity on the asset side of the balance sheet this time is the future investment and capital allocation decisions that we will make with our growing cash balances which are now augmented by the addition of investment balances from Alterra.
We will invest the money in the same way as we invested the assets of Markel over the years.
Specifically on the fixed income side we will continue to focus on high credit quality and maintaining the duration that is shorter than our natural position of matching the duration of the insurance liabilities through our bond portfolio.
We will continue to do this until interest rates are higher than they are today and that we feel we're being paid appropriately to accept the risk of longer-term commitments.
While this penalizes current investment income this doesn’t penalize as very much at today’s low rates of interest across the curve.
On the equity side these are vibrant and profitable insurance business.
We have a strong balance sheet and plenty of cash.
Our constraint is signing appropriate ideas and protecting and preserving the balance sheet.
For now we will continue to methodically invest in many of the same securities we already [earned].
Prices are still reasonable in many cases and we will pick up investment yield from the dividends as we go.
Given our new circumstances we will have a lot of dry powder and we will look to deploy that more appropriately as opportunities present themselves.
I cannot predict when the general environment will produce an opportunity but I am confident that it will.
As many people say about the weather wherever they live if you don’t like it wait 5 minutes and it will change.
We are in a unique and what I think is a fantastic position and that we have capital to deploy in what could be a rapidly changing environment.
Rest assured that the same disciplines and thought processes we used for decades to make those decisions remain implied.
I am optimistic about our opportunities to make positive capital allocation decisions in the coming years as low as the ultimate results from Markel shareholders.
As we begin this new era at Markel and took a moment this morning to look at our first annual report and to remind myself of what this team has accomplished for you in the years since we went public in 1986.
Immediately following the public offerings we had shareholders' equity of about $16 million and a total investment portfolio of approximately $13 million.
We [built] the process of reinvesting our earnings and making sound capital allocation decision for a long time and I think it’s fair to say the results should speak for themselves.
To add one more note on a sense of perspective the comprehensive income of in the first quarter of 2013 of $257 million exceeded our entire cumulative earnings during our first decade as a public company.
I know that analysts report on Markel really address comprehensive income and their estimates and discussions about it but the comprehensive income as what we as shareholders ultimately receive as owners of this business.
As such it’s what we focused on as the stewards of this company.
It's undeniable that we face the challenge as we begin to integrate the Opera operations into Markel and reinvest our new larger basic capital.
The good news is (inaudible) and we are excited and optimistic about doing it again now and into the future.
With that I would like to go ahead and open up the floor for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of John Fox with Fenimore Asset Management.
Please proceed with your question.
I have a few questions first to Tom Gayner you mentioned the healthcare portfolio do you have a sense of how long it will take to make that look more like a Markel portfolio? Yes lot of that really is going to be optimistically driven John.
So in the pricing environment that we are operating in today it’s going to be pretty methodical and just step by step.
If market opportunities present themselves we will act expeditiously but I don't have a brief to mention for you.
Okay.
And Tom where we take the equities that the stock portfolio as a percentage of Markel shareholder equity? Look at the end of the quarter we were at 65% right and that obviously come goes down like adding a bunch of cash and a fair capital.
My goal would be to get that back to that sort of ratio and in fact go beyond that as we see good opportunities to do so but we will let it go down before we start to rebuild.
Okay and then I think these other two questions are for Mike.
And by the way before we you start after Mike’s question do you have any yeah really good idea coming me later.
Okay I will.
Mike a number of insurance companies have talked about you know organic price increases in the first quarter; I wanted to have a perspective on your business do you see kind of a natural increase in prices and what that number might be? Well as we said we are seeing something in the range of 4% in North America now with a little more in workers’ comp and property and right now I think that's just continuing.
I don't see it going up a lot from here and I don't see it going down but right now we are just kind of found the same kind of trend.
Okay.
And Rich you mentioned three in international still kind of low single digit? Yeah.
I think its amazing you know we talked about the different markets but there tends to be a lot of similarity in terms of how they move so 3% over there 4% here is consistent.
Right.
Okay and then now the results these are terrific results for the first quarter but you know Specialty Admitted line is not terrific and I am just wondering your thoughts on that are you looking at taking different actions or there seems to be an outlier of the three segments at this point? Well a couple of things are going on there John one in the quarter about 66% of the revenue was specialty is coming from three new businesses FirstComp THOMCO and the Hagerty business and all of those businesses are being subjected to our conservative reserving practices for a period of time and in addition the expense ratio for THOMCO and for Hagerty in the first quarter is high because of things that are going on there; we frontloaded a lot of expenses for Hagerty.
We run $30 something million of business but we only earned about $4 million of investment booking of contingencies and other things that drive that expense ratio way up in the first quarter and that will trend down during the course of the year.
The expense ratio for the Specialty excluding that is 38.6% so everybody else is moving in the right direction and FirstComp has made great strides in their expense ratio and in their loss ratio they are following the trend that we set in place for them when we acquired them in late 2010.
So there are a couple of lines of business in the Specialty segment that are not performing the way we would like them to do and we are taking action on those.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Are you going to be putting out any I guess proforma information as far as working the Alterra numbers into new presentation; it’s hard to update the model when we don't know where all the numbers are going I guess? Yeah Jay we will be filing an 8-K but it will probably be 10 weeks from now.
Okay.
That’s fine.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
A couple of numbers questions to start out with; you provided the split of proportion of the Markel Ventures revenues in the other revenues.
Could you give us the portion of the expenses that are in the other expenses lines and where is that with that? Yeah while Anne looks for those numbers I'll give you the total other revenues of it she has the exact Markel’s figures…..
Yeah right so Markel Ventures related revenues were $162 million.
The associated expenses were about $145 million.
$145 million thank you.
A second question…..
And like Mark that includes the non-cash expenses.
EBITDA on that.
Right of course.
The second question did you have any particular on a catastrotrophe losses in the quarter.
I didn’t see any references and I could think of any but just thought that if there were any you could highlight them.
Nothing of significance Mark and also obviously we in the (inaudible) we had some take downs actually on Sandy in the quarter.
So in a sense we had a negative on (inaudible).
Alright and then somebody had mentioned in their opening remarks I think it was you Richie the integration of kind of combined reinsurance platform to cover the combined entities.
Is there anything you can share with respect to that in terms of how that’s going to affect the ratio of gross to net premiums? Obviously it's my job to figure how many dollars of premiums do they add in but I would like to at least start with the ratio if you could? Sure Mark what I think I could tell you this year is we are starting to look at programs and how we can combine them.
I think the first step quite honestly is actually to bring them together and we are not so much focused on moving retention as we are just kind of getting to fewer programs right now.
So you know I would tell you that for 2013 if you sort of took the mix of our retention and Alterra’s retention that’s probably where we will end up whatever that is in the middle and I don’t have that number in hand.
And after we kind of get through this initial phase during 2013 next year we’ll start looking critically at those retention levels and my assumption would be we start bringing those up some.
But this year to do no harm right now.
We just wanted to start putting things together.
The next question comes from the line of Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Please proceed with your question.
How was the general E&amp;S environment; are you seeing much flow over from the standard market?  I think we are seeing some Adam it's hard to measure.
We like to think that a lot of our growth has come from the fact that we’ve done a much better job articulating to our producers; exactly what we want is also a result of the last couple of years of upgrading our coverages and our forms.
We’ve been a lot more active with our brokers in terms of been out knocking on doors asking for the business and so I think that’s drawing a lot of it as well.
It's hard to put a number on of what we are seeing roll over from standard market I think we are seeing some of that.
And then as far as for the overall company your accident year loss ratio excluding cats was down by roughly 200 basis points how much of that is due to white weather?  Sorry can you repeat that? How much of that is due to just weather being pretty [lighter] in winter?  It's going to be a little bit of that.
There is no question first quarter was a very light for weather but also we were seeing the impact of modest price increases that we’ve gotten over the last couple of years; that’s starting to help us the loss ratio as well.
It’s probably it's a mix of the two.
Okay.
And then as far as what do you think on the loss trends in workers comp and I guess I keep distinguish California versus non-California would be helpful?  Well the loss ratio obviously improving at first comp but keep in mind as we said on other calls FirstComp has been restructuring their business and moving a lot more toward non-California business and more attracted states so I don’t have the numbers right in front of me but the California comp business is down substantially from a couple of years ago and the trends not only are they loss trends but they are expense trends moving absolutely in the right direction they are managing their business just as we ask them to.
The only thing I’d to add to that as you can expect I mean the trends in work comp sort of near of what is going on in medical so it’s higher than the overall economy and California as it is have always been higher than the rest for the country but I don’t think we are seeing anything crazy there I think its sort of continuation of what’s been obtained.
Okay and then finally if you had a pretty good press release and I know release isn’t going to reserve release but they are going to jump around but was there any one or two items driving that release? The release was predominantly on casualty lines but it was spread across several years.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Doug Mewhirter with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
First Rich as you said the (inaudible) numbers questions.
I know the expense ratio in the lending market division had quite an improvement below 40% first time in a while is there anything there with any particular credits or you are just more (inaudible) better scale? No you know obviously we have the DAC adjustment in the first quarter of last year and so it’s probably not as dramatic as maybe it appears on the surface.
I think you are right that the underlying trend is down some and I think it’s primarily more volume you know we are getting more volume and we are able to spread our fixed costs a little further.
So good news.
Yeah it’s definitely.
And Tom you had a pretty comprehensive overview of how you are going to bring Alterra’s portfolio around.
Is there going to be any particular I guess for lack of a better term liquidation events in advance of that where you definitely overweighed Alterra’s cash just because you would rather get something more stable to bring over Markel or would be more you would take the portfolio and move I guess as you find opportunities to up your investments on the Markel side you will liquidate the Alterra’s investments on a case by case basis? Yeah the good news is that the vast majority of the Alterra investment portfolio is just fine.
It’s high quality fixed income investments and those will largely remain in place and that's a pretty smooth integration process.
They did pursue things in the realm of alternative investments and we've already I mean they have been very cooperative and helpful in terms of liquidating some of that ahead of the closing that process will continue and it will take some time as the half life associated with that and frankly this time next year there will be some of that.
But that is largely an independent process compared to where we are deploying capital and cash.
I'm hard pressed to imagine the scenario where we want to invest where we can right now so we can go about whatever changes we are making on Alterra in a very methodical and orderly way and we've got plenty of cash to fund investment ideas as they happen and they are two distinct things.
Our next question comes from the line of Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
Just I guess a quick question Tom you spent a lot of time on the Alterra portfolio asset side but maybe can you give us an update on how you are thinking about reserves for Alterra and now that I guess you have a little bit more time to take a look at them and maybe how you know if there's any need to bring them up to the Markel standards given sort of you know the way you guys approach reserve? Yeah what I'd say there is when we did our due diligence at Alterra we felt comfortable with the reserve levels that there was a redundancy probably not at the same level as our reserving standard but solid reserve and that was very reassuring when we got through the due diligence.
Obviously we've been spending a lot of time with the Alterra folks over the last four months and we haven't seen anything that would change our opinion of what we saw the due diligence and you know similar to other acquisitions that we've done in the past it will be a you know Tom talked about methodical process it will be a methodical process to bring them into line with Markel’s reserve and standards as we go forward.
And probably the best thing I would tell you in terms of purchase adjustments if you will is to look at the performance that were part of our debt issuance back in March.
That would give you an idea of what we are talking about or thinking about doing and I think that's pretty much in line with where our thinking is today.
Okay I'll take a look at those documents.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gayner it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to you for any concluding remarks.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you for joining us.
We look forward to seeing you all soon.
Take care.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner; President and CIO.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Tom Gayner and along with my colleagues Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt we welcome you to the Markel Corporation’s second quarter 2013 conference call.
Before we get started we are required to remind you of the Safe Harbor provision.
So here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the caption Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and cautionary statements in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures on the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
We are very excited to share our report card from the first half from Markel or as I like to call it Markel 3.0 for the first half of 2013.
The headlines of the first half is that we enjoyed positive comprehensive income during the first half of 2013.
The components driving that result includes underwriting profitability and our insurance businesses organic growth in our premium volumes as well as the growth derived from acquisitions positive investment returns from our portfolio operating profitability in our Markel ventures businesses and organic growth in those operations as well as the growth from acquisition.
Those statements are true even after factoring in the transactional expenses incurred to put Markel 3.0 on the field.
We could not be happier with our prospects and the long-term opportunity embedded in this company.
We’ve got multiple cylinders to power the economic engine and this reports shows forward progress and the promise of how it should work in the future.
While this report contains a lot of moving pieces and discrete items we will attempt to provide as much priority as we can to run each of them and provide you with the reasons as to why we are so excited about our future.
We hope you agree and we look forward to the thoughtful questions from our fellow owners of this firm as well as the collections from those who buy and sell the stock.
With that as prologue Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
We look to say we had a very busy quarter with major activities focused on our May 1 2013 acquisition of Alterra.
The transaction was valued at $3.3 billion including $2.3 billion of Markel common stock and other equity considerations and $1 billion of cash.
The transaction resulted in approximately $560 million of goodwill and the intangible assets.
At the May 1 2013 transaction date all of our assets and liabilities including identifiable intangible assets were set fair value with the excess of transaction consideration ever fair value allocated to goodwill.
The three months significant adjustments were to investments license annuity benefits and unpaid loses in LAE reserves.
At acquisition the amortized cost basis as a fixed maturity portfolio was reset in fair value and the difference between the estimated per value and the par value of the securities with $552 million.
So we also fair value adjustments to life and annuity benefit reserve of $330 million and to unpaid losses in LAE reserves of $147 million.
You can find details on these adjustments in footnote 3 of our Form 10-Q.
The integration process is in full swing and we are just beginning to see the benefits of our enhanced sale.
Despite significant merger and acquisition costs in the period we met our goal of generating underwriting process on a consolidated basis for the first six months of 2013.
The legacy Markel operations had strong performance and the legacy operations performed within expectation.
Our total operating revenues grew 30% to $1.9 billion in 2013 from $1.4 billion in 2012.
The increase is due to a 27% increase in revenue from our insurance operations which includes $225 million from the Alterra segment.
And a 64% increase in revenue from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results for the first six months of 2013 gross written premiums of $1.8 billion which is an increase of 42% as compared to 2012.
The increase in 2013 was primarily due to the inclusion of $342 million of gross written premium from the Alterra segment from May 1 2013.
As well as higher gross premium volume in the Specialty Admitted in Excess and Surplus Lines segment.
The increase in Specialty Admitted is driven by premiums from the Hagerty and THOMCO businesses.
Within the Excess and Surplus Lines segment the increase is due in part to the impact of more favorable rates and improving economic conditions.
Net written premiums for 2013 were approximately $1.6 billion up 39% to the prior year for the same reasons I just mentioned.
Net retention was down in the first six months of 2013 at 86% compared to 89% in 2012.
The decrease in net retention is due to the inclusion of premiums written by Alterra from May 1 2013.
Net retention in the Alterra segment for the period was 74%.
Excluding premiums written by Alterra consolidated net retention would have been flat over the period.
Earned premiums increased 29%.
The increase in 2013 was primarily due to the inclusion of $225 million of earned premium from the Alterra segment from May 1 2013 as well as higher earned premium volume in the Specialty Admitted and Excess and Surplus Lines segments.
The increase in Specialty Admitted is due to earned premiums from the Hagerty and THOMCO businesses.
Our combined ratio was 98% for the first six months of 2013 as compared to 93% in 2012.
The increase in the combined ratio for the quarter was driven by a higher current accident year loss ratio and less favorable development on prior year loss reserve compared to the same periods in 2012.
The results were also impacted by the Alterra segment which added 8 points to the year-to-date combined ratio primarily driven by $62 million of merger and acquisition costs and $25 million of statutory losses.
Favorable redundancies on prior year loss reserve increased to $204 million or 15 points of favorable development compared to $191 million or 18 points of favorable development in 2012.
The expense ratio for 2012 was unfavorably impacted by the perspective adoption of the new DAC accounting standards which increased our expenses by $35 million or 3 points on the 2012 combined ratio.
Next I will discuss the results of Markel Ventures.
In the first six months of 2013 revenue from Markel Ventures were $314 million compared to $191 million in 2012.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was $11 million in 2013 compared to $400 000 in 2012.
EBITDA was $40 million in 2013 compared to $19 million in 2012.
Revenues net income to shareholders and EBITDA from Markel Ventures increased in the first six months of 2013 compared to the same period of 2012 primarily as a result of more favorable results at AMF Bakery Systems and our acquisitions of Havco and Reading Bakery Systems in 2012.
Turning to our investment results next; investment income was flat in 2013 and just under $143 million.
Net investment income for 2013 included $17 million of investment income attributable to Alterra which was net of $21 million in amortization expense from adjusting Alterra’s fixed maturity securities to a new amortized cost basis at the Acquisition Date.
Net investment income also included favorable changes in the fair value of our credit default swap of $7 million as compared to $12 million in 2012.
Excluding the impact of Alterra and the credit default swap net investment income for the first six months of 2013 decreased compared to 2012 due in part to a decrease in our fixed maturities and an increase in our cash and cash equivalents.
Net realized investment gains for 2013 were $30 million compared to $20 million in 2012.
Included in that realized gains were $5 million of other-than-temporary impairments as compared to $1 million in 2012.
Tom will go into further details on investments in Markel Ventures in his comments.
Looking on our total results for the six months the effective tax rate was 28% in 2013 compared to an effective tax rate of 23% in 2012.
The increase is primarily due to the impact of including the operations of Alterra and the company’s effective tax rate beginning an acquisition and anticipating a smaller tax benefit related to tax-exempt investment income as a result of projecting higher per-tax income for 2013 than in 2012.
We reported net income to shareholders of $170 million compared to $147 million in 2012.
Book value per share increased to approximately 12% to $452 per share at June 30 2013 from $404 per share at year-end.
The increase is primarily due to equity issued in connection with the acquisition of Alterra and $109 million of comprehensive income to shareholders.
Finally I’ll make a couple of comments on the cash flows and balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $240 million for the six months ended June 30 2013 as compared to $105 million for the same period of 2012.
The increase was driven by higher cash flows from underwriting activities at Markel Ventures.
The increase in cash flows from underwriting activities is primarily a result of the acquisition of Alterra which added $38 million in the period and higher premium volume primarily in our Specialty Admitted and Excess and Surplus Lines segments.
Higher cash flows from Markel Ventures were driven by increases at AMF Bakery Systems and our acquisitions of Havco and Reading Bakery Systems in 2012.
Invested assets at the holding company were $1.1 billion at June 30 2013 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31 2012.
The decrease in invested assets is primarily the result of cash paid for the Alterra acquisitions partially offset by a net increase in debt.
At this point I would like to turn it over to Mike to further discuss operations.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
The result for the second quarter of 2013 for legacy Markel in North America was slightly better than the first quarter of 2013.
Gross written premiums for North America increased 28.9% for the quarter and are up 25% for the first six months of 2013.
The combined ratios improved as well.
The E&amp;S segment had another excellent quarter with gross written premiums increasing 20% year-over-year compared to the second quarter of 2012 and 15% year-to-date compared to the first six months of 2012.
For the third consecutive quarter all five regions of the E&amp;S segment grew their volumes.
The E&amp;S segment’s combined ratio for the second quarter was 76.9% an improvement of 9.8 points from the same period of 2012.
The combined ratio for the first six months was 77.2% an improvement of 14.4 points compared to 2012.
Prior year losses were favorable due to higher takedowns consistent with Markel’s historical practices.
The effective results reflect our continued efforts to improve efficiency and service to our agents and brokers.
It also reflects our ongoing marketing initiatives designed to better inform our agents and brokers about our underwriting appetide and as a result (inaudible) ratio has increased.
The Specialty Admitted segment’s gross written premium increased 41% year-over-year for the second quarter compared to 2012 and 39% for the first six months compared to 2012.
This increase as Anne mentioned was driven by the THOMCO and Hagerty lines of business.
Second quarter combined ratio for the Specialty segment was 106% or 3.4 points higher than the same period in 2012.
This increase is the result of higher expenses on the Hagerty and THOMCO business which is a lagging earned premium.
Excluding Hagerty and THOMCO the expense ratio would have been five points lower for the quarter.
The combined ratio for the first six months was 107% slightly lower than the same period in 2012.
During the quarter we implemented a plan to exit certain unprofitable lines of business and non-renewed specific accounts within lines that we will continue to underwrite.
This action is the result of an in-depth review that we discussed in our first quarter comments.
We fully expect these actions will improve our underwriting results going forward to discuss the division.
I’d also like to point out that our FirstComp business continues to grow and the results were improving according to our original long-term plans.
Under Gerry Albanese’s leadership our product line leadership grew as we have got in the process of integrating Alterra’s underwriting operations into Markel.
Leaders for wholesale property or the account property professional liability inland marine and large account casualty have been announced.
In addition the senior underwriting teams for all of these lines of business have been meeting and working together to develop and implement a consistent and coordinative approach to our business going forward.
With regards to the current rate environment overall rate increases continue as getting paid averaging about 4% across all lines of business.
I’d like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank our Markel associates and all the former Alterra associates for their efforts during the integration process.
I’m very confident in saying that we are well on our way to being one Markel.
I’ll turn the call over to Richie Whitt for his comments.
Thanks Mike good morning everyone.
I will start my comments with Markel International’s first half results and then give an update on the Alterra acquisition.
Markel International had a good first half of 2013.
Gross written premiums increased about 2% to $526 million.
Areas of growth included our specialty book as well as our Singapore and Netherlands branch offices.
Second quarter pricing trends were largely in line with recent quarters modest price increases.
Despite some price increases however in many areas the market remains competitive rather it was particularly so in the cat property reinsurance professional liability retail and equine areas.
Property tax reinsurance rates began to fall in the second quarter as additional competition including ILS markets impacted rates.
Florida rates were up anywhere from 10% to 25% at June 1 renewal and as a result Markel International and legacy Alterra reduced writings of Florida business at 6/1/2013.
International combined ratio for the first six months of 2013 was a 90%.
This compared to 86% in the first three months of 2012 the increase was primarily due to less favorable loss reserve development in 2013.
Both years benefitted from relatively light catastrophe losses.
Now I’d like to give an update on our acquisition of Alterra as Anne said we close the deal on May 1 and everyone remains focused on a smooth transition and realizing the potential of the new Markel.
We continue to make good progress bringing the two organizations together.
We successfully combined our New York Richmond and London offices at this point.
We are also rebranding all operations at Markel and hope to have this effort completed in all major markets before the end of the year.
We’ve kicked off our budgeting and planning process for 2014.
This process is going to give all operations both new and old the opportunity to work together to layout a strategy for 2014 and beyond.
We’ve already had several meetings and more scheduled to provide opportunities for our people to work together to capitalize on our now expanded capabilities.
While we have made tremendous strides in a very short period of time we still have some work to do with our systems in our back office processes in order to fully integrate all elements of legacy Alterra operations into our business model.
As such we are managing and reporting the results of legacy Alterra operations which include U.S.
insurance Alterra Lloyd's global insurance and global reinsurance at our Alterra segments and expect to continue to do this through the remainder of the year.
We have several initiatives in place to make the changes in systems and processes which are required in order to implement a new segment reporting structure for the first quarter of 2014.
You are also going to note that we have included the legacy Alterra life and annuity book which is in runoff in our other discontinued line segments.
We will continue to make good progress on the integration despite modest cat losses in the second quarter Alterra legacy operations are performing as expected through the first half of the year.
With that I would like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
There are three things I hope to cover this morning.
Item one from the past investment results in our public securities portfolio; item two the first half results of Markel Ventures; and item three an update on our initial actions for the investments that we added as a result of the Alterra acquisition.
As to item one I am very pleased with our results through the first half.
In our equity and fixed income portfolio we earned total returns of 16.7% a negative 1% respectively.
The total return for the portfolio was 2.5%.
The equity results speak for themselves and I am very happy with them.
While equity returns always have them and always will be volatile we’ve earned a double digit return on our equity portfolio for the last 24 years of roughly 200 basis points advantage compared to the S&amp;P 500 Index.
No steroids were used to achieve this result.
In addition to the out performance of the S&amp;P 500 equity index each returns produced roughly 450 basis points advantage compared to the Barclays Aggregate Fixed Income Index.
We have added value both through our allocation decision to own equity as opposed to fixed income alternative and we have added value in our specific equity selection.
We have also been very cost efficient and kept those funds working for the benefit of our shareholders with low portfolio turnover.
In our equity portfolio the past indication for the last several years we continue to predominantly earn a set of high quality global successful company.
In many cases the dividend yields comfortably exceed what we can earn on the appropriate fixed income alternative.
We also continued our long standing process of step by step measure and selective addition to the equity portfolio through the first half.
In our fixed income portfolio we continue to maintain a portfolio of the highest credit quality that we confine and we continue to let the duration roll in.
Last quarter I repeated our belief that we remain of the opinion that interest rates were too less and it’s the risk of longer term fixed income commitments outweighs the rewards.
During the second quarter interest rates did indeed begin to move upwards a little bit and we minimized the damage that would otherwise have occurred with our short duration stands.
The portfolio assets we added from the Alterra acquisition for longer duration and the combination moved our duration out approximately 1 year from approximately 3.5 years 4.5 years.
We will continue to let that number roll in a bit and we will move it out only when interest rates and perspective returns look better to us than they do now.
The net of all this is that our fixed income portfolio could go to a Halloween party dressed as catch and pull it of.
Halloween can be scary and I’m sacred at what could happen in interest rates.
So we’ll continue to be cautious and deliberate as we redeploy the portfolio.
At June 30 equities represented 44% of our shareholders equity compared to 62% at year-end.
That decrease in percentage comes solely from the map of adding in the Alterra balance sheet.
We invested in equity during the first half the investment returns was strongly positive and the value of the fixed income portfolio went down due to the rise in interest rates.
The addition of the Alterra portfolio was a sluggish de facto of reallocation of investment allocations and it is appropriate for you to assume that we will methodically and opportunistically guide the equity investment percentage back up for the historical levels over time.
On slide number 2 Markel Ventures operations also performed very well during the first half.
Our other revenues of $330 million in income statement are largely those of the Ventures company as revenue were 50% compared to last year.
Other expenses were $293 million up 47% from a year ago.
Now those expenses include non-cash amortization and purchase accounting entries that are separate and distinct from the ongoing operational performance of the Markel Ventures company.
As such these EBITDA and our internal review management of incorporation and EBITDA more than doubled at $40 million in the first half compared to $19 million in the previous year.
A reconciliation of EBITDA to GAAP net income is available on our website (inaudible).
We are very happy with the underlying economic performance of our Markel Insurance Company.
While the overall business environment remained extremely competitive and full of challenges.
The managers and teams of Markel Insurance Company are doing a first grade job of building our businesses.
They operate with the Markel style just like our insurance operations and the focus on market leadership excellence innovations and having fun while doing so is paying off.
We expect to continue to add the Markel Ventures over the long-term.
Item 3 as we look to date roughly 70 days ago when we close the Alterra transaction the biggest single challenge and opportunity on the asset side of the development is the future investment in capital allocation decisions that we will make with the (inaudible) player as well as the cash we can generated by our (inaudible).
We’ll invest the money in the same way we’ve invested in the opportunity over the years specifically on the fixed income side we’ll continue to focus on high credit quality and maintaining the duration that a shorter than our national position of matching duration of the insurance liability for our bond portfolio.
We will continue to do this until interest rates are higher than they are today and we feel that we are being paid appropriately to accept the risks as longer term commitments.
On the equity side we have a vibrant and profitable insurance place.
We have a strong balance sheet and plenty of cash.
Our constraint is finding appropriate idea and protecting and preserve it in balance sheet.
For now we will continue to methodically invest in many of the same securities that we are already in.
Prices are still reasonable in many cases and we will pick up investments yield from the dividend it self.
Given the position of Markel 3.0 we have a lot of dry powder and we look to deploy that aggressively as opportunities present themselves.
We’re in an unique and what I think is a fantastic position and we are capital deployed and what to be a rapidly changing environment.
Rest assured is the same discipline as thought processes we used for decades to make these decisions for Markel to remain in place.
I am optimistic about our opportunities to make positive capital allocation decision in the coming years as well as the ultimate results from Markel shareholders.
I know that analyst report for Markel really is a comprehensive income in their estimates and discussions about it but comprehensive income is what we as shareholders ultimately receive (inaudible).
As such that is what we focus on the issue with this company.
I am pleased to report positive comprehensive income for the first half of 2013 despite the transition expenses and we are optimistic about our opportunities going forward.
With that I’d like to open the floor for questions.
Open up the floor? Thank you sir.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Several questions I guess the first in the Specialty Admitted area you had mentioned that there is some lines that you were exiting I am wondering if you can give us a sense of how big they are as we go forward as how the meaningful impact on revenue growth there.
There are several lines.
Jay it’s Mike.
There are several lines.
None of them among themselves are significant.
I think over a 12-month period you could see possibly a $40 million reduction there in those lines of business in total all lines included.
Got it.
That’s very helpful.
And then I guess on the E&amp;S side the premium growth accelerated pretty noticeably from the first quarter.
In the Q1 call you mentioned pricing economy.
From the pricing standpoint it didn’t sound like the price increases accelerated that all and the economic growth doesn’t seem terribly robust.
I’m wondering kind of really what’s behind that acceleration.
It’s pretty simply Jay.
We expect the last few years refreshing our product improving our service to our agents.
We are well past the one top mark initiative that we had for the E&amp;S operations and quite frankly our relationships and our efficiency and our proven products and our service to our larger wholesale brokers and really all of our wholesale brokers is paying off significant organic growth this organic growth.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah good morning.
A couple of questions.
Starting the investment portfolio there is the asset adjustment there and a portion of that I guess is I’m understanding the footnote is going to be amortized back through investment income.
Can you just talk through the mechanics of that a little bit and maybe give some sense of from a big picture standpoint how long of a time this will kind of be a drag during [offset] against the investment income line? Yeah Mark basically you have to add the acquisition date take the portfolio to fair market value and then over the life of the assets you amortize it back down to par.
So it will be amortizing over the course of the duration of the portfolios.
So call it 4.5 years to 5 years.
Yeah this Mark this is Richie.
If you think about it what you’ve basically done is converted the Alterra portfolio.
You had a book yield coming through the P&amp;L.
Now you have the effective yield coming through the P&amp;L with the amortization of that premium.
And again just to kind of clarify slightly with the numbers.
The mark on that adjustment was $552 million and it’s $552 million that’s being amortized over whatever the duration would be.
And then I guess I would presume that to the extent that Tom decided to sell some of those that would accelerate that more quickly? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then I guess likewise I would suppose that that won’t be a terribly straight line oriented amortization.
It’s going to depend – apart from the sales it’s going to be a weighted duration.
So some of that may stay with us for well beyond 4.5 years.
That’s a fair statement.
It’s little hard to predict.
Right.
Okay.
That’s my first question.
My second question more for Tom also staying on the investment portfolio.
Is the investment income earnings in the quarter setting aside these amortizations and the additions of the Alterra portion.
It seems like the legacy Markel portion was relatively lower.
Were you more oriented into cash just an anticipation of the deal.
Was there some aspect of the positioning that would have made the core of the legacy run rate lower than unlike would have expected otherwise? I mean we were building cash in expectation of the transaction but also have been building cash by rolling down the duration curve.
So that’s just a math of what interest rates are short end of the curve.
Okay you certainly did that.
The second question related to the portfolio repositioning.
I mean I have been watching you in action for many years I know that you will do this opportunistically and kind of take the opportunity as the market allows.
But you have a general timeline in terms of the assets classes that came over from Alterra that may not be completely consistent with things that you historically owned in terms of recognizing any gains or losses there or would you more plan to just what that mature off and then redirect the proceeds.
I would tell you in the context in sort of a 80:20 rule.
80% of it things that we are comfortable just sort of letting them roll off and 20% we are taking and will continue to take some more immediate actions but in the 80:20 rule context it can roll off appropriately.
Okay.
All right.
I guess that is my last question on the investment portfolio.
One other question kind of more operationally.
In one of the notes with respect to the Specialty Admitted business just been unclear about this impact of the (inaudible) I said there was $62 million that I wasn’t clear whether that related to just Hagerty premiums in the quarter whether that was Hagerty THOMCO and any other acquisition premiums in the quarter within the Specialty Admitted business? It’s primarily on Hagerty.
Okay.
I will stop there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Adam Klauber from William Blair.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Couple of different questions.
Specialty Admitted are the combined ratio support THOMCO and FirstComp still running above the average of the segment and are they improving from what they were last year? Yeah they both are but keep in mind that we also continue to build the margin and safety and all of those lines of business.
Hagerty THOMCO and FirstComp.
Hagerty I mean that’s easy.
THOMCO has some extra expenses in it.
The FirstComp business as I said earlier on the call is absolutely trimmed these exactly according to plans.
So we feel very good about the actions they have taken with regards to their expense ratio with regard to geography in which they claim it.
In August they are allowing less California business so we feel good about that plan.
Again overall the specialty segment we’ve taken our newly hard look if all products that we have and all of the programs that we have in specialty and the plan that we put in place and initiate it beginning in the second quarter is that very specific plan targeted to improve the overall profitability in specialty.
So is FirstComp today running is the margin better today than it was a year ago or is it still running pretty high combined.
Yes it’s been.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
As you take a look at the Alterra business which you’ve been doing but it sounds like you’re still looking at the positioning.
Do you think that business will be trimmed down over the next year or so compared to what it was last year? That’s hard to say I can tell you that some of our lines of business in the large property the larger excess casualty the inland marine the large professional lines.
They are tracking right according to their plan.
This is Richie.
Volume was pretty flat for the first six months.
There is probably just like in our existing or legacy Markel operations.
There is always launch and looking at and may be getting out but at the same time there is things you’re doing or things that are growing.
So I think it’s a little early to say whether we think it would trend down or trend up.
Okay.
Is it fair to say you’re still accessing that or do you think you have a pretty good feel for it now.
Well we are looking at it as if I think we’re starting our 2014 planning I mean that’s where we are really going to dig into it and the leaders of the various areas that’s and what they think the business plan looks like for next year.
So I think a lot better in the next couple of months as we work through that process.
Let me just add there I just got back from (inaudible) earlier in the week meeting with several of the leaders of these lines of business.
One we continue to be very very impressed with the talent and with those leaders and with their philosophy with regards to the line of business which is very consistent with Markel historically.
So at this stage of the beginning it’d be hard for us to say that we could feel much better about the talents that joined Markel.
Okay.
And then as far as the favorable reserves development just on a ballpark basis is that pretty evenly spread over the last say seven eight years before we just say there is more in the old years versus say the last three four years? In other words what accident years? Yeah is it a ballpark? For the release of this quarter? Yeah.
They were spread pretty good E&amp;S was primarily in the casualty business and now it’s over a number of years and what I meant it was primarily the 2010 years.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just a technical question; on the amortization of the investment income will that increase or decrease investment income? It decreases investment income.
Okay that’s what I thought.
Just double checking.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah thank you.
Just a quick follow up on that last one.
When you do amortize the mark on the investments will it show up in the net investment income or will it I should say if it’s right.
If you sell some of these securities and the amortization is accelerated does that amortization show up in realized gains or realized losses or in net investment income? Right.
So in the instance of the sale of a security it will flow through realized.
Okay that makes sense.
Doesn’t always make sense? That does.
The second question is on the Alterra business; as you had mentioned with THOMCO and Hagerty you go through the prices once you buy something you’re getting that business on to your reserving methodology which almost always is more conservative what we hear is more conservative.
I recall in the past with Markel International that process took several years.
How long would you expect that process to take with Alterra? Jay it’s Richie.
You bring up Terra Nova and I’ll just say that the fact that that one took longer than we expected.
We had issues this year recall with Terra Nova and that probably took us longer than we would have expected.
At this point in the game and I think we said that when we were talking about the due diligence we did on Alterra we felt pretty good with the level of reserve they have.
We didn’t feel like they were quite to the standard or the margin of safety that we like to carry.
So I think we’re really – it certainly doesn’t get done in a year but as we sit here today over the next two years to three years that’s what I’m sort of thinking.
That’s helpful.
You mean the Terra Nova deal was clearly done in a different time.
So I see the difference and I appreciate the response.
Thanks.
No problem.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next is from the line of Doug Mewhirter with SunTrust.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
Just two questions.
First Mike about workers’ comp market I know that the rates across the board has been outperforming P&amp;C rate trends.
How did you see that sustainability of those trends and also do you feel that Markel’s participation in that is sort of outperforming the market or lagging in the market? Rate increases in the FirstComp are getting our little higher than some of our lines of business.
We don’t see that changing in the near future but it’s hard to predict.
Obviously we’d like for it continue for proceed in the future and it’s hard to tell but the rate increases we are hearing from FirstComp is that higher than some of our other lines of business.
So keep in mind we’re also changing the geographic spread there too which is also positive.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And my second and final question is more of a Opera related question.
Roughly what was the overlap between I guess what used to be called the original Opera U.S.
business on the smaller side and your Markel’s E&amp;S business? I know you did compete in certain areas.
We did and the E&amp;S business is being rolled into our E&amp;S operations here and our teams are working together to deal with any potential (inaudible) that we have will be consistent in our underwriting philosophy there.
With regards to other lines of business not as much at all.
Alterra on the large casualty large property to pressure line for the most part plays an area will be in that.
This is Richie.
And one of the nice things we’re seeing is even where we may be let’s say both on an account well it’s a bigger organization now so we don’t immediately have to say we had to drop one of these participations.
We can have a bigger appetite now with $6 billion of capital and also what we’ve done and said we’re trying and keeping both.
Yes it’s definitely a fair point.
So and just actually the clarification.
Mike you mentioned that you will be rolling the smaller Alterra E&amp;S into the Markel units for reporting purposes will it still be in the Alterra segment though? For the rest of this year.
Okay thanks.
That’s all my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of David West from Davenport &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Question for Tom; as you are facing these investment alternatives what do you see in terms of valuation levels for public equities versus what you are seeing in the private equity market when you evaluate the opportunities for ventures? I would say in the private world prices have gone up more dramatically and more consistently across the board than will be the case in the public world.
So the multiples we were paying of the things that we have bought in Markel Ventures in 2008 2009 that generally speaking is not available right now and you will notice we have been quiet we haven’t bought any major platforms within Markel Ventures for a while.
In public market there tends to be more dispersion.
So you will have headlines of things that are wildly popular and wildly unpopular at the same time so making a general statement meaningless in the public markets than it does in the private market.
So I’d say the opportunity set is actually a little bigger on the public side than the private side as we said right now.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
At this time there are no additional questions.
I’d like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for joining us.
We look forward to catching with you again soon.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Tom Gayner; President and Chief Investment Officer.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner you may now begin.
Thank you Rob good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation’s 2013 Third Quarter Conference Call.
My name is Tom Gayner and it is my privilege to greet you this morning and in a few minutes turn things over to our Chief Financial Officer Anne Waleski and Markel’s President Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt to give you a brief update on how things are going at Markel these days.
Prior to this call I was speaking with one of your long term shareholders about the conference call process.
He told me that he has owned the stock for about 20 years and never called us boring.
He said that he really couldn’t imagine us saying anything in the call that would change his mind about Markel and his long term ownership of the stock.
I thank him for his honesty and actually I agreed with him.
Our number one goal is actually to still be here 20 years from now and delivering a report just as boring as this one.
I suspect what he told me was true for our loyal and long-term owners to provide us with the capital we need to run this business.
I also suspect that it’s true for shorter term followers of the stock that usually issue a sell recommendation immediately following this call.
As the character Inigo Montoya said in The Princess Bride "You keep using that word.
I do not think it means what you think it does." I will leave it to those of you who would access to the long term part of the Markel to decide which unchanging point of view you wish to embrace.
The force that propelled the 27 year line on the chart up into the right cannot be found within the sales of the spread sheet.
Boring works for me when it comes to talking about our financial results.
We shouldn’t be that excited.
I am all in favor of grinding it out along the same lines that we have through our 27 years as a public company.
We’ve looked after the capital that you entrusted to us and we produced wonderful returns for the owners of this company.
Roughly speaking the longer you run Markel the more money you can make.
And by the way while it may look and sound boring I can promise you that we’re having a lot of fun doing this.
There is not a day that goes by when I don’t hear laughter at this office.
In addition they are some days when we are simply stunned by what happens.
I promise you that we are not bored.
With that frontloaded let me we share with you what I do consider the lower scoring part of our cost.
I’ll ready the Safe Harbor statement but our General Counsel advises me to share with you.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the caption Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and cautionary statements in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Anne? Thank you Tom.
For always starting it out with a smile.
Good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to be able to report as for the first nine of 2013 we have produced strong underwriting results and profitable growth in each of our legacy operating segments.
The Alterra segment has performed within our expectations and we continue to make significant progress with the integration efforts.
Our total operating revenues grew 39% to $3 billion in 2013 from $2.2 billion in 2012.
The increase is due to 42% increase in revenues from our insurance operations which includes $531 million from the Alterra segment and a 41% increase in revenues from our non-insurance operations which we refer to as Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results for the nine months of 2013 gross written premiums were $2.9 billion which is an increase of 53% compared to 2012.
The increase in 2013 was primarily due to $715 million of premiums from the Alterra segment since our acquisitions on May 1 2013.
As well as higher gross premium volume in the Specialty Admitted and Excess and Surplus Lines segment.
The increase in Specialty Admitted is driven by premiums from the Hagerty and THOMCO businesses.
Within the Excess and Surplus Lines segment the increase is due in part to the impact of more favorable rates and improving economic conditions.
Net written premiums for 2013 were approximately $2.4 billion up 39% in 2012.
The decrease in net retention is due to the inclusion of premiums written by Alterra from May 1 to September 30 2013.
Net retention in the Alterra segment for the five months period was 66% net retention for the legacy Markel segments was flat at 89% for both periods.
Earned premium increased 44% the increase in 2013 was primarily due to $530 of earned premium from the Alterra segment for the five months ended September 30 2013.
As well as higher earned premium volume in the Specialty Admitted and Excess and Surplus Lines segment.
The increase in Specialty Admitted is due to earned premium from the Hagerty and THOMCO businesses.
Our combined ratio was 97% for the first nine months of 2013 compared to 96% in 2012.
The increase in the combined ratio was due to a lower prior year loss ratio partially offset by a lower expense ratio compared to the same period in 2012.
During 2013 the benefit of the favorable development of prior years loss reserves had less of an impact on a combined ratio when compared to same period of 2012 due to higher earned premiums in the current year.
The 2013 results were also impacted by the Alterra segment which added six points to the combined ratio driven by $70 million of merger and acquisition costs and $33 million of catastrophe losses.
Favorable development on prior year loss reserves increased to $281 million or 12 points compared to $260 million or 17 points in 2012.
These amounts are net of $28 million from 2013 and $31 million from 2012 of unfavorable loss reserves development on asbestos and environmental exposures within our discontinued line segment.
We completed our annual review of these exposures during the third quarter of each year.
During this year’s review our expectation of the severity of the outcome for new claims increased and we increased our prior year loss reserves accordingly.
The decrease in the expense ratio for the first nine months of 2013 is driven by higher earned premiums in our legacy Markel segments compared to 2012.
Partially offset by the impact of the merger and acquisition costs incurred by Alterra.
Excluding the merger and acquisition costs incurred in 2013 the inclusion of Alterra had a favorable impact on the expense ratio.
Alterra has had a lower expense ratio than we have had historically.
The expense ratio for 2012 was unfavorably impacted by the prospective adoptions of the new tax changes which increased our expenses by $41 million or three points on the 2012 combined ratio.
Next I will discuss the results of Markel Ventures.
In the first nine months of 2013 revenue from Markel Ventures were $486 million compared to $345 million in 2012.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was $18 million in 2013 compared to $9 million in 2012.
EBITDA was $64 million in 2013 as compared to $41 million in 2012.
Revenues net income to shareholders and EBITDA from Markel Ventures increased in the first nine months of 2013 compared to the same period of 2012 primarily as a result of more favorable results at AMF Bakery Systems and our acquisitions in 2012 of Havco and Reading Bakery Systems.
Next we will turn to the investment results; investment income was up in 2013 to just under $229 million.
Net investment income for 2013 included $44 million of investment income attributable to Alterra which was net of $39 million in amortization expense from adjusting Alterra’s fixed maturity securities to a new amortized cost basis at the Acquisition Date.
Net investment income also included favorable changes in the fair value of our credit default swaps of $9 million as compared to $14 million for 2012.
Excluding the impact of Alterra and the credit default swap net investment income for the first nine months of 2013 decreased compared to 2012 due in part to a decrease in our fixed maturities and an increase in cash and cash equivalents.
Net realized investment gains for 2013 were $41 million compared to $25 million in 2012.
Included in net realized gains were $4.6 million of other-than-temporary impairments as compared to $4.2 million in 2012.
Tom will discuss investments further in his comments.
Looking on our total results for the nine months our effective tax rate was 28% in 2013 compared to an effective tax rate of 19% in 2012.
The increase is primarily due to higher estimated earnings tax of a 35% rate and due to anticipating a smaller tax benefit related to tax-exempt investment income as a result of projecting higher per-tax income for 2013 than in 2012.
We reported net income to shareholders of $182 million compared to $197 million in 2012.
Book value per share increased approximately 14% to $462 per share at September 30 2013 from $404 per share at year-end.
The increase is primarily due to equity issued in connection with the acquisition of Alterra and $253 million of comprehensive income to shareholders.
Finally I’ll make few comments about cash flow and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $542 million for the nine months ended September 30 2013 compared to $240 million for the same period of 2012.
The increase was driven by higher cash flows from underwriting activities and investment activities Markel.
The increase in cash flows from underwriting activities is primarily a result of the acquisition of Alterra and higher premium volumes primarily in our Specialty Admitted and Excess and Surplus Lines segments.
Investment assets at the holding company were $1.1 million at September 30 compared to $1.4 billion at year-end.
The decrease in invested assets in primary the result of tax paid to the Alterra acquisition partially offset by a net increase in debt.
I’d like to close with a quick mentions of the announcement we made on October 9 2013 regarding our offer to acquire Abbey Protection the UK based integrated specialist insurance and consultancy group.
Subject to shareholder and regulatory approval we expect this to close in January of 2014.
At this point I will turn it over to Mike to further discuss our operations.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
The results for legacy Markel in North American operations were very good and continued the positive trend we have seen during the year.
Gross written premiums increased 20% over prior year in the third quarter and 23% over prior year for nine months.
The E&amp;S segment performed well again with all five regions again showing growth.
Gross written premiums increased 8% over prior year in the quarter and 12% over prior year for nine months.
The combined ratio of 87.8% for the quarter was one point better than prior year.
The year-to-date combined ratio was 80.9% compared to 90.6% for the same period last year.
The segment continues to improve operating efficiency and the service to our agents and brokers.
Confirmation of this comes from the fact that annualized premiums for underwriter is up over 85 and the upgrades to our wholesale broker portal continues to receive very positive reviews from our agents.
During the quarter we announced that John Latham President of E&amp;S division will be stepping down from that position on January 1 2014.
John has regarding his plans for retirement in 2016 and has elected to spent his final few years at Markel focusing on our customers and assisting me with special projects.
John has done exceptional job leading the E&amp;S division over the past few years and he is to be commended for the excellence results that we are realizing today.
I want to emphasize that this is John’s decision and he will remain fully engaged at Markel over the next couple of years.
Bryan Sanders who joined Markel with the Alterra acquisition will assume the position of President of the E&amp;S division effective January 1 2014.
Bryan has a long and outstanding background in the wholesale world having been in the industry for 32 years.
He has served in leadership positions with Alterra Max Specialty and HRH where we worked together.
We have great confidence that Bryan will continue the success achieved under John’s leadership.
The Specialty Admitted segment also had a very good quarter.
Gross written premiums increased 37% over prior year in the quarter and are up 39% year-to-date.
The combined ratio in the quarter was 90.3% or 18.9 points lower than prior year due to lower calendar year loss ratio and higher prior year takedowns.
Year-to-date combined ratio was 100.8% or 7.4 points lower than prior year.
As Anne said the increase in gross written premiums in the Specialty division continues to be driven by the Hagerty and THOMCO business.
In the segment we’re continuing to execute on our plans which we talked about in the last call to exit unprofitable lines and non-renew certain specific accounts in order to improve our underwriting results for this segment.
With regards to our product line leadership head by Gerry Albanese the quarter was very active.
We are continuing to execute plans integrating the Alterra professionals within the product line leadership group.
We have successfully combined brokerage property teams and have adopted the Alterra property integration tools and pricing for the book.
Mike Miller who led the Marine Practice at Alterra has expanded his responsibilities and has both Commercial Ocean Marine and Inland Marine reporting to him.
We continue to hold joint product line meetings across the organization bringing professionals from Alterra Wholesale Specialty and Markel International to foster closer working relationships among these professionals.
Meetings have been held with the marine property professional liability and energy teams.
We’ve also now consolidated all of our homeowner spaces into our Personal Lines division under Audrey Hanken’s leadership.
Previously this business resided in Alterra Wholesale and our Personal Lines operations.
The only comment that I will make regarding to the rate environment is that we are still getting modest rate increases although down slightly from earlier end of year.
In summary a very good quarter for North American operations.
I’ll now turn the call over to Richie Whitt.
III</strong>  Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I’ll start my comments with Markel International’s nine-month results and then give an update on the Alterra integration.
Markel International had an amazingly consistent and sticking with Tom seeing somewhat boring results for the first nine months of 2013.
When I say boring I mean that in the absolute best of ways.
Boring is good in insurance.
International produced consistently strong results driven by solid prior accident year reserve releases and life catastrophe losses.
Gross written premiums increased 3% to $725 million.
Areas of growth included a specialty book as well as our Singapore and Netherlands branches.
Pricing trends have been very consistent throughout the year with modest single-digit price increases.
However in many areas of the market things remain competitive particularly in cat-exposed property both insurance and reinsurance professional liability retail and equine line.
There is much discussion in the industry on where pricing trends are headed right now.
At Markel we’re going to continue to push for price increases.
Given the current interest rate environment there really is no room to reduce rates and produce acceptable returns.
International’s combined ratio for the nine months of 2013 and 2012 was an 88 combined.
As I said previously both years benefited from relatively light catastrophe losses and solid prior accident year reserve releases.
While the nine months results were delightfully boring at Markel International the team was extremely busy in anything but bored with the integration of Alterra going on and the announcement of the proposed acquisition of Abbey Protection.
As Anne said Now I’d like to give a quick update on the acquisition of Alterra.
It’s been approximately six months since the deal closed on May 1.
We’ve made excellent progress bringing the two organizations together and with everyday that passes same yield more and more like business as usual.
As Ann stated Alterra’s results have largely been in line with our expectations and this is the really important statement as our expectations for Alterra are very high.
Within the Alterra segment premium volume in the global insurance and reinsurance divisions have met and in some cases exceeded expectations and they’re in line with prior year’s volumes.
The lines of business that will ultimately become part of Markel International in excess and surplus have also performed well.
The Alterra segment results for the nine months which includes $70 million of merger and acquisition cost are again in line with our expectations and we have begun the process of establishing a margin of safety on loss reserves.
Obviously this is similar to what we have done with all past acquisitions.
We’re looking forward to the day in the not too distant future when we no longer talk about legacy Markel and legacy Alterra and simply discuss our Markel results.
I believe we’re well on our way at this point.
As I stated last quarter we still have some work to do with our systems and our back office process is in order to fully integrate all elements of Alterra operations into our existing model.
As such we are managing and reporting the results of the legacy operations which include U.S.
insurance Alterra Lloyd’s global insurance and global reinsurance as our Alterra segment and expect to continue to do this for the remainder of the year.
We have several initiatives in place to make the changes in systems and processes that are necessary in order to implement a new segment reporting structure by the first quarter of next year.
You also note that we’ve included the legacy Alterra life and annuity book which is in runoff in our other discontinued line segments.
With one quarter to go we’re on target for an excellent year with outstanding underwriting process and very nice book value growth.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
As we’ve alluded to earlier we are delighted to report our year-to-date results figures.
In our investment operations 23.2% on our equity portfolio for the first nine months of 2013.
Amazingly enough that can outperform the 350 basis points compared to the S&amp;P 500 term of 19.7% and we repeat with 350 basis points ahead.
Normally I would expect to underperform in a [indiscernible] markets since we are conservative and defensive in nature we won’t complaint about that though.
More importantly this continued the multi decade record of secured investment returns.
I think it’s fair to say that our four part investment discipline of investing in profitable businesses with good returns on unlevered capital with honest and talented managers capital discipline and reinvestment opportunity at fair prices worked.
It is time tested and we are sticking to it.
In our fixed income operations we earned a return of negative 0.6%.
Interest rates are moving up and deploy among others going bankrupt as such we are keeping our duration short and credit quality is high as we know how to make it.
In total we are in the 4.5% of our investments and I am very pleased with those results as they contributed meaningfully to the comprehensive income of the Markel Corporation.
We are methodically adding capital to our equity portfolio and expect to continue to do so.
At Markel Ventures total revenues was 40% to $486 million from $345 million a year ago.
Our share of EBITDA from the Company rose 54% to $64.2 million up from $41.5 million a year ago.
During the third quarter we added Eagle Construction to the family.
Eagle is the leading Richmond based home builder and we have known the principles of the company through generations.
We formally worked with them together for several years in our Markel Eagle joint venture and we are delighted to welcome the home building organization to Markel.
One data point that might help to understand our respect for Eagle is that in 2008 and 2009 when the construction industry collapsed and home building stood at the very epicenter of the financial crisis Eagle remained profitable.
These are our kind of people and we couldn’t be happier because they are with us now.
Finally I would like to close with one thought that a thing separates Markel from so many other companies and even from Markel in its earlier days mainly from where we sit today we get to see opportunities to deploy capital in our existing insurance businesses new insurance opportunities publicly traded securities privately held businesses expansions and additions to businesses we already own and to an increasingly robust network of people we know and have done business with.
Some people would call this deal flow.
I think better name for it is idea flow because it creates a 360 degree view of the world.
I believe this is highly unusual and incredibly valuable.
Most companies are more constrained in their notions of what they can and will do and how they think about the allocation of capital.
We are a comprehensive company.
We have a comprehensive idea flow that covers a lot of fronts and we have experience at successfully reinvesting our capital in all sorts of businesses all around the world.
There is not a long list of organizations with those characteristics and it demonstrates our efforts we’re doing it reasonably well.
Hang on to us we are just getting started and we look forward to your questions about the firm.
Rob if you’d open up the floor for questions please.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) Thank you our first question is from the line of Doug Mewhirter of SunTrust Robinson.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
I just had really one question for Mike.
That is the – in the Specialty Admitted business the reserve releases in this quarter actually accelerated and I was just wondering what accident years or what sublines or segments did you see that.
And I guess related to that question just how your efforts to I guess reprice or improve the worker’s comp business is going?  So one it’s going very well and two FirstComp drove a lot of that and what was it less than 12 years.
Right.
Yes that where we had the releases but that business is performing very well and while it also has to do with the move of premium from California to non-California business and its growth.
Okay.
And actually it just reminded me of another question.
There has been a couple of competitors in the worker’s comp space who had some trouble and I am not sure how much overlap you had with them but has that triggered any positive disruption in the market for you or you may be seeing more submissions or you’re getting tiny bit more price leverage because of maybe less supply in the market? We are getting rates I can’t comment on where that business is coming from.
We are growing we are getting rate we are moving into different geographic areas.
And the business I have said for a number of quarters that FirstComp is performing and on the path that we have set out for them when we acquired them in November of 2010.
And they’re executing their business extremely well in a tough comp environment.
We couldn’t be more pleased with the direction of that business.
Okay great.
Thanks.
That’s all my questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Good morning.
Just a couple of questions.
Richie you had talked a little bit about heavy protection.
Can you just give us a little sense of kind of what their historic level of premiums has been and where their combined ratios are and things like that just to kind of frame the possibilities there? III</strong>  Sure sure.
It’s a bit of a hybrid business Mark.
And so you have to think of it in terms of revenues really quite honestly because it’s both an underwriting business and a service business.
Historically about £40 million in revenue so call that about 60 million they’ve been able to drop about £10 million call it about 15 million to the bottom line.
And it’s a combination of underwriting risk where they take underwriting risk on – legal protection or other professional services like where if a person is brought in on a tax audit or something like that by the internal revenue in the U.K.
As well as they provide services such as legal advice and some of that tax advice.
So it’s an interesting business because it’s a little bit insurance it’s a little bit service.
It fits very nicely into our retail operations it gives us additional product set to offer our small to medium size retail customers and so we think it’s really kind of expands what we can do in the U.K.
retail market.
Thanks that’s really helpful background.
And question I guess maybe for Anne or Tom the level of cash on the balance sheet that was in the investment classification book just the actual cash it’s probably be the highest I’ve ever seen it is this just taking the opportunity to build cash resources with the debt markets the way they’ve been or do you have some other kind of allocation in mind for some of that cash?  Well the number one spectacular reason that it keeps growing and these are making a lot of money.
So that is a good thing.
So… The bottom portfolio for instances as I’ve said is not really much of the yield curve it’s the yield line.
So the opportunity cost have staying short and staying in cash and persevering all of the optionally for what you want to do with it.
Doesn’t incur much in the way of opportunity cost so those were some factors going on there.
The other factors will be we did just do a major acquisition and we’ve had another one in the works right now.
We are buying companies to Markel Ventures.
We got a lot of opportunity to deploy that.
But has always you can expect us to be careful and methodical about the way we would go about it.
And you can also expect at some point that we have higher interest rate which I expect moves invest the bond portfolio in a longer term fashion than what we do right now.
Okay fair enough and one last thing just numbers question for Anne when you were saying the portion of amortization related to the Alterra piece of investment income that was $39 million you had said?  That’s correct.
So the earn $44 million and the amortization was $39 million so really almost no benefit value at this quarter? No.
No that $44 million was net of the $39 million.
Right.
Got it.
And also that’s sort of an interesting feature of our financial since we took over Alterra you are not seeing a huge increase in investment income because of that amortization but where you are seeing it is in the cash flow $540 million of cash flow is a significant increase over what we had at this point in the last year.
And that amortization sort of explain some of the difference between what are you seeing through the P&amp;L and what you are seeing on the cash flow statement.
Okay.
That was very helpful thanks I’ll hop back.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes thank you.
A couple of questions.
First is in the third quarter it looks like the Ventures business earnings were a bit low quite a bit lower than the run rate of what we had been seeing.
I’m just thinking kind of other revenues minus other expenses what’s going on there?  Jay I don’t actually think there is anything significant going on there if you are comparing it to the prior period could just be timing of orders but and looking through the quarterly results there wasn’t anything worthy of note.
Because it looked to me like the net of other revenues and expenses even running $15 million to $20 million this quarter looks like it was close to $8 million do you think even though that’s look like a big drop is nothing unusual at all? And there wasn’t anything unusual in our analysis but I’m happy to take it up with you offline and kind of go through it.
But nothing came up worthy of note like I said there can be some timing and some seasonality in the numbers but nothing worthy of comment.
If I were – this is a bit of guess from my part what we look at in terms of looking at the businesses and how they are doing EBITDA and the cash generation of business itself.
And we talked about that earlier in the call the numbers and Markel Ventures portfolio in terms of doing is fine.
We had previously introduce as a rough short cut the other revenues and other expenses has a pretty good proxy for what’s going on.
There are other things that go on and other revenues and other expenses that Mike just told that number would be but the directional information we gave on the revenue and the EBIT of Markel ventures is pretty good description of how things are going there and they’re going pretty well.
Got it do you think it has become a bigger part of the income statement it would be great to get better disclosure around that since it’s going to growing as well.
just one quick request that’s all? Second question the amortization of the Alterra investment portfolio which is obviously holding back GAAP investment income can you talk about what that number looks like going forward?  The amortization number for Alterra is investment portfolio will be taken across the duration of the portfolio basically so it’s going to run for I would guess three or four years.
It probably looks close to the same quarter-over-quarter although it will come down some as we sell securities.
III</strong> Yes so maybe a way to think about it I think it’s roughly in helping out I guess $20 million a quarter right now? The duration of the portfolio is about probably five years.
Four to five years.
III</strong> And so that $20 million should sort of trail-off over the next four years or so from that $20 million down to nothing as those securities mature.
It’s a pretty big number I mean when the day we bought the day we bought Alterra was probably the – close to probably the low for the rates and they cut back up since then.
So we marked the portfolio pretty significantly on May 1 and that’s what we are amortizing through.
Got it.
That makes sense.
I’m sure it’s in the Q just in the – unamortized portion what is that equal right now? III</strong> I don’t know.
And I’m not sure it’s in the Q but I’m sure that’s something we’d be willing to put in going forward if it’s not.
We’ll get something to you Jay.
That’s great.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
I’ll re-queue with other question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is from [indiscernible].
Please state the question.
Hello everyone.
III</strong> Hello.
A couple of questions Richie you spoke about establish a marginal safety for the Alterra book I noticed that the current yield loss ratio has improved quarter-over-quarter I know five year developments in there in the Alterra segment.
So could you describe how that first desk looks and will evolve over time and how it will impact the financials.
III</strong> Sure very consistent with what we’ve done in all past acquisitions we have a policy or a philosophy at Markel of being more likely redundant and efficient.
And when we buy company we sort of thread our way into that philosophy by adding a margin of safety to the current accident year.
The reason for the decrease year-over-year was catastrophe losses in the prior year primarily but I can assure we did take the actuarial pick and did very consistent methodology to add a margin of safety to the reserves in the question and we’ll be doing that as we go forward.
Margin and safety that we’ve added depends on the type of business that it is and impact acquisition that’s been anywhere from 4 point to 10 point on the business on the current accident year as we earned that business.
And what I got to tell you here is that it’s in that range of what we’re adding to Alterra current accident year as it’s earned on to our books.
Okay.
And given that’s consistent with what I see over the long run in terms of reserve releases and how that cycle works that makes sense.
And then one to Tom which is I wouldn’t in my limited experience handle this describe the majority of them as profitable high return investment capital with solid management and create reinvestment opportunities.
So could you describe what you see that’s different perhaps to Eagle and how they run that business different from the typical home builder?  Well the great thing about Eagle as demonstrated by the fact that they remained profitable is miserable in an environment as you can have is that intellectual capital of the organization is really what matters and you have people who have outstanding relationships with subcontractors and a network of people who can get things done.
So the size of the Eagle organization relative to what they do in terms of the people that aren’t their payroll is actually relatively small and expecting accordingly it can expand and shrink back depending on the set of opportunities that are out there and they’ve successfully done it for two generations.
So we have a lot of confidence in our ability to continue to do that in that flexibility and striking part of Markel as you see the advantage for them in the sense that it is the appropriate time to add capital and to try to seize opportunities and push ahead we can support that further.
At the same time when it’s time to go and reverse that and shrink and put it down.
That’s okay because that can redistribute that capital back to us and we’ll find other ways to put it to use.
If you’re a standalone model volume company you don’t typically add the possibilities.
Thanks for the time that we have happening in our insurance businesses as opposed to one line in the insurance we have 100 and different time some of the need capital and others are generating capital and then the overall profit environment put the capital to good use.
That makes sense.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Thank you very much.
We look forward to speaking with you soon.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Tom Gayner; President and Chief Investment Officer from Markel Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner.
You may begin.
Thank you Bob.
Good morning and welcome everybody to the Markel Corporation first quarter conference call.
I’m glad that you’ve joined us today.
My name is Tom Gayner and with me today are Anne Waleski our Chief Financial Officer; and my Co-President’s Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt.
Anne will go over the numbers with you Mike and Richie will update you on our insurance operations and I’ll finish with a few brief comments on our investments and Markel Ventures activities.
Following that we look forward to answering your specific questions.
Before we do so though I’m required to reiterate our Safe Harbor statement so here it goes.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions risk factors and Safe Harbor and cautionary statement in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find the reconciliation to GAAP of these measures on our website at www.markelcorp.com and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
And with that turn it over to Anne.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Before I deliver our first quarter result I would like to provide some information on our new reporting segments.
As we highlighted in our 2013 fourth quarter conference call and Form 10-K we are now aggregating and monitoring our underwriting results in the following four segments; U.S.
Insurance International Insurance Reinsurance and Other Discontinued Lines.
We believe this segmentation of our underwriting results provides the most meaningful way to look at our performance in comparison to our peer group and provides the reporting framework which can be consistently used to more quickly integrate future acquisitions into our financial reporting processes.
To recap the U.S.
Insurance segment includes all direct business and facultative placements written by our insurance subsidiaries domiciled in the United States.
The International Insurance segment includes all direct business and facultative placements written by our insurance subsidiaries domiciled outside of the United States including the company’s syndicates at Lloyd’s.
The Reinsurance segment includes all treaty reinsurance written across the company.
Results for lines of business discontinued prior to or in conjunction with acquisitions will continue to be reported in the Other Insurance Discontinued Lines segment.
As a reminder the Form 8-K filed on April 22 2014 provided a resegmentation of our previously reported results for 2011 2012 and each quarter of 2013.
The segment changes have no effect on our historical consolidated financial results of operation.
Effective January 1 2014 Syndicate 1400 was put in run off and all legacy Alterra at Lloyd’s business is now being underwritten on Markel Syndicate 3000.
Likewise since the acquisition some legacy Alterra U.S.
property renewals as well as other new business obtained from legacy Alterra producers are now written so that it is difficult to distinguish them from legacy Markel business.
For these reasons and the continued combination of underwriting platform systems and product offerings it has become and will continue to be more and more difficult each quarter to separately identify and quantify legacy Alterra results.
Increasingly we are not thinking legacy Alterra or legacy Markel we are just thinking our company.
Since that’s where we wanted to be we are glad we are here and we are glad that it’s been a relatively quick process.
Now let’s talk about our first quarter 2014 results.
The year is off to a solid start.
Our total operating revenues grew 15% to $1.2 billion in 2014 from $820 million in 2013.
The increase is driven by the expanded underwriting platform in the larger investment portfolio resulting from the Alterra acquisition.
Other revenues were up just under 8% to $186 million from $173 million last year primarily due to revenue growth within Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results gross written premiums were $1.4 billion for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $743 million in 2013 an increase of 83% which each of our three ongoing underwriting segments contributing to this growth.
Net written premiums for the first quarter of 2014 were approximately $1.1 billion up 72% from the prior year for the same reason.
Net retention was down in 2014 at 84% compared to 89% in 2013.
The decrease which is in line with our expectations is primarily due to higher use of reinsurance on a number of products and in global insurance and global reinsurance division.
Earned premiums increased 68% to $949 million for the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in 2014 was driven by the inclusion of our full quarter of legacy Alterra product offerings included in each of our three ongoing underwriting segments as well as a full quarter from our Hagerty business.
Our consolidated combined ratio for the first quarter of 2014 was 95% compared to 91% a year ago.
The increase in the combined ratio was driven by a higher current accident year loss ratio and a lower benefit of prior year loss redundancy partially offset by our lower expense ratio.
The increase in the 2014 consolidated current accident year loss ratio is primarily due to a higher current year loss ratio from – for our International and Reinsurance segments each of which have a higher proportion of premiums coming from legacy Alterra product offerings than our U.S.
Insurance segment.
During the first quarter of 2014 legacy Alterra product offerings carried a higher current accident year loss ratio than our other product offerings due to higher attritional loss ratios and applying our more conservative loss reserving philosophy.
The consolidated combined ratio for the first quarter of 2014 included $107 million of favorable development on prior year loss reserves compared to $85 million in 2013.
The benefit of the favorable development on prior year loss reserves had less of an impact on the combined ratio in 2014 than in 2013 due to higher earned premium volume in 2014.
The decrease in the consolidated expense ratio in the first quarter of 2014 was driven by higher earned premiums in each of our ongoing underwriting segments compared to a year ago.
Before moving on to other results I would like to make a few comments about our actual 2014 first quarter underwriting results compared to the pro forma first quarter 2013 underwriting results.
We have included these pro forma results in the Form 10-Q for informational purposes only.
But feel that the additional perspective that this comparison provides is helpful given the fact that the actual results for the first quarter of 2013 included nothing for Alterra.
The pro forma results were prepared as if the acquisition occurred on January 1 2013 and therefore provide a full quarter of combined company underwriting results for 2013 in an effort to make the year-over-year comparison more meaningful.
On a pro forma basis gross premiums written were down $33 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to a year ago primarily due to lower reinsurance premium driven by several non-renewals and softening market conditions.
This decrease is partially offset by an increase in gross written premiums from the Hagerty business.
Net retention of gross premium volume was 84% in the first quarter of 2014 compared to an 81% on a pro forma basis in the same period for 2013.
The increase is primarily driven by higher retentions on certain of our reinsurance products.
Earned premiums were $949 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to a pro forma $910 million in the same period for 2013.
The increase is primarily due to having a full quarter of Hagerty business in 2014.
The combined ratio was 94% for the first quarter of 2014 compared to a pro forma 92% for the same period of 2013 largely due to a higher current accident year loss ratio in 2014.
The increase in the current accident year loss ratio was due in part to applying our more conservative loss reserving philosophy to Alterra’s long tail of lines of business.
When we look at the underlining results in this manner we believe it is much easier to see that we have retained a significant portion of the business previously written by the two separate organizations and that we have been successful in achieving our target of underwriting profit while applying Markel’s historically more conservative loss reserving philosophy.
Now I’ll discuss the results of Markel Ventures.
During the first quarter of 2014 revenues from Markel Ventures were $171 million compared to $162 million a year ago.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures for the period was just over $1 million in 2014 compared to $3.6 million for the first quarter of 2013.
EBITDA was $14 million in 2014 compared to $19 million in 2013.
The increase in revenues from our Markel Ventures operations during 2014 was primarily due to our acquisition of Eagle Construction in August 2013 partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our manufacturing operation.
Less favorable results from our manufacturing operations partially offset by Eagle Construction’s contributions resulted in a period-over-period decrease in net income to shareholders and EBITDA.
The results of the run off life and annuity business acquired as part of the Alterra transactions are included in the Other Discontinued Lines segment.
Other expenses for the first quarter of 2014 included $8.6 million of discount accretion determined as of the acquisition date.
Investment income was $87 million for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $65 million last year.
Net investment income for 2014 was net of $18 million in amortization expense from adjusting Alterra’s fixed maturity securities to a new amortized cost basis at the acquisition date.
The benefit of holding a larger portfolio was partially offset by its lower yield.
Net realized investment gains for the quarter were $17 million compared to $18 million a year ago.
There were no other than temporary impairments in either period.
Looking at our total results for the year our projected effective tax rate was 25% in the first quarter of 2014 compared to 24% a year ago.
The increase in the effective tax rate in 2013 was driven by a higher projected earnings taxed at 35% range in 2014 compared to 2013.
We reported net income to shareholders of $88 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $89 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income was $230 million this year as compared to $258 million a year ago.
And as a result book value per share at the end of March 2014 was $493.96 a share an increase of 4% since the end of 2013.
Finally I’ll make a couple of comments on cash flows in the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $22 million for the first three months of 2014 compared to $56 million for the same period of 2013.
The decrease was driven by higher payments for income taxes employee profit sharing and agent incentive commissions in 2014 as compared to 2013.
Historically first quarter is our lowest cash generating quarter based on the payment of the items I just mentioned.
We would expect cash from operations to improve in the second quarter.
Invested assets at the Homing Company were $1.1 billion at March 31 2014 compared to $1.3 billion at the year end 2013.
The decrease is primarily due to the timing of inner-company settlements.
With that I will turn it over to Mike to talk about the U.S.
Insurance segment.
Thanks Anne good morning.
As Anne explained the U.S.
insurance segment comprises all direct business written on our U.S.
Insurance companies and includes all of the underwriting results of our wholesale division and our specialty division as well as certain products written by our global insurance team.
The U.S.
Insurance segment had an excellent quarter with gross written premiums increasing 29% over prior year.
This increase was due in large part to the Alterra lines of business that are now included in this segment.
Excluding these lines premium volume increased in the low single-digits over 2013 mainly driven by higher volume from the Hagerty business which was new to us in 2013.
The combined ratio for the quarter was 96% compared to 91% in 2013.
The deterioration in the U.S.
Insurance segments combined ratio was due in part to adverse development in the architects and engineers lines of business and a higher current accident year loss ratios on the lines within our global insurance division.
Generally these lines have higher attritional loss ratios than other products within the U.S.
Insurance segment.
Additionally we continue to build a margin of safety on newer lines of business.
This was partially offset by increased premium – of increased earned premium on the Hagerty business which carries a loss – a low loss ratio.
Our U.S.
operations are focusing on two key areas that are critical to our results.
First our executive underwriting team continues to execute our plan to exit underperforming accounts in lines of business.
This process was begun in 2013 and will continue throughout 2014.
In addition the leaders of our wholesale and specialty divisions are terminating agreements with underperforming agents and brokers those that place little or no business with Markel.
This streamlining of our agency group allows us to be more efficient and to provide a higher level of service to those who consistently send us a strong flow of submissions that meet our underwriting appetite.
With regards to the rate environment we are seeing decreases that in some cases are significant on our large account business.
Specifically we are seeing these decreases in our property professional liability and general liability lines for large accounts.
We are maintaining underwriting discipline and will walk away from business where we cannot justify the pricing.
On smaller accounts we are experiencing rates ranging from flat to moderate single-digit increase.
During the first quarter our senior management team met with a number of our largest producers.
The feedback we received was very positive with all of these firms commenting on our expanded offerings the quality of our service and the fact that we integrated Alterra without any interruption of our service to them.
Finally I would like to take this opportunity to thank Susan Swanson President of our Mid-West region of her service to Markel.
Susan will be retiring in June of this year after 32 years at Markel.
She worked her way up from the ground floor to the regional presence role and her leadership and enthusiasm will be sorely missed.
We hope Susan visits us often and we wish her a happy retirement.
I’ll now turn the call over to Richie.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
In my comments today I’ll focus on our International Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
I’ll start by discussing the International Insurance segments first quarter results and then discuss the results for our Reinsurance segment and finish up with some recent pricing trends and competition discussion.
As Anne explained our International Insurance segment is comprised of all direct and facultative business written on any of our insurance companies domiciled outside the U.S.
The segments includes business written on – by our Markel international division as well as that written by our global insurance division.
In the first quarter gross written premiums in the International Insurance segment increased 25% to $294 million.
The increase is primarily due to business written by the global insurance division which was created after the acquisition of Alterra.
The International Insurance segment finished the quarter with a 91% combined ratio compared to 94% in 2013.
The decrease in the combined ratio for this segment was primarily due to more favorable prior year reserve releases in marine and energy professional and financial risk in Elliott’s special risk units within our Markel International division.
This is partially offset by higher loss ratios on the professional and general liability lines of business in the global insurance division.
Lines of business written by the global insurance division generally have higher attritional loss ratios than our other products included in this segment.
Also consistent with past acquisitions we are applying our more conservative reserving philosophy on these lines of business.
The segments expense ratio was favorably impacted by earned premiums from the global insurance line of business which carries a lower expense ratio due to lower acquisition costs.
Now I would like to discuss the results of the Reinsurance segment.
Our Reinsurance segment includes all three reinsurance programs written around the world including that written by our global reinsurance division as well as that written by our Markel International division.
Gross written premiums for this segment were $490 million in the first quarter of 2014 this was up from $62 million a year ago.
The increase in premium writings was primarily due to product previously written by Alterra which are now part of the Markel International division.
Also the global reinsurance division which was created after the acquisition of Alterra contributed approximately $315 million of volume in the first quarter.
The combined ratio for the segment was 94% compared to 84% last year.
Obviously the composition of the segment is very different year-over-year with the current year having significantly more causality reinsurance business which carries higher loss and expense ratios than the property reinsurance lines that made up the majority of the segment one year ago.
This is partially offset by more favorable prior year development coming from property reinsurance lines.
Regarding pricing conditions and competition the International Insurance and Reinsurance markets remain extremely competitive.
There has been abundance capacity and there have been a number of new entrants in recent months with more likely in the near future.
While market conditions are becoming more difficult Markel is well positioned to succeed.
As we’ve discussed in the past we have tremendous diversification among our five insurance divisions.
We also have absolute dedication to underwriting discipline and the willingness and more importantly flexibility to put down the pen when pricing is not adequate.
We’ve seen less than ideal market conditions many times before and as Tony Markel once famously said this is not our first rodeo.
We are confident we can navigate in a competitive market.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
As promised in the intro my comments will be very brief this morning.
As is always the case we remain completely focused on the long-term growth in the intrinsic value to Markel Corporation.
We measure ourselves on five year rolling financial metrics and the result of anyone quarter can vary dramatically from our long-term upward path.
That said it is always more fun to give you a report after good quarter than a bad one and this was largely a good.
Here is the headline for the quarter we made money in bonds stocks and in Markel ventures.
It can be easy to get struck in the weeds and the details at any one spot within the Markel Corporation but I think it’s important to keep a clear view of the big picture results.
When we make money bonds stocks and Markel ventures as we did this quarter all of those factors combined to amplify and turbo charge the excellent results produced by our underwriter.
In a perfect world we have that same headline every quarter.
This is not a perfect world though everyone.
The good news is that we are able to give you that report in more quarters than not.
When you start talking about years the ratio improves and when you start looking at the more important five year type horizons we use to measure and describe our financial results we have consistently produced that same headline for years.
We expect to continue to do so.
Getting back to the beginning of 2014 the overall investment return for the first 90 days of the year was a positive 2.0%.
With equities up 3% and fixed income up 1.7%.
We continue to manage our investments in house effectively as demonstrated by our long-term performance at very low cost with total investment management costs being a single digit number of basis points and with great tax efficiency that comes from our long-term and low turnover ownership-oriented approach.
Abraham Lincoln spoke of four score and seven years when he tried to make a point about time.
I will describe our long-term investment horizon in somewhat differently.
But in the same period of time that you could have made two sequential batches of 12-year-old Scott whiskey and be a year into the third one we have earned 12.5% per year on our equity investments or 160 basis points above that of the S&amp;P 500.
We continue to methodically and systematically add to our equity holdings.
Equity investments now comprise 49% of our shareholders equity up from the roughly 40% level immediately following the Alterra acquisition.
We continue to find reasonable and productive investment ideas but we also can be accused of driving the car with one foot on the brakes.
So be it.
We think it is far more important to know that we can handle any upcoming curves in the road rather than trying to race ahead too fast.
Over time and with good ideas we will approach a more normal equity allocation of roughly 80% of our shareholders equity and equity investments.
We will move faster markets give us the opportunity to do so but we won’t be rushed by artificial targets.
In fixed income we earned 1.7% during the quarter.
We started the process of beginning to extend the duration of our bond portfolio modestly the last few months.
The duration of our portfolio now stands at about 3.8 and over time we would expect to move that to approximately 4.5 and inline with the duration of our insurance liability.
We can pick up a modest amount of investment income as we do this and we continue to predominately buy municipal securities as we go about this process.
In Markel ventures we earned $14.9 million of EBITDA in the first quarter compared to $19.3 million a year ago.
First quarter results were below our expectations.
So we are optimistic that full year results will be better than what the first quarter might imply.
Our optimism for the full year comes from three reasons.
One our home building and dormant furniture businesses are somewhat seasonal and is the first quarter is typically the lowest level of profitability for those operations.
We did not own the home building business in 2013.
We did in 2014.
Secondly manufacturing operations sell capital goods and they regularly experience large swings in orders and deliveries from period-to-period.
2014 is up to a slow start in those areas but we remain optimistic about our full year and longer-term results.
Thirdly we continue to fund some rapid expansions in certain operations and incurred a cost of doing so.
All of those factors should gradually improve during the course of the year and we remain optimistic about the prospects of the Markel venture operations.
One of the beauties of Markel from a financial point of view is that we have proven successful and recurring streams of profit from underwriting investing and the industrial and service operations in Markel ventures.
All of them together can and have historically produced resilient and on going positive returns for our shareholders.
We are glad for the chance to provide you with this regular update and we look forward to doing so in the future.
We are looking forward to it because we are optimistic that we will be able to continue to build one of the world’s great and it is fun to be able to share the news of doing so with our owners.
With that Todd if you be so kind as to open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mark Hughes with Lafayette Investments.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi it’s Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Tom could you talk about your outlook for interest rates here.
You say you are slowly beginning to extend the duration portfolio.
What’s your view on rates here? Well I still think that rates are too low and they are unnatural.
We have had that point of view for a while and that in the investment business is early enough to be confused with being wrong.
We have had a pretty substantial mismatch between the normal match of our insurance liabilities to the investment portfolio.
We are not rapidly and to – move this kind of a ship – size of a ship around.
It will be very gradual.
Get that duration back in line but rather than let it continue to come in which is what we’ve been doing for the last couple of years.
We are just starting to nudge it out and we have experienced a dramatically different interest rate environment we’ll move faster to do that but we’ll move pretty methodical and just moving it out.
Right.
In the professional liability area that was one of the segments you highlighted as the rates coming down meaningfully.
At the same time you had adverse developments in architects and engineers.
Any more detail you can provide on what’s going on there?  Well this is Mike.
It’s very competitive and professional lines and obviously architects and engineers are just one of the professional lines that we run.
I mean we run a lot of medical lines we write lawyers we write a lot of different lines.
Where we are seeing the real competitive pricing is in the very large account business and we don’t write really large architects and engineers firm.
So it’s more in the medical and other professional lines where we’re seeing the rate decreases.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Couple of questions Richie you had talked about – a little bit about the composition on the reinsurance book and you indicated that it was substantially casualty.
Can you just give us a broad general percentage of what portion is still property?  No it’s kind of rough.
Well it’s about 70% global rein and 30% Markel International.
So if you use that as a proxy.
It’s probably about 60:40 causality to-date and obviously the causality carries a much higher loss ratio we had a first quarter with very low catastrophe losses very low – almost none so fairly low loss ratio there.
But on the causality business you have to start out very conservative and that that’s really what’s driving that combined ratio up for the 40 segment.
That’s fine thank you.
The second question is kind of – somewhat in the same vein.
What proportion of your business I guess in both the International and maybe in the Reinsurance segment as well is exposed to currency risk? I mean I heard that’s – a lot of at Lloyd’s is priced and denominated in dollars but what proportion has an FX exposure? Mark I would be guessing to give you a number and we can go back and kind of look to help you out.
But you are absolutely right a lot – what you find in marine and energy and what you find at Lloyd’s is a tremendous amount of business even though it’s foreign business is denominated in dollars.
So clearly our South American business there is some currency exposure there although a lot of those contracts are denominated in dollars.
So yes we’ll have to get back to you with a number but it’s relatively low when you look at our balance sheet I would guess and say 10% to 15%.
Okay.
And one thing I would add to that Mark is the investment activity follows the form to use a reinsurance word on whatever writing in the insurance business.
So if we are putting liabilities of our books in any foreign currency typically we will high investments in that currency as well to keep it economically matched.
Actually that’s where my question started.
I was looking that you had I think it was between 10% and 15% of your investment portfolio denominated in foreign bonds and that’s actually where I started.
So it ended up pretty closer to the answer.
That’s – that would be 10% to 15% that would equate to probably 10% to 15% of the reserves being in those foreign currencies.
The business is probably in that realm in terms of the original currency of the premium we are writing.
Okay.
The last question I had relates to the Abby protection business I guess I found somewhere in the queue that that business had about $3 million or so million of revenues in the quarter.
I think when we talked about it initially the annual run rate was in the $50 million to $60 million range.
I guess that implies to me that there is probably a reasonable amount of seasonality to that? I hope that you could just comment that just kind of help clarify how the revenue stream comes through on that one? That’s what I thought.
The revenues for Abby Mark revenues for Abby show up in two different places.
The insurance business that we right is part of our gross written and earned premium and that’s going to be the majority of that $60ish million in revenue.
There is a service component to the business – professional services component to the business and that’s what you are seeing.
I guess you are picking that up in other revenues other expenses… Right.
That’s the professional service component $3 million for the quarter $12 million or so million probably for the year is what we’ve been looking for there.
So that would be sort of the split.
The total of $60 million $12 million or so coming from services the rest of it earned premium on insurance business.
I see that solves that thanks.
No more questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Berry – Lane Five Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello everyone.
So as a start to get comfortable with earning this – the global reinsurance operation.
I just wanted to get your high-level thoughts especially Richie’s on the global reinsurance operation seems like a departure from the way I have always thought about Markel’s sort of cost skill set on the underwriting of bringing their in-depth knowledge and expertise concerning specific risks.
It feels to me like it would be harder to price appropriately given the lack of knowledge of the underlying risks.
And so how do you get comfortable that this is something we can earn a valuable underwriting profit on over the cycle.
I mean after all I value the cost free flow pretty highly.
Right.
Well a couple of things there.
We have five insurance divisions.
The reinsurance division is one of those.
So we have quite a bit of diversification amongst the products.
I like reinsurance as a business.
I like it even better if it’s one of my five businesses because then I have the flexibility to lever that up and go down quite honestly when the markets are not where we would like to see them.
So I think reinsurance is a business that can add value for us considerably over time and the fact that we’ve got the flexibility the way we are structured it really adds to that.
Obviously with the Alterra acquisition we picked up a team of extremely experienced underwriters.
And we talked about when we did our due diligence on Alterra.
We came away feeling very comfortable with the expertise of the underwriters and the underwriting philosophy which is even – possibly even more important.
These guys are very much – while we are writing treaty insurance it feels very much like individual account underwriting the way it’s approached.
So I have a lot of confidence in our ability to get the pricing correct on the business.
Now with that may mean in a soft market like we are currently experiencing is we may write less.
And I fully expect that if market conditions stay challenging in reinsurance.
So I feel very good about the reinsurance operation as part of Markel.
Matthew I would like to add.
I think this is where the mindset and the culture of Markel is quite relevant to this.
I mean the way that all of our business that are unique and diversified parts we are willing to do more of the things where the profit opportunities are good and less of the ones that aren’t.
And we have the ability because we are diversified throughout the company in different types of insurance different types of investments as well as Markel Ventures to hold ourselves to the standard that an owner would whether it makes sense to do it for the long run or not and reinsurance fits that to a tee.
Because there are times when you really want to write as much of that business as you possibly can and there are times where if you don’t but you won’t get any of the good stuff if you are not there and in the market and have talented people making the decisions.
And as long as there are long-term owners and people have the longtime time horizon we will be just fine with it.
Okay.
And then Tom if you could just very quickly continue to – on that theme with – from your angle how does the reinsurance float differ in terms of the length and sort of volatility of the tail and how does that impact your job in terms of managing the portfolio? Well the good news is it doesn’t differ at all in the sense that it’s catch and we get to invest it.
Now what we will do and this is a discussion that we sort of coordinate with the actuary.
We look at what the expected liabilities are.
So for writing business we keep that money pretty short.
And for writing liability business we;;ll keep that a little bit longer.
And that’s really consistent with what we do for any piece of float that comes in here whether it was primary or reinsurance.
Okay.
And then I have one final one which is just historically you guys have split out acquisition costs in your annual – from other underwriting expenses in your annual filings on a per segment basis.
I didn’t notice that in the 8-K.
which you released with the new segmentation.
It is helpful to me when I think about Markel and I sort of compare you guys against some of the other firms to think about how you go about acquiring the business and to think about acquisition costs.
And I just wanted to double check that you were intending to keep splitting out acquisition costs for me.
Matthew I believe that’s the intent and it was the case in 10-K.
I don’t think we intended to communicate vis-à-vis the 8-K that we were discontinuing that practice.
Okay good.
That’s great.
Thank you very much Anne.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
And thank you to you guys for giving us the historical data on the new format that was really helpful for our modeling.
So I appreciate that.
I guess let me start with some questions on the non-insurance piece.
Tom you had mentioned manufacturing had a slow – first off what products are we talking about? Is there any particular product where you saw that sluggishness? Sure.
There were three lines in the manufacturing world.
One we make the safety and equipment for commercial bakers and those are major installations where a bun that you are going to eat a hamburger on at a fast food restaurant or a loaf of bread you are going to buy at a store.
Those are multimillion dollars projects that go over multiple years so that’s something of a lumpy business.
The other business that’s lumpy is our dredge business.
And we saw dredges that range in cost from starting probably about $250 000 or $300 000 if you want something for your backyard up to something north of $10 million.
The $10 million plus dredges we would hope to sell three of those in five years so in any one quarter that can distort the results quite a bit.
The other business that we have in that area that was affected the business in the first quarter is our business that makes truck flooring wood crisis in case you follow that were up.
That compressed margins a bit and it compressed it a little bit ahead of our opportunity and ability to get some price increases but we subsequently had some price increases there.
So that should – it’s one of the reasons I’m optimistic about the rest of the year but those are the manufacturing businesses that were off to a bit of a soft start in the first quarter.
That’s great.
Very helpful.
Secondly  with the Abby consulting business which shows up in this other business.
There was – I guess a net loss in the quarter and I don’t know if there was a seasonality effect there or from an annual standpoint should we expect an earnings contribution from that business? Yes I think we would expect.
Well first of all that business supports the underwriting business.
So we probably aren’t looking for massive margins on the consulting business because in effect it does support our ability to the insurance business.
But I think overtime we certainly want to at least cover our cost and make a little bit on that consulting business.
And actually we are looking to add consulting services.
We would over time maybe even hope to expand the margins on that.
Got it.
That is helpful.
And then the other piece which again loss money in a quite bit but I know it can jump around quite a bit is the run off business for the life and annuity business.
Can you give us any sense of what your expectation is for an earnings contribution from that business?  I might actually refer this one to Nora here who is our controller.
The accounting for the life business you are basically amortizing off the discount.
And so that number is pretty said and let you change assumptions somewhere along the line.
So I think it was about $8 million or so the expense in the quarter.
Barring anything unusual that is about what we would expect it to be over the next three quarter and you can – I think of it sort of like interest expense.
It is just amortization of the discount on those life reserves.
On that life liability  And I guess the revenue associated with the assets in that business show up elsewhere in your -- That was received years ago.
Keep in mind you have received the revenue and put them on the books and now you are just amortizing off the discount   We do earn some investment income while we are   Quite a bit.
There is that The investment income is what I am saying.
That shows up elsewhere.
It’s showing up in the investment segment.
Got it.
That makes sense.
Very good.
I have got a couple other – let me stop here if there’s no other questions I will buzz back in Thanks Jay.
There are no other questions at this time.
Jay would you like to ask your additional questions.
Yes.
If you do not mind.
The question had to do with going through a process is this year where you – I will phrase it rebasing the Alterra reserves to fitted more with your own approach.
And I remember the exact same thing happening with Tera Nova.
And that worked out really well.
Over time you ended up moving the reserves out of that business.
My question is how long do you believe this process would take to get these reserves on to again your approach was setting reserves? Well Jay that is in some ways unanswerable and I know that is a non-answer but the issue you have is we did a lot due diligence around the reserves on Alterra’s balance sheet when we thought them and we felt that they were adequate.
Maybe even slightly redundant but not to the levels that we at Markel tend to carry.
As we go forward we are building a margin of safety on the premium that we earn or we are attempting to build the margin and safety on the premium that we earn going forward on Alterra.
The question is going to be how do those reserves that we were on the balance sheet on day one behave? If they behave well it will take us less time if we have a little development out of them.
It will take us longer.
In general and if you remember back to Terra Nova it takes – I will say three to four years to really on a balance sheet the size of Alterra’s it take I would think about three to four years for us to feel good about those reserves the way we feel good about legacy Markel reserves.
And then I seem to recall that three to four years playing out with Terra Nova.
I guess I thought possibly this might be shorter in that when you bout Terra Nova it was a very difficult time in the industry right.
Reserves for a lot of companies were quite short where I would have suspected that Alterra’s reserves given the industry conditions were in better shape than Terra Nova’s were back in 2001 or whatever that was? I think that is a fair assumption.
And we are a little over – we are a year into this.
The deal closed May 1<sup>st</sup> a year ago.
Things have gone well in the first year but some of these reserves are long tail and I would like more time to look at them.
I hope you are right.
And I would like to see it be less than that three to four.
I would rather underpromise and over deliver.
If that happens we are all very happy.
Yes some of you guys have done historically.
I appreciate those answers thank you.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Great.
Well thank you for joining us.
We look forward to chatting with you next quarter.
Bye bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Tom Gayner; President and Chief Investment Officer from Markel Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner.
You may begin.
Thank you so much.
Good morning and welcome everybody to the Markel Corporation second quarter conference call.
I’m glad that you are here with us and we look forward discussing our results from the first half of 2014 as well as our thoughts about the business.
Joining me this morning is Anne Waleski our Chief Financial Officer who will review the overall financial results for the Corporation.
Mike Crowley is unable to be with us this morning so my Co-President Richie Whitt will cover all of the insurance operations.
Then I'll return to discuss our investments and Markel Ventures activities.
Before we get started with the business of call we will proceed with the (inaudible) known as the Safe Harbor statement.
During our call today we may make forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statements in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation of GAAP these measures in Form 10-Q.
With that let me turn it over to Anne.
Thank you Tom.
And good morning everyone.
We had a solid first half of the year.
I think the numbers speak for themselves (inaudible) into the results.
Our total operating revenues grew 35% to $2.5 billion in 2014 compared to $1.9 billion in the first half of 2013.
The increase is due to the inclusion of six months of underwriting revenues from legacy Alterra product offerings in 2014.
Higher revenue from the Hagerty business and higher investment income due to our larger investment portfolio.
Also contributing to the increase other revenues were up 15% to $380 million from $330 million of last year primarily due to revenue growth within Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results gross written premiums were $2.7 billion for the first half of 2014 compared to $1.8 billion in 2013 an increase of 47% due to including six months of premiums from legacy Alterra products in 2014 versus two months of legacy Alterra premium in 2013.
Net written premiums were $2.2 billion in the first six months of 2014 up 40% from the prior year and earned premiums increased 42% to $1.9 billion for the same reasons I just mentioned.
Net retention was down in 2014 at 82% compared to 86% in 2013.
The decrease which is in line with our expectations is primarily due to higher use of reinsurance on certain insurance products previously underwritten by Alterra.
Our consolidated combined ratio for the first six months was 98% for both 2014 and 2013.
However as a reminder the 2013 combined ratio included transaction and other acquisition related costs of approximately $62 million or almost five points related to the acquisition of Alterra.
The combined ratio in 2013 also included approximately $25 million or two points of catastrophe losses.
Excluding the impact of catastrophes and transaction and acquisition related costs from the 2013 combined ratio the combined ratio for 2014 increased six points compared to last year.
The increase was primarily due to less favorable development on prior year loss reserves in 2014 compared to 2013 less favorable development of prior year loss reserves is primarily attributable to our U.S.
insurance segment due in part to adverse development on our architects and engineers and brokers excess and umbrella product line.
Additionally prior year losses for the six months ended June 30 2014 include $27 million of unfavorable development on asbestos and environmental exposures within our Other Insurance Discontinued Lines segment.
There was no unfavorable development during the six months ended June 30 2013.
The consolidated combined ratio for the first six months of 2014 included approximately $167 million of favorable development from prior year loss reserves compared to $204 million of favorable development for the same period in 2013.
The benefit of the favorable development on prior year loss reserves had less of an impact on the combined ratio in 2014 than in 2013 due to higher earned premium volumes in 2014.
I will take a minute now and discuss our on asbestos and environmental reserve review which we completed in the second quarter for 2014.
Typically we complete an annual review of asbestos and environmental exposures during the third quarter of the year unless circumstances suggest an earlier review if appropriate.
This year we saw unexpected activity on a small number of claims early in the year which we believe warranted accelerating our annual review.
During this year’s review we increased our expectation of the severity of the outcome of certain claims subject to litigation and as a result increased prior year loss reserves by $27 million.
During our 2013 annual review which was completed during the third quarter of last year our expectation of the severity of the outcome of claims known at such time also increased.
As a result prior year loss reserves asbestos and environmental exposures increased by $28 million during the third quarter of 2013.
The need to increase the asbestos and environmental losses in each of the past three years demonstrate that these reserves are subject to significant uncertainty and volatility resulting from an unpredictable and unfavorable legal climate.
Excluding the impact of transaction and acquisition related costs from 2013 decreased in the consolidated expense ratio in the first half of 2014 was driven by higher earned premiums in each of our ongoing operating segments compared to a year ago.
Now I'll talk about the reserves of Markel Ventures.
During the first six months of 2014 revenues from Markel Ventures were $355 million compared to $314 million a year ago.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was just over $5 million in 2014 compared to $10.5 million for the same period in 2013.
EBITDA was $35 million in 2014 compared to $40 million in 2013.
For the six months ended June 30 2014 higher revenues attributable to our acquisition of Eagle Construction were partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our manufacturing operations as a result of fewer shipments and orders in the first half of 2014 compared to 2013.
Net income to shareholders and EBITDA from our Markel Ventures operations decreased for the first six months of 2014 compared to the same period of 2013 primarily due to less favorable results in our manufacturing operations partially offset by favorable impact from our acquisition of Eagle Construction.
Turning to our investment results.
Investment income was $179 million for the first half of 2014 compared to $143 million in the same period last year.
Net investment income for 2014 was net of $33 million in amortization expense from adjusting Alterra’s fixed maturity securities to a new amortized cost basis at the acquisition date.
The benefit of holding a larger portfolio was partially offset by lower yields.
Net realized investment gains for the period were $26 million compared to $34 million a year ago included within net realized gains for $1 million of other than temporary impairments as compared to $4.6 million in 2013.
Looking at our total results for the year our projected expected tax rate was 24% in the first half of 2014 compared to 28% a year ago.
The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2014 is due to anticipating a larger tax benefit related to tax exempt investment income in 2014 as compared to 2013.
We reported net income to shareholders of $128 million in the first half of 2014 compared to $117 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income was $481 million for the first six months of 2014 compared to $109 million a year ago.
And as a result book value per share as of the end of June 2014 was $511.28 an increase of 7% since the end of 2013.
Finally I will make a couple of comments about cash flows and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $237 million for the first six months of 2014 compared to $240 million for the same period of 2013 the decrease is due to higher tax payments for our international operations partially offset by higher cash flows from underwriting and investing activities due to the inclusion of Alterra.
With that I will turn it over to Ritchie to talk about the insurance operations.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning everyone.
I am going to talk about our U.S.
Insurance International Insurance and Reinsurance segments today.
As discussed last quarter U.S.
Insurance segment comprised of all direct business and [faculty and] places written on our U.S.
insurance companies and include all of the underwriting results of our wholesale and specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our global insurance division.
Year-to-date gross written premiums in the U.S.
Insurance segment have increased 19% as of the prior year.
The increase was due in large part to Alterra lines of business that are now included in this segment.
Excluding these lines premium volume is approximately 5% mainly driven by higher volumes from the Hagerty business which was mainly 2013.
In addition to growth in our casualty environmental and other lines which more than offset decreases in our brokerage property writings.
The combined ratio for the first six months of 2014 was 98% compared to 92% in 2013.
As Anne said the increase in the segment combined ratio was driven by less favorable development on prior exited year loss reserves due impart to adverse development in the architects and engineers and on excess and umbrella lines of business.
Partially offsetting this impact was a lower year-over-year expense ratio.
The improvement in the expense ratio was primarily due to higher earned premiums from including the legacy Alterra product as well as the Hagerty product lines in 2014 versus 2013.
Market conditions remain competitive for the wholesale and specialty divisions however we continue to achieve rate increases during the second quarter in the 2% to 3% range which was actually slightly up from the first quarter.
Market conditions in the global insurance division remained extremely challenging with rate decreases in most classes.
Property business and large casualty accounts are the most competitive and they're showing the largest rate decreases in our global insurance division.
Both our wholesale and specialty divisions continue to work to reduce their overall producer base allowing our underwriter and staff to focus on those producers that are giving us the best opportunities to write profitable business.
In a competitive market such of this it's important to code our best opportunities and not spend time practice coding.
Moving on to International Insurance the segment includes all direct and facultative business written on our non-U.S.
insurance companies and comprises the insurance underwriting results of our Markel international division as well as that portion of our global insurance division underwriting results written on our non-U.S.
insurance companies.
During the first half of 2014 gross written premiums in the International Insurance segment increased 20% to 653 million and the combined ratio improved 5 points coming into the 93.
The increase in premium writing is primarily due to the global insurance division which was created after our acquisition of Alterra and contributed six months of business in 2014 compared to the two months that were contributed in 2013.
The improvement in the segment’s combined ratio was driven by 6 points improvement in expense ratio and the lower current accident year loss ratio partially offset by less favorable development of prior exit year loss reserve.
As a reminder last year’s expense ratio for the first six months included approximately 3 points of costs associated with the Alterra acquisition.
Additionally the 2014 expense ratio was favorably impacted by higher earned premiums from the global insurance line of business which carry the lower expense ratio due to lower acquisition costs.
The impact of higher earned premiums from the global insurance division however had an unfavorable impact on our current exit year loss ratio since the global insurance product offering generally have a higher attritional loss ratio than the other products in the international segment.
To finish up I would like to discuss the results for our reinsurance segment which includes all 3D reinsurance programs written across our company either by our global reinsurance division or the Markel International division.
Gross written premiums for this segment were 793 million for the first six months of ‘14 which is up from 241 million a year ago.
The increase in premium writings was primarily due again to including six months of writings of products previously written by Alterra in 2014 compared to only two months of writings included in our 2013 results.
The combined ratio for this segment for the first months was 97 compared to 118 last year last year combined ratio include approximately 12 points of catastrophe losses there is really no significant catastrophe losses in this year’s results and approximately 19 points of cost associated with the acquisition of Alterra.
Excluding these two items the increase in the segment’s combined ratio in ‘14 is due to higher contributions of premiums from products previously written by Alterra.
Alterra’s reinsurance portfolio included a significant portion of casualty reinsurance while the legacy Markel portfolio was largely property reinsurance.
Casualty reinsurance by its nature is inherently more volatile and there is a long tail product and as such the impact of applying Markel’s more conservative loss reserving philosophy had a more significant impact on ‘14 compared to the ‘13 numbers.
Reinsurance market conditions are without a doubt the most challenging of any areas of the insurance marketplace.
Pricing is down in most reinsurance lines of business.
And this is clearly being led by property reinsurance where rates are down anywhere from 10% to 30% in some cases.
Summing up all the results of Markel’s insurance operations we had a good start to the year a good first half of the year.
Despite competitive market conditions we believe the Markel brand our strong balance sheet and more meaningful market position has produced and will continue to produce additional profitable underwriting opportunities for Markel.
At this point I will turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
As we noted before one of the great things about Markel is that we’ve got several methods to build the value of this company for you as our shareholders.
Insurance; investments; our industrial and service businesses; and capital management activities all work together to produce comprehensive income and value for you.
As is usually the case not every cylinder in the engine of Markel would be firing at the same rate.
The good news is that with our multiple cylinders the engine is moving the car down the road at a pretty good rate of speed.
Specifically as Anne noted earlier as shows up in the speedometer as comprehensive income of about $480 million plus through the first half an increase of 7.2% of the book value per share.
For longer term and more meaningful and [enrollment] sizable rate of return our compound annual growth rate of book value per share continues to maintain and was 13% as of June 30.
During the first half of 2014 we enjoyed excellent returns in our investment activity.
The total return from the portfolio was 4.6% with equities up 8.6% and fixed income up 3.5% both of these measurements are more than satisfactory on an absolute and relative basis.
And I would be happy to sign up for them definitely in the future.
If that option is not available so we continue to come to work every day and make the best decisions we know how to make of these good results going forward.
That we have done for a long time and I am confident that our client tested investment discipline will continue to work well for even our shareholders.
I am also happy to report to you that recasting of the investment portfolio we picked up in the Alterra acquisition is largely complete.
We have reset the fixed income portfolio largely eliminated the high cost alternative investment activities and continued the process of building up the equity investments in keeping with our traditional investment discipline.
As of June 30th equities represented 51% of shareholders’ equity up from 48% at year end and we continue to methodically build the equity portfolio.
We have enjoyed roughly 700 basis-point addition to our total return when we allocate money equities compared to fixed income over the last 25 years.
We will look to continue to maximize the amount of equity exposure that we can given our comprehensive view of the state of our business our balance sheet position and the opportunities we’ve got.
Turning to Markel Ventures we picked up steam in the second quarter after a slow start in the first part of the year.
Revenues rose 13% from $313 million to $354 million.
More importantly our share of EBITDA from the Markel Ventures operations was $35.1 million a decline of 13% from the $40.3 million we earned in the first half of 2013.
For the second quarter EBITDA was flat at $21 million versus $21 million a year ago.
As we stated before the manufacturing operations within our Ventures Group are lumpy businesses where big orders come irregularly and make a big difference on the bottom-line.
The first half of 2013 was a particularly robust period and the first half of 2014 was a bit light.
Fortunately we picked up steam in the second quarter compared to the first the order books are in pretty good shape and I am optimistic about the balance of the year.
Also I am pleased to announce that after the quarter ended we completed the acquisition of Cottrell the leading manufacturer of car hauling.
The initial consideration for Cottrell is $130 million and this is the largest transaction yet for Markel Ventures.
With the addition of Cottrell the run rate of the Markel Ventures companies now round to $1 billion.
I continue to expect double-digit EBITDA profitability from the group and this is becoming a more meaningful contributor to the earnings and the value of Markel.
We continue to see and review a meaningful number of opportunities for Markel Ventures.
We’re picky about choosing our partners and we’ve got the alternative of publicly traded equity securities privately held businesses and our own stock as the only choices for how we allocate capital.
To sum it up those of us seating around this table have two jobs: One we got to run our existing businesses through best of our ability and earn good returns on the capital; Second we’ve got to make good capital allocation decisions with the money we make from doing job one.
I am pleased to report that we're producing good results for you on both fronts and we look forward to challenge of continuing to do so.
With that we’re delighted to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Mark Hughes from SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning everyone.
This is Rob Myers on for Mark Hughes.
Two questions one is just in favorable prior year loss development we saw in the quarter.
Is that kind of a blip or is this something we should expect to continue going forward? Mark I think we've said in years past that history does not dictate the future particularly in this arena.
So creating an expectation around prior year reserves based on history is not something we typically encourage.
That said what we would expect for this year is something that will slightly less than last year or but not dramatically less.
So I think some of the adverse developments that you saw this quarter we're hoping that we have taken care of this quarter and won't repeat.
Okay.
Thank you that's very helpful.
And then lastly just wondering if you guys had an update on pricing competition loss trends in med mal workers comp space? This is Ritchie Rob.
In terms of med mal now still a pretty tough market right now.
Just looking at our most recent rate monitoring and we're slugging it out and giving a couple of percentage points price increase on that business but it's incredibly competitive.
In terms of workers comp that's probably the strongest part of the market and I didn't mention that in my comments.
But in workers comp or sort of probably mid-single-digits in terms of increases on workers comp business and in California that should be significantly more depending on the class and depending on the geography in California.
So those two markets are sort of better end of the scale of where various products are in the industry.
Okay thank you very much for taking my questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
A couple of questions I guess the first one is on the reinsurance segment and you guys have been very upfront about moving the old Alterra business on to your reserving methodology and that’s put some near-term upward pressure on loss ratio that’s seen that with past deals so it’s not surprising.
I guess looking forward in that business maybe we had potential opposing forces one is the market conditions all else being equal which suggest loss ratio get worse at the same time as you kind have already moved this business or at some point moved this business into your own reserving methodology to expect to see some improvement down the line.
My question is do you think you can hold those margins flat or will the pricing dynamics kind of overwhelm whatever changes you are making on the reserve side?  Jay obviously reinsurance is incredibly competitive right now to the extent we are still writing accounts we believe the pricing supports the margins we want to produce on the business.
And honestly at this point I am not particularly I am pleased with the business we have put on the books this year the big question to me what’s going to happen next year January 1 and forward.
If people are looking for price concessions next year I am not sure that it’s there I think this market should be quite honestly at the bottom where people are being disciplined about what they are doing.
So I feel very good about the business we’ve put on the books this year I feel good about what we believe the margins are going to be.
As you know as you say we've been putting Markel's sort of level of conservatism and margin of safety on the reserves.
So everything I feel good about everything this year the unknowable is where does the market go from here I believe we re-ensure that given all we can give it will be interesting to see what the competition is willing to do as we go into ‘15? Let's hope we find some sort of floor.
The other question I had was regarding the comment about I guess calling to some extent the producer base within wholesale and specialty.
What’s the outcome of that I mean should we expect because of that action top line growth to slow down? No when we - you are always managing the producer base and we're always trying to it's sort of 80-20 role it's interesting that top 20% of your producers probably give you 80% of your business.
And then you've got to decide with that the rest of the group do they have potential to move into that other group or do you need to move on and spend your time elsewhere.
So you are always managing the producer base.
Our in the past what we've seen is when we focused more on the people who truly are producing the business for us volume goes up.
We don't tend to take a step back we tend to continue to move forward and in fact we are seeing when you back out what's happening on the property book we are pricing where we had to reduce because of pricing.
We're up in most of the other lines of business in wholesale and in the lines where we're not in some sort of pricing actions on specialty again we’re seeing decent growth.
So no I think it’s just a healthy thing that we’re always doing and I think we’ll continue to see modest growth as we go forward.
That’s helpful.
And thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Couple of questions did you have any losses that you’re identifying as catastrophe losses in the quarter? Nothing to note.
Any even uptick at all in weather related or non-cap losses that is worth highlighting? Nothing at all worth highlighting.
Nothing that we -- you have a threshold for a name catastrophe Mark and really we did not have anything that would have hit threshold for any of the named cats.
So it was a very quite first half for the year no it’s not that we didn’t have some attritional losses we certainly did but nothing that rose to a level of significance.
Okay.
A question for Tom it is just nothing able to hear and write quickly enough question in the context of Markel Ventures you said that something is now at a $1 billion rate or amount what was that thing? The revenue lines going forward of the entire Markel Ventures group.
Got it.
Thank you.
And my last question now that we’ve -- now that you’ve had Alterra for a full year the amount of premium that you retained from that franchise how does that compare relative to your very initial expectations? From my perspective it seems like relatively more premium which retains and then maybe was initially expected but interested in your thoughts? Mark this is Richie.
Yes I’d agree with you.
I would say we've retained more of the premium than we would have expected initially.
I think if you look at our 10-Q we have a pro forma gross written premium numbers in there for the quarter and year-to-date and I think actually in the quarter we were ahead of that pro forma number and for the six months we were basically flat to that number which -- some of that is growth in legacy Markel products but I have been very pleased with the amount of premium we held on to from the acquired products of Alterra.
Would you say that the underlying quality of the book has been better than initial expectations or it's just the way the market conditions have developed allowed you to retain perhaps more than you might would have initially judged? I think the quality has been about what we thought when we went into the deal.
I think the most important thing in any acquisition and I think I’ve said this before on the call is being able to keep the talent keep the people.
And we have done a very nice job there people have stayed.
And I think I contribute the success we have had to the fact that the talent has stayed with us.
I think the quality of the business is about what we assume.
Mark I would add one point to that.
And that is the marketplace acceptance of Markel which is a bigger balance sheet that has the talent that Richie spoke of that has gone well.
We didn't exactly know how the pencil and paper that going into it but we certainly believe that the current entity will be more abstracted as an insurance partners (inaudible) world and that's really to be the case.
Yes that's a really good point that Tom makes.
People like to talk about synergies and acquisitions and we try to take away from those words.
But it is fair to say we’ve seen a number of large accounts particularly on the reinsurance side and then the global insurance side where the Markel brand and the balance sheet strength and the relationship that Markel has throughout the industry has made a difference in terms of business coming to us.
So clearly that has happened.
Okay.
Thanks very much for the insights.
Good quarter thanks.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Gold from Scott &amp; Stringfellow.
Please proceed with your question.
Tom hoping you would go through an exercise with me and get out to the back of an envelope and it's a Markel venture question.
Now the run rate and revenue is $1 billion dollars looking at the 2015 let’s say if the -- and also factoring in that the metrics you were looking at when you bought companies was roughly six to seven times EBITDA.
So the assumptions I would use on the back of my envelope would be next year’s revenue funds in acquisition $1.1 billion that the companies we bought may not have lived up to the six or seven times EBITDA so I use eight times.
So I multiply the 1.1 times 12.5 and get $137.5 million of EBITDA and bringing half of that to the bottom line in net income and get just under $5 per share in earnings on an annual basis.
Is that in the right ballpark or am I thinking incorrect?  I think I will go home and say 2015 is done.
Your back of the envelope and thought process is directionally correct.
The thing that we can’t take for granted is that these things are always easier to say than they are to do so there will be immense amount of work to make that happen.
But those sort of rough rough back of the envelope calculations are directionally correct.
Thank you sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes I guess just maybe a follow-up on Markel Ventures.
I am looking at simple calculation just the margin on a non-manufacturing businesses.
And they went down fairly dramatically from first half ‘13 to first half ‘14 and I don’t know if that’s a business mix issue some of the different businesses but I am wondering if there is a reason why they went down so much?  Right.
On the non-manufacturing margins I don’t have the numbers in front of me but directionally what will be happening is probably biggest swing is in our healthcare area.
And there are two things going on there.
One the immense changes that are happening in the healthcare area have proven to be tougher challenges than what I would have expected to begin with.
We are addressing them; we are making the best we can of it.
But let’s just say that that has been a more of a challenge than what I expected.
Second within the healthcare there are things that we are doing where we are funding and we have our foot on the gas to grow rather quickly.
And we are expensing new office openings this is specifically the [realm of partner MD] incurring front-end expense that we think produces wonderful returns on investment.
But we’re spending that money right now.
And realistically I would say it’s this time next year before we just start to see whether those initiatives are indeed bearing the fruit that we expect from them.
And the bottom-line just like in the insurance business either they will be bearing the fruit that we expect or will stop doing it one or the other.
Got it.
And then the question on the reserves.
So the adverse development and the architect and engineers book and the excess and umbrella lines what were some of the key underlying trends that you were seeing that drove that change? Is this a severity issue? And so one what were the trends? And two were there any particular classes of business within the excess and umbrella area? In terms of -- I’ll start with architect.
It’s a relative small line of business for us.
And I think if you were to go around and look at the industry everybody has been struggling a little bit with the architect probably since 2008 with the credit crisis; architects and engineers got pulled into a lot of new and different ways of seeking recovery post 2008.
So it’s then when we’ve been chasing a little bit and the bottom-line is we’ll lead it get it right or we’re going to write a whole lot less architects in starting and we don't write a whole lot to start with but it could be a whole lot less if we don't feel like we're getting the right rate for it.
On excess and umbrella that class has been a terrific class for quite a while we’ve seen a little bit early developments recently and we’ve probably seen some auto losses which is not surprising and we intend to see some heavy auto in excess number.
But we’ve seen a little bit of auto losses and we’ve seen a little bit early losses.
The team again is on top of it and we’re making some changes to address it and again we need to get it straight or premium volume will decrease.
Okay great.
And I think you’re pretty proactive in that book? We try to be.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of David West from Davenport.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
In the other revenue other expense tables on the insurance side have your MGA operations and then the line item life and annuity and I thought most of the Alterra life and annuity within discontinued operations.
Can you dig down and tell me what that life and annuity line is associated with? David it is in discontinued.
And it is related to the Alterra discontinued life and annuity book.
It’s just not underwriting.
Okay.
Right.
Right.
And I guess on the revenue side I don’t have the schedule in front of me but revenue side would just be some small premium adjustments I think it’s a relatively small number that tax goes it will be a few thousand dollars each quarter they always are constantly adjusting premiums.
And then on the expense side that’s just the amortization the accretion of the discount on those life and annuity reserves.
So that will be a feature which shows up from now for the next 50 years on a decreasing basis.
Got it okay.
Decreasing basis that’s encouraging.
Right right.
It’s just that … All right.
Thanks very much.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to hand the call back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate to joining us.
We look forward to chatting with you next question.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this does concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Tom Gayner President and Chief Investment Officer.
Thank you Tom.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you and welcome.
We’re glad that you’re with us and we look forward to discussing our results from the first nine months of 2014 as well as our thoughts on the business.
Anne Waleski our Chief Financial Officer will review the overall financial results and my co-Presidents Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt will then cover our insurance operations.
And then I’ll return to discuss our investments and Markel Ventures activities.
Before we get started I’ll remind you of the Safe Harbor Statement.
As a reminder comments made on today’s call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risks.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in our – or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the full disclosure regarding the risks that my affect Markel which may be found in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
With that let me turn things over to Anne.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to report that the positive momentum that we experienced in the first half of 2014 has continued into the third quarter.
Our financial results for the first nine months of the year are very solid.
We produced underwriting profits in all three ongoing insurance segments and continue to align the legacy Alterra reserves with the Markel’s reserving philosophies.
Markel Ventures completed the acquisition of Cottrell Inc.
during the period and continues to look for profitable growth opportunities.
Our total operating revenues grew 25% to $3.8 billion in 2014 compared to $3 billion in the first nine months of 2013.
The most significant drivers of this increase continues to be inclusion of nine months of underwriting revenues from legacy Alterra product offerings in 2014 higher revenues from the Hagerty business and higher investment income fees [ph] through our larger investment portfolio.
Also contributing to the increase other revenues were up 25% to $630 million from $505 million last year primarily due to revenue growth within Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results gross written premiums were $3.8 billion in 2014 compared to $2.9 billion in 2013 an increase of 30%.
Net written premiums were $3.1 billion in the first nine months of 2014 up 28% from the prior year.
And earned premiums increased 26% to $2.9 billion.
These increases were driven by the inclusion of nine months of premiums from the legacy Alterra products in 2014 compared to five months of legacy Alterra premium in 2013.
Net retention was down slightly in 2014 at 82% compared to 83% in 2013.
The slight decrease which is in line with our expectations is primarily due to higher use of reinsurance on certain insurance products previously underwritten by Alterra.
Our consolidated combined ratio for the first nine months was a 97% in both periods 2014 and 2013.
As a reminder the 2013 combined ratio included transaction and other acquisition related costs of approximately $70 million or three points related to the acquisition of Alterra.
The combined ratio in 2013 also included approximately $32 million or one point of catastrophe losses.
Excluding the impact of catastrophe and transaction and acquisition related costs from the 2013 combined ratio the combined ratio for 2014 increased four points compared to the prior year.
This increase was primarily due to less favorable development on prior year loss reserves in 2014 compared to 2013.
The consolidated combined ratio for the nine months ended September 30 2014 included approximately 200 – the benefit of the favorable development on prior year loss reserves had less of an impact on combined ratio in 2014 than in 2013 due to higher earned premium volume in all three of our ongoing underwriting segments in 2014.
In addition the U.S.
insurance segment had less favorable development due in part to adverse development on our architects and engineers product line in 2014 and less favorable development on Hurricane Sandy in 2014 compared to 2013.
Now I’ll move to the results of Markel Ventures.
During the first nine months of 2014 revenues from Markel Ventures were $595 million compared to $486 million a year ago.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was just over $16 million in 2014 compared to $18 million for the same period in 2013.
EBITDA was $66 million in 2014 compared to $64 million in 2013.
For the nine months ended September 30 2014 revenues were higher than the same period a year ago due to our acquisitions of Cottrell in 2014 and Eagle Construction in 2013.
Likewise EBITDA from our Markel Ventures operations increased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to the acquisitions of Cottrell and Eagle partially offset by less favorable results in our existing manufacturing operations.
Moving to our investment results investment income was $270 million for the first nine months of 2014 compared to $229 million in the same period last year.
The benefit of holding a larger portfolio was partially offset by lower yields.
Net realized investment gains for the period were $29 million compared to $41 million a year ago.
Included in net realized gains were $3.9 million of other than temporary impairments as compared to $4.6 million in 2013.
Looking at our total results for the year the net tax provided by operating activities was $537 million for the first nine months of 2014 compared to $543 million for the same period of 2013.
The decrease is due to higher tax payments for our international operations partially offset by higher cash flows from investment income in underwriting activities due to the inclusion of Alterra.
Our projected effective tax rate was 25% in the first nine months of 2014 compared to 28% a year ago.
The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2014 is primarily due to anticipating a larger tax benefit related to tax exempt investment income and a decrease in the estimated foreign earnings subject to U.S.
tax in 2014 as compared to 2013.
We reported net income to shareholders of $204 million in the first nine months of 2014 compared to $182 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income was $517 million for the first nine months of 2014 compared to $253 million a year ago.
Book value per share at the end of September 2014 was $514 an increase of 8% since the end of 2013.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mike to talk about the U.S.
insurance segment.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
The U.S.
insurance segment as we pointed out before comprises all direct business written on our U.S.
insurance companies and includes all the underwriting results of our wholesale and specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our global insurance team.
For the third quarter gross written premium was up 3% over prior year.
Year-to-date gross written premiums have increased 13% over prior year.
This increase was due in large part to the Alterra lines of business that are now included in this segment.
Excluding these lines premium volume is up 5%.
Keep in mind that we have been exiting or re-underwriting some lines in our specialty and wholesale divisions and this has impacted growth.
The combined ratio for the quarter was 95% for both 2014 and 2013.
The combined ratio for the year was 97% as compared to 94% in 2013.
As Anne pointed out the higher insurance segment combined ratio was driven by less favorable development of prior losses due in part to adverse development in the architects and engineers line of business.
Partially offsetting this impact was a lower year-over-year expense ratio.
The improvement in the expense ratio was due to higher contribution of earned premiums from the legacy Alterra in 2014 than in 2013 and due to non-reoccurring transaction costs reported in 2013 associated with the Alterra acquisition.
The rate environment in the U.S.
segment remains competitive.
However we continue to achieve modest single-digit rate increases on small to medium sized risks across the various divisions within the segment.
Large accounts remain under competitive pressure and prices for property and casualty lines on Fortune 1000 business remained soft.
Operationally during the quarter we combined our Atlanta and Richmond specialty program units under one management team and we expect this reorganization to improve our results in 2015 from both an underwriting and expense perspective.
Also in the specialty division year-to-date data revealed benefits from our initiatives to cross-sell and round accounts between FirstComp and Markel specialty programs.
566 accounts have added additional coverages through this rounding effort.
In our wholesale division we continue to see strong growth in our Binding P&amp;C environmental and excess and umbrella lines.
Our E&amp;S executive team had a very busy NAPSLO holding over 350 face-to-face meetings with our wholesale partners.
We continue to grow with our top wholesalers and this meeting provides the opportunity for an intense few days of one-on-ones.
All five wholesale regions volume is up year-to-date.
Also our specialty and global and executive teams attended the annual CIAB conference which like NAPSLO allows us to meet [ph] face-to-face with many of our key brokers and agents.
The broad array of Markel products in both large and small accounts has made us an attractive alternative for many agents.
Gerry Albanese our Executive Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer presided over a number of product line leadership meetings during the quarter.
These meetings were attended by our most senior underwriters and they provide a platform for communication between our underwriting leaders and our regional operations as we finalize business plans and budgets for 2015.
In summary we remain focused on those same key objectives that have driven us throughout 2014 – reassessment of some lines of business expense reduction and control attraction of talent and aggressive sales and marketing.
I’ll now turn the call over to Richie.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Following on from comments by Anne and Mike I’d sum up the first nine months of the year in Markel’s underwriting operations as solid or business as usual.
I think this is a really important statement when we consider that we are establishing consistent with our historical practices a loss reserve margin and safety on legacy Alterra business.
Turning specifically to the results of the international insurance and reinsurance segments the international insurance segment which includes business written by our Markel International division as well as that written by our Global Insurance division has performed well so far this year.
During the nine months of 2014 gross written premiums in the international insurance segment increased 13% to $653 million.
The combined ratio was 95% compared to 92% in the prior year.
The increase in premium writings is primarily due to the Global Insurance division which was created after the acquisition of Alterra and contributed nine months of business in 2014 compared to only five months of business in 2013.
The higher segment combined ratio was driven by a higher current accident year loss ratio partially offset by a favorable expense ratio.
The improvement in expense ratio was due to transaction costs of the Alterra merger back in 2013 and higher earned premiums from the Global Insurance division which carry a lower expense ratio.
Now I’ll turn to the reinsured segments which includes reinsurance programs written by our Global Reinsurance division as well as that written by our Markel International division.
Gross written premiums for this segment were $999 million for the first nine months of 2014 and that was up from $443 million a year ago.
The increase in premium writes is primarily due to including nine months of writing from products previously written by Alterra in 2014 compared to five months of writing in ‘13.
The combined ratio for the reinsurance segment was a 97%.
This compared to a 108% last year.
Last year’s combined ratio included seven points of catastrophe losses really very minor catastrophe losses this year really of the attritional nature I would say.
And approximately 10 times [ph] points of non-recurring cost associated with the acquisition of Alterra.
Operationally during the quarter and the first nine months of the year we recently announced that Dave Kalainoff will be retiring from Markel Re in June of next year and that Jed Rhoads will be taking over responsibility for all of Markel Re.
I can’t thank Dave enough for all that he’s done to ensure the smooth transition of Alterra Reinsurance operations into our Markel Re division.
Also I know Jed will do a fantastic job leading our reinsurance team into the future.
Markel International’s integration of its Abbey acquisition continues to go well.
We’ve added marketing and sales resources as well as some new product capabilities to the Abbey team.
Abbey is a wonderful franchise and with the additional resources that Markel can bring to the table we believe that solid growth is possible.
As Mike said all areas of the P&amp;C market remains competitive.
The only difference really is the degree to which they’re competitive.
The International Insurance and Reinsurance segments are probably among the most competitive in the market today.
We’re in the process of completing budgets and plans for 2015 and borrowing [ph] any significant market changes organic growth is going to be difficult to come by in 2015.
As a result as Mike alluded to we’re focused on controlling our expenses providing efficiencies and emphasizing route [ph] selection and portfolio management.
In soft markets we will always choose underwriting discipline over growth.
Despite these difficult market conditions we still believe there are great opportunities available to us and believe we’ve built the platforms to pursue those opportunities.
With that I’d like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
My comments this morning will be brief since our news is good and straightforward.
I’m happy to answer any questions or cover any details when we get to the Q&amp;A.
On the investment side of the house we are 7.3% on our equity investments and 4.5% on our fixed income portfolio during the first nine months which produced a gross total return of 5.2%.
In the equity portfolio we continue to methodically add to our holdings steadily throughout the year.
Between purchases of roughly $300 million so far as well as appreciation [ph] of the portfolio we’ve now got roughly 52% of our shareholders’ capital invested in equities compared to 48% at yearend 2013.
We continue to have an unusual combination of investment ideas that we’re confident about positive cash flows from our insurance and ventures businesses and some sense of overall caution and weariness about the investment market overall.
The net effect of these cross-currents is that we continue to steadily dollar-cost average our way and into building positions.
We think that approach prudently protects our balance sheet and leaves us with the ability to being able to invest more money in equities as the opportunities present themselves.
Expect us to continue our steady consistent approach in building the equity portfolio.
In our fixed income operations we earned a total return of 4.5% as low interest rates that prevailed at the end of 2013 were under an even lower than both segs [ph] by the time we got to the end of September.
That meant we got some capital appreciation in the portfolio in addition to recurring interest income.
We remain cautious as we have been for multiple years about the balance between risks and rewards in bonds.
Long term rates just don’t have that much room between where they are in Europe [ph].
They have a lot of room between where they are and where I’ve seen them in my career.
Consequently we keep the duration of our bond portfolios a bit shorter than the duration of our insurance liabilities.
Including cash the duration stood at roughly four and a quarter years at September 30 and we do not plan to go longer than that in the current interest rate environment.
We also remain committed to safety first.
In addition to not stretching for yield by extending the duration we don’t stretch for it by reducing credit quality either.
97% of the portfolio is rated A or better but we don’t stop there and rely solely on grading agencies.
We do our own credit analysis on top of that to make sure that we are comfortable with the credit risk we take.
As always safety first.
In Markel Ventures we purchased Cottrell Industries during the third quarter.
Only five weeks of their results are included in our third quarter numbers and you’ll see more from them as well as the rest of the Markel Ventures companies in the fourth quarter.
Cottrell is the leading manufacturer of car holding trailers and equipment and we welcome them to the Markel family.
As we state in the Markel style we seek to be a market leader in each of our pursuits.
I can assure you that Cottrell fits that description as well as other elements of the Markel style.
From the nine months to date you could see the magnitudinal [ph] gains other revenues on our income statement of $630 million versus $459 million a year ago.
Anne gave you the portion for Markel Ventures and you can see the vast majority of those revenues and these relate to the Markel Ventures operations.
Our EBITDA from the group was $66 million versus $64 million in 2013 which is a much smaller percentage increase than the increase in revenues.
We got off to a close start in the first quarter of this year and have been making that ground ever since.
I assure you that I look forward to reporting the full year results.
If we add all of our activities together from insurance investing to Markel Ventures we get to the bottom line of comprehensive income.
Comprehensive income to the first nine months of Markel exceeded $0.5 billion.
As it shows in the Q in round numbers the drivers of comprehensive income came from pre-tax underwriting process of over $70 million pre-tax investment income and gains of about $300 million increased pre-tax unrealized gains from the portfolio of almost $350 million and pre-tax cash flows of over $70 million from Markel Ventures and non-cash and tangible amortization.
We then paid gobs of cashes [ph] and provided for the rest of what we owe [ph].
Some of those items comes from the $0.5 billion of comprehensive income we earned.
We’re pleased with that result and we hope you are as well.
Looking forward every insurance investment industrial and service business that we own or operate in faces challenging and competitive markets.
They always have and they always will.
Despite those facts we continue to produce solid returns for you as our shareholders and we expect to continue so that could be the case over time.
We’re grateful for the opportunity to do so and we now look forward to answering your questions.
With that John if you’d be so kind as to open the Q&amp;A period.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Vincent D’Agostino from KBW.
You may state your question.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Morning.
I’ll start off so last quarter you guys had talked about the reinsurance environment kind of theoretically being at bottom and everybody was being disappointed.
I’m just wondering if at this point there’s any change in kind of that assessment or if it’s one of these things where we have to really wait for one-one [ph] to play out before we can get a true test of if that’s kind of – if we’re going to be at bottom and potentially rebound or go lower.
This is Richie Vincent.
I think it’s a little early to say.
Like you say I think we’ve got to see what happens with the one-one renewal.
But a lot of people are talking about it being at the bottom.
I wouldn’t look for a bounce at this point.
I think there’s too much capital out there for there to be any sort of bounce.
If I had to guess you might just see a little more reduction but I just can’t imagine the kinds of reductions we’ve seen in the last two years.
And certainly if people were looking for those kinds of reduction at one-one we’ll probably be coming off with some business.
So it feels like we’re getting close to a bottom but I’d like to see those one-one renewals before I commit to that.
Okay good deal.
And then just to switch over two questions on the Markel Ventures side.
And Tom sorry if I missed this.
I know you said you look forward to kind of giving us the full year numbers but with Cottrell and Eagle just where roughly with those two businesses should put us on an annualized EBITDA and net income basis? Annualized EBITDA – I mean annualized run rate of the revenues should be a round number of $1 billion plus or minus.
There’s cyclicality to that and just looking into 2015.
And we would expect double-digit EBITDA earnings from that mixed collection of business.
Okay cool.
Thank you.
And then just – And [indiscernible] a lot of zeros involved there.
Good deal.
Just a theoretical question between the split and in terms of when you’re speaking with investors between Markel Ventures and [indiscernible] do you feel that you get more credit for the ventures income stream versus the public equities since on the ventures you don’t have to do the whole equity – look for earnings buyback? Yes.
All right.
Take care guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please state your question.
Yes good morning.
Just a few sort of numbers questions because as you said it was a pretty straightforward quarter.
In the discontinued line segment there was $6.8 million of adverse development was that just a true-up of the asbestos study from the second quarter or was it something different? No that’s actually some development that we saw on the discontinued businesses from the Alterra acquisition that occurred during the quarter.
Okay.
The figure for the remaining amortization of the premium in the investment portfolio is that number somewhere in the 10-Q? I haven’t found it if it is.
It’s not.
But given the – and I don’t have the number with me Mark.
But given the amount of the portfolio that we have turned over that the number that’s left has gotten smaller.
But I don’t have the specific number with me and it’s not in the Q.
Okay.
And then finally was there any meaningful amount of catastrophe loss across any of the businesses? I know Richie you mentioned in the reinsurance there was not.
Just asking on the other units.
Nothing to speak of.
No we always have a bit of an attritional amount of catastrophes built into our assumption.
And I would say it was even probably a light attritional quarter from that standpoint.
Okay.
Those are all my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please state your question.
Yes thank you.
In the reinsurance segment the expense ratio in the third quarter dropped I guess about four points from the first half.
In the Q you suggest there was an increase in experience-related funds or something.
I forget exactly the phrase.
But I’m wondering how much of an impact that had on the expense ratio in the quarter in the reinsurance segment.
Yes I would say the impact to the quarter was probably not significant.
So do you see the third quarter number as a reasonable run rate going forward because it’s about 30 versus – it was 34 in the first half.
Yes.
No I do not think that it is a reasonable run rate.
I think you can take the earlier quarters and use those.
This would be a non-recurring one-time adjustment that we make and then we’ll trend it going forward.
But I think you can use the earlier quarters’ indication.
That’s helpful.
And I guess for the overall company when you think about the expense ratio given the market conditions internationally and in reinsurance should we expect any improvement at all in the expense ratio going forward or should we just kind of assume it stays reasonably flat? Well this is Richie Jay.
Obviously we continue to work to reduce the expense ratio.
But it’s fair to say we don’t expect to have a whole lot of help in that effort from growth next year.
And as for growing the top line if the markets stay like this that’s going to be difficult.
So we’re going to have to do it the old-fashioned way which is spending less.
So admittedly it’s going to be difficult.
But if we have like 37 – Thirty-seven.
– a little over 37 this quarter I think that’s probably fair for next year and we’re going to work hard to see if we can reduce it.
That’s great.
If I could squeeze one more in.
Markel Ventures Tom as you had mentioned the improvement was pretty noticeable versus the first half.
And specifically in the manufacturing segment where the net income or GAAP income went from $4.5 million in the first quarter up to $21 million this quarter so pretty impressive.
Does seasonality play a role there and should we think about the third quarter again as a reasonable run rate going forward? Seasonality plays a small role but I would say it’s much more economically cyclical than what I would describe as seasonal.
And frankly the first quarter was low.
We were in the midst of integrating some acquisitions and there’s always a little bit of indigestion in process that’s connected with that.
And as we’ve gone through the year those issues are starting to resolve themselves and then we’re getting to a more normal basis.
I really would steer you towards EBITDA because given amortization purchase accounting and that sort of stuff the true cash that’s being produced by the business is best represented by the EBITDA and that’s what we hold the managers accountable for because they can’t control tax rate they’re very lightly levered we’re not borrowing a bunch of money.
So that really does describe the cash flows of the business.
Fair enough.
Thanks Tom.
Okay.
(Operator instructions) Management at this time there seems to be no more further questions.
Would you like to make any closing remarks? Thank you very much and we look forward to chatting with you next quarter.
Take care.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions].
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risks.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures in the press release which can be found on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information Section.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Gayner President and Chief Investment Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you.
Welcome to the 2014 year-end conference call for the Markel Corporation.
My name is Tom Gayner and I'm joined by Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt today.
We've got some good and fun results to share with you this morning and Anne will jump in with the numbers in just a second.
Before we get into the details though there is one thought I'd like to share with you mainly this.
A year ago when we had this call we and you would have been concerned about competitive conditions in the insurance markets with new capital providers continuing to enter the business.
We would have all been concerned about interest rates being low and the struggle to earn investment income.
We would have been concerned about the lack of premium leverage.
We would have been concerned about an equity market that was at all-time high and seemingly bereft of good values.
We would have all been concerned about the integration of the Alterra acquisition and we would have all been concerned about global geopolitical issues.
We probably would have had a similar list a year before that and a year before that and so on and so on.
Sometimes it seems like the issues we face at any given point in time sound like the long list of side effects that you hear in the drug commercials on TV.
There is always something to be concerned about.
But some of those issues let folks to model an outcome that suggested that the Markel Corporation would have a tough time earning more than a single-digit return on equity on a comprehensive basis.
Despite what the models said the very good news is that we are reporting a double-digit return of 14% in our book value per share this year.
Those results came about because of the hard work creativity and dedication of the people at Markel.
We will also acknowledge and be grateful for the good luck involving things like selective major catastrophes in 2014.
All of those concerns I just mentioned at the beginning were valid a year ago and most but not all of them remain relevant today.
When we look back at each year there always seems to be some reason why things are going to get worse.
Fortunately the people in this organization always seem to find a way to meet the challenges and keep building the value and values of this company.
I expect that to continue to be the case over time.
With that it is my pleasure to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Anne Waleski to review the numbers and then to Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt who will give you some commentary on our insurance operations.
I will then return to briefly discus Markel Ventures and our investment operations.
Then we will open the floor for Q&amp;A.
Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I too am happy to report that 2014 has been both an exciting and profitable year here at Markel.
We had an excellent finish to the year with our investing underwriting and Markel Ventures operations all contributing to our success.
Our total operating revenues grew 19% eclipsing $5 billion for the first time coming in it at $5.1 billion in 2014 from $4.3 billion in 2013.
The most significant drivers of this increase continue to be the inclusion of a full-year of underwriting revenues from legacy Alterra product offerings in 2014 higher revenue from the Hagerty business and higher investment income due to our larger investment portfolio.
Also contributing to the increase other revenues were up 24% to $883 million from $711 million last year primarily due to revenue growth within Markel Ventures.
Moving into the underwriting results in 2014 gross written premiums were $4.8 billion which is an increase of 23% compared to 2013.
The increase was driven by the inclusion of a full-year premiums from legacy Alterra products in 2014 compared to eight months in 2013 which impacted all three of our ongoing underwriting segments.
We also experienced growth in our U.S.
insurance segment within the wholesale division primarily in our casualty product lines and in our specialty division across various product lines.
Net written premiums for 2014 were approximately $3.9 billion up 21% from the prior year for the same reasons I just discussed.
Net retention of gross premium volume was 82% for 2014 and 83% for 2013.
This decrease in net retention was due to 12-months of premium contribution from Alterra in 2014 compared to eight months in 2013.
The slight decrease which is in line with our expectations is primarily due to higher use of reinsurance and certain insurance products previously underwritten by Alterra.
Earned premiums for 2014 increased 19% compared to 2013.
The increase was primarily driven by the increase in gross written premiums that I just mentioned.
Also contributing to the increase in earned premiums was higher earned premiums from our Hagerty business which we began writing in the first quarter of 2013.
The U.S.
Insurance segment included $203 million of earned premium from Hagerty in 2014 compared to $98 million in 2013.
The consolidated combined ratio was 95% in 2014 compared to 97% in 2013.
In 2014 the lower expense ratio was partially offset by a less favorable prior accident years' loss ratio compared to 2013.
Underwriting acquisition and insurance expenses in 2013 included transaction and other acquisition-related costs of $75 million attributable to the acquisition of Alterra or two points on the combined ratio.
Excluding transaction and other acquisition-related costs in 2013 the 2014 expense ratio was comparable to 2013.
The 2014 combined ratio included $436 million of favorable development on prior years' loss reserves compared to $411 million in 2013.
The benefit of the favorable development on prior years' loss reserves had less of an impact on the combined ratio in 2014 compared to 2013 due to higher earned premium volume in 2014.
Now we'll talk about the results of Markel Ventures.
In 2014 revenues from Markel Ventures were $838 million compared to $686 million in 2013.
Revenues around Markel Ventures operations increased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to the acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014 and the acquisition of Eagle Construction in August 2013.
We also experienced higher revenues in our manufacturing operations in 2014 primarily driven by cyclical changes in industry demand for transportation equipment partially offset by lower revenues in our other manufacturing operations due to fewer orders and shipments in 2014 as compared to 2013.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures was slightly less than $10 million in 2014 compared to $24 million in 2013.
Net income from our Markel Ventures operations decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013 due to less favorable results in our manufacturing and non-manufacturing operations in 2014 which were partially offset by net income attributable to acquisitions.
The decrease in net income in our manufacturing operations in 2014 was due in part to the lower revenues I just mentioned.
The decrease in net income in our non-manufacturing operations was primarily attributable to less favorable results at Diamond Healthcare driven by a $13.7 million goodwill impairment charge taken by Markel Ventures in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Markel Ventures adjusted EBITDA which excludes this charge was $95 million in 2014 compared to $84 million in 2013.
The increase in adjusted EBITDA in 2014 is due to acquisition.
Moving on to our investment results net investment income for 2014 was $363 million compared to $317 million in 2013.
The increase in net investment income in 2014 is primarily due to a larger investment portfolio in 2014 as a result of the acquisition of Alterra in 2013.
Net realized investment gains for 2014 were $46 million compared to $63 million in 2013.
Variability and the timing of realized and unrealized investment gains and losses is to be expected.
Looking at our total results for the year we reported net income to shareholders of $321 million compared to $281 million in 2013.
The effective tax rate of 26% in 2014 compared to an effective tax rate of 22% in 2013.
The increase in the effective tax rate was driven by higher earnings tax of 35% in 2014 and a smaller benefit from our foreign operations in 2014 which were taxed at a lower rate.
Comprehensive income was $936 million for 2014.
I think that's worth repeating.
Comprehensive income was $936 million for 2014.
That compares to $459 million a year ago.
The increase is primarily attributed to net unrealized gains on our investments during the period.
As a result of our investing underwriting and Markel Ventures operations book value per share increased approximately 14% as Tom said to $544 per share at December 31 2014 from $477 per share at the end of 2013.
Finally I'll make a couple of comments on cash flows and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $717 million for 2014 compared to $746 million for 2013.
In 2014 we made higher payments for income taxes compared to 2013.
These payments were partially offset by higher cash flows from investment income during 2014 primarily due to having a larger portfolio in 2014 as I've previously mentioned.
Invested assets at the holding company were $1.5 billion at December 31 2014 compared to $1.3 billion at the end of 2013.
The increase in invested assets is primarily the result of dividend received from our subsidiaries and an increase in unrealized gains on our investments.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike to discuss operations.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
As stated in previous quarters the U.S.
Insurance segment comprises all direct business written on our U.S.
insurance companies and includes all of the underwriting results of our wholesales specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance team.
For the fourth quarter gross written premium was up 4% over the prior year.
Year-to-date gross written premiums have increased 11% over prior year.
This increase was due in a large part to the Alterra lines of business that are now included in this SEG.
Excluding these lines premium volume was up 6%.
Keep in mind that we have been exiting or re-underwriting some lines in our specialty and wholesale division and this has impacted growth.
The U.S.
insurance segment combined ratio for the quarter was 90% compared to 87% last year.
The combined ratio for the year was 95% compared to 92% in 2013.
As discussed in previous quarter the higher U.S.
insurance segment combined ratio was driven by less favorable development of prior year losses due in part to adverse development in the architects and engineer line of business earlier in 2014.
While we continue to see favorable development on our casualty lines of business in 2014 these redundancies were less than in 2013.
Partially offsetting this impact was a lower year-over-year expense ratio.
The improvement in the expense ratio was primarily due to non-recurring transaction cost recorded in 2013 associated with the Alterra acquisition.
The rate environment remained unchanged in the fourth quarter.
We continue to achieve modest single-digit rate increases on our small and medium sized accounts consistent with previous quarters.
The market for larger global accounts remained very competitive and the rate for most lines remains under pressure.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 and the first part of 2015 we announced several management promotions in the U.S.
segment.
Britt Glisson was appointed President of Global Insurance.
Britt has been with Markel since 1990 serving in a number of management role including President of Markel Insurance Company and most recently Chief Administrative Officer of Markel a position he retains along with his newly delegated responsibilities.
Britt has been working closely with the Global team for the past year having spent most of the year in Bermuda.
Steve Letak was named Chief Operating Officer for Global Insurance and Chief Administrative Officer for Bermuda.
Steve has been with Markel since 2010 joining us as part of Markel's acquisition of FirstComp and was most recently Controller for the Specialty Division.
He has 30 years experience in the industry and has both a CPA and CPCU designations.
Jim Arnold was appointed Chief Administrative Officer for the Wholesale Division.
Jim also joined Markel in 2010.
He has significant experience in strategic planning and business analytics.
Previously he served as Chief Administrative Officer of FirstComp where he was responsible for operations customer service legal and compliance teams.
The Markel acquired THOMCO in 2012.
Greg Thompson who built and led THOMCO for 33 years stayed with Markel and soon after the acquisition assumed a position of President at the Specialty Division.
Greg did so with enthusiasm and a great sense of urgency and commitment.
Recently Greg expressed the desire to step down from his position but remain with Markel and focus his energy on building programs which is a real passion of his.
Effective April 1 2015 Matt Parker will take over from Greg as President of the Specialty Division.
Matt most recently served as Managing Executive of Markel FirstComp where he and his teams have consistently improved results every year.
Matt has a very strong management background having spent 15 years with Gillette and Procter &amp; Gamble managing businesses out of London and Germany.
Since joining Markel Matt's track record is excellent and we look forward to his leadership with this division.
Chad Bertucci has been promoted to Managing Executive for Markel FirstComp effective April 1 2015 replacing Matt Parker.
Chad joined FirstComp in 2006 and has served in several capacities including Vice President of Strategic Planning Vice President of Underwriting Loss Control and Audit.
At the beginning of the fourth quarter we announced the combining of Markel and Alterra claims units into one organization for Markel North America and Bermuda.
Nick Conca was appointed Chief Claims Officer and will be responsible for the strategic vision and performance of this department.
Nick joined Markel with the Alterra acquisition and has more than 25 years experience in the insurance industry including senior leadership positions with several international brokerage insurance and claims organizations.
All of these management promotions clearly illustrate the depth of talent that exists at Markel.
Our ability to attract retain and promote top performer from within this organization supports our belief that we were well-positioned for success in the future.
I'll now turn the call over to Richie Whitt.
Thanks Mike good morning everybody.
Today I'll focus my comments on our 2014 underwriting results for both the international insurance and reinsurance segments.
You may recall that last quarter I used terms like solid and business as usual to describe the first nine months of the year.
There is a word equally apply to our full-year results for both segments.
We had a strong finish to 2014 in both the international insurance and reinsurance segments and reported improved 2014 combined ratios in both segments compared to 2013.
The international insurance segment which includes direct business and facultative placements written by our Markel International Division as well as that written by our Global Insurance Division performed extremely well in 2014.
Gross written premiums in the international insurance segment increased 9% to $1.2 billion for the year.
The combined ratio was 93% compared to 94% in the prior year.
The increase in premium writings in 2014 was primarily due to the Global Insurance Division which was created after the acquisition of Alterra on May 1 2013.
Consequently it only contributed eight months of business in 2013.
The lower segment combined ratio was driven by more favorable prior year takedowns that was partially offset by higher current accident year loss ratio.
The increase in the current accident year loss ratio was primarily driven by favorable developments on prior accident years for the Global Insurance Division which was included in the current accident year for reporting purposes in 2013.
I know that makes a lot of sense towards analyst point and if you need to see.
Now I'd like to discuss the 2014 results of the reinsurance segment which includes reinsurance programs written by our Global Reinsurance Division as well as those written by the Markel International Division.
Gross premiums written for this segment were $1.1 billion for 2014 up from $566 million a year ago.
The increase in premium writings was primarily due to including a full-year writings for products previously written by Alterra in 2014 compared to eight months of writing in 2013.
Obviously a much bigger difference than in the international insurance segment keep in mind reinsurance big dates for renewals on reinsurance of January 1 and April 1 so obviously those were not included in 2013.
The combined ratio for the reinsurance segment was 96% compared to 109% last year.
The reduction in the 2014 combined ratio was driven by more favorable prior-year takedowns in the lower expense ratio.
The lower expense ratio in 2014 is driven by Alterra acquisition related cost included in 2013.
Included in the 2013 current accident year loss ratio was favorable movement on pre-acquisition accident year related to the Alterra Company.
These takedowns totaled approximately $23 million.
Excluding these takedowns and about $25 million of cat losses in 2013 the current accident year loss ratio was flat period-over-period.
As Mike said market conditions remain competitive in the reinsurance segment.
We continue to see rate pressure and saw rate decreases during the January 1 renewal process.
The international insurance segment also continues to experience rate pressure with property and marine and energy being the most heavily impacted at this point.
And we've stated it many times we're not going to take premium when we feel rates are inadequate.
We continue to reinforce this message with our underwriters and I've got teams every day.
As a result of current market conditions and our underwriting discipline organic growth in these segments will be challenging in 2015.
So to quickly sum it up and hand it over to Tom 2014 was a great year for our international insurance and reinsurance segments.
Given current market condition 2015 will be challenging but sort of similar Tom's earlier comments when we've not said that about markets.
But we are very confident in our team's ability to navigate tough markets and deliver solid results.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Tom to discuss investments and Markel Ventures.
Tom? Thank you Richie.
Well everyone here is important to you strengths are not for might have some; it was a very good year.
For Markel Ventures we grew in 2014 both organically and by acquisition Ventures total revenues grew 22% from $686 million to $838 million and our adjusted EBITDA grew from $83.8 billion to $95 million.
The Ventures Group include some businesses that are performing better than we expected and some that are not.
I think this will almost always be the case from a diverse group of companies.
In aggregate I am very pleased with the economic value being created from these operations.
And I'm optimistic about 2015 from the group.
Several of our companies are cyclical and tied to overall levels of economic activity.
So far our order books continue to look good and I expect 2015 to be a good year for Markel Ventures.
In our equity portfolio we earned 18.1% in 2014 compared to the 13.7% return on the S&amp;P 500.
I simply could not be happy with this.
More important in the returns of anyone here though is the fact that over the last 25 years we've earned over 200 basis points more than the S&amp;P 500.
I would sign up for that sort of our performance for the next 25 years in a New York minute.
Our commitment to equities has added immense value to Markel over the decades.
We will do our best and continue to follow our time tested approach and try to keep that going into the future.
In our fixed income operations we earned 6.5% and fulfilled our goals from fixed income investment of earning a positive spread on the insurance funds we hold and protecting the balance sheet against credit losses as well as the possibility of rising interest rates.
We continue to keep our duration a bit shorter in our estimates of the duration of our insurance liabilities.
The actual forgone investment income from maintaining this approach is small compared to the risk of what would happen if interest rates rose dramatically.
We will continue to be defensive as long as the rates are low.
Again thank you for your long-term interest in Markel.
We love what we do here and we love the people we get to work with.
2014 was an intense and fun year and we look forward to meeting the challenges in 2015 and beyond.
And with that we'd now like to take your questions.
Thank you.
If you could open it up for questions please.
Thank you Mr.
Gayner.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question will come from Vincent D'Agostino of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Just to start off a question I guess for the team no one in particular.
But with Tom's opening comments about just modeling out a tougher environment so here I'm particularly thinking about the comments in Alterra.
So what I'm wondering is that might imply that you might have baked in some additional margin of safety or excess margin of safety beyond what was kind of needed.
And if that implies then we might begin to see some initial accident year picks coming in and then might also see some favorable development on some of those kind of realignment actions that were kind of taken over the last year? Vincent this is Richie I'll give it a shot.
We are incredibly consistent in terms of our approach of trying to build reserves that are more likely redundant than deficient in building a margin of safety in our reserves.
This is something we have gone after every single one of our historical acquisitions.
And so I think this is a case where past history is probably pretty good indicator of what future performance might look like.
We are doing very consistent with Alterra as what we did with Terra Nova or FirstComp or any other acquisition building that margin of safety.
And once we believe that margin of safety is established you have that ongoing roll-on of safety in the first year and roll-off of margin and safety in the back years.
I would hate to try to tell you when exactly I think that will happen.
But I think we're on track to accomplish that just like we've done in other acquisitions.
Okay very good to hear.
And Tom just on Diamond Healthcare.
Maybe not a good assumption but I guess I’d have thought just with the healthcare environment that would have been a favorable tailwind for Diamond.
So maybe that's not the case.
Was there anything from a company standpoint that kind of a) from a revenue side that's impacting it; and then b) from the goodwill side that had an impact as well? Right.
As alluded to some of the Markel Ventures companies are doing better from what we had [indiscernible] more challenged.
In healthcare the truth is we've not covered ourselves in glory.
That is a changing industry and while there are challenge and you speak of an increasing demand the change in just the swirl of regulation is [indiscernible] challenge.
Additionally in our healthcare operations we're in a rapid growth mode.
So we're figuring things out.
We're also conservative in our accounting from the way that we would report and describe that to you.
So we look very hard at it.
And I look forward to ultimately reporting better results to you some day on the healthcare arena but we don't have them for you right now.
And one thing I want to tie into some of the Mike's comments earlier when he mentioned the list of people who received promotions and have grown within the organization every single one of those I think except Britt were folks who joined Markel as a result of acquisitions.
And every single one of those acquisitions that we spoke of had some J-curve associated with it where for the first quarter or two they might have been concerned that why did we do that.
But ultimately the culture the value the system the process that we embraced here at Markel works.
We think that works in healthcare just like we think it works in different forms of insurance and in different parts of the world.
So I look forward to reporting better news in the future to you but I don't know whether that will be the next quarter or two.
Okay.
It sounds like it's going back to the benefits of all diversification there so not too concerned.
So I guess the last question would be maybe on the workers’ comp side.
So it does seems like we're hearing that we may be kind of nearing an inflexion point where rate increases are still available but clearly it seems like things are getting a little bit more competitive.
And so I'm just curious if you're seeing some of that same type of activity and if there is I guess the same comments on your small mid versus large on the account size also applies here.
Thank you.
Well it's Mike.
We only write small workers comp in FirstComp and that -- the results of that organization have improved every year since we acquired FirstComp in 2010 and that was the case in 2014.
There they have changed their business and I think I've talked about it on prior calls.
They have moved in and out of geographies depending on the advantage of being in certain states and out of certain other states.
They have dramatically re-underwritten and changed their position in California particularly in Southern California.
And they have tiered their business based on the quality of the business in terms of A B and C type accounts.
So they have managed that book of business extremely well and what isn't necessarily a favorable workers’ compensation environment.
I don't see that changing going forward.
I can't say anything other than they've just done an excellent job outperforming the overall workers’ compensation market in the last few years.
Our next question will come from John Fox of Fenimore Asset Management.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you everyone realizing the overall results are terrific thank you for that.
I did have a question on an area where it wasn't terrific which is Alterra’s life and annuity and I'm doing this from memory but I recall when you closed the deal you put up a rather large I guess charge or reserve against that I think it was $300 million but I may not remember that correctly.
And it's continuing to be a drag of about $30 million a year roughly.
So is that something that we're going to live with going forward or is that a as kind of Richie was commenting on building a margin of safety realizing it's a discontinued business at this point.
Hey John Richie how are you doing? I'm doing well.
Thank you.
You're going to continue to see that $30-ish million or whatever the number is every year that's just simply the amortization of the discount on the reserves because you established those reserves at a discounted rate.
What you're not seeing is the other side which is what we're earning on the asset that we hold against those liabilities.
You don't see that because that's sitting in the investment portfolio.
We're very comfortable with where we are on the life and annuity reserves today.
They're doing basically what we expected and the discount rate we used when we acquired Alterra to set that reserve up was very conservative.
Even with the rather puny return you can get right now in terms of your investments on fixed income.
So it's a little bit -- and we can get on the phone with you and talk about it but you’ll continue to see that number and what you're not seeing is the return on the portfolio on the other side.
Right of course that's coming through investment income in unrealized gains and realized gains so yes.
Yes.
I mean nothing untoward or different than what our expectations at the beginning has happened quite honestly.
Right.
But Tom was talking about modeling at the beginning of the call and I should think about that in the other line as continuing going forward.
Yes absolutely absolutely.
Okay.
And for Tom Gayner I'm looking back three years ago you had less than $2 billion in equities and now its $4 billion.
And that of course has come from a terrific stock market and additional investments that you've made over time.
Going forward from here the markets done fantastically valuations are higher than they were what do you see going forward Tom do you continue to [do] [ph] cost average do you take your foot off the gas a little bit what are your thoughts on equity investing going forward from here? Really the same as it's always been and to your answer about dollar [dropdown] [ph] which is one of the beauties of being part of Markel is that my insurance colleagues keep making deposits into the account all the time which facilitates that sort of approach and they very kindly never ask for any money back [indiscernible] underwriting profits.
So it doesn’t get any better than that.
There's always uncertainty in the investment markets and while we're talking about new highs as an example people in the oil patch might not be feeling that way right now.
I mean that price has been cut in half and it also just implications and things that fall out from that in ways that people didn't foresee and I hope you don't hold me to a forecast I hope you don't hold anybody to a forecast because some of things about the oil market that have struck me is I mean this is the biggest the most liquid the most important commodity that is traded in the world.
And the fact that it could sell for over $100 bucks and then less than half of that within six months tells me that nobody knows anything about anything when it comes to the future.
So that being said that was the case three years ago the case 30 years ago and it’s fun to come to work every day because there is something you did not expect to happen that creates an opportunity.
Right.
I'm certainly not asking for a forecast of the future I guess.
Just when you look at your investment opportunities -- that the future returns on equities will not be what they've been over the last three years although they're going through -- my prediction is they're going to be better than fixed income.
So I was just curious if just for the incremental dollar coming from your friends in the insurance business is the same proportion going in equities less or it sounds like it's going to be the same going forward if I hear you correctly? Yes and what has happened over the last three years we sort of incrementally have continued to invest in equity.
And I’ve been inappropriately cautions about the equity market.
But quite frankly we’re satisfied of the returns but we didn't optimize them but that's okay because that leaves us margin of safety which is an important part of the culture here and we'll continue to just plod along as the markets cheer up or have some big reaction we have the dry powder and the capital to invest more aggressively and we will.
The next question will come from David West of Davenport &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Mike I guess first a question for you on a more recent acquisition Hagerty doubled their own premium this year could you talk about that relationship and how you see -- do you expect it to continue to expand at a pretty healthy rate? Well one David we didn't acquire Hagerty.
We are simply the underwriter on their book of business.
They are a privately held independent agent and broker that specializes in the collector car business.
They grew significantly this year that marketplace we were just out with them recently.
There is a big marketplace.
They obviously are a dominant player and how we recognize player in that marketplace I certainly don't expect premium volume to double in 2015.
I think they'll see steady growth as they have in past.
So our relationship with them is very good.
We have a long term focus with them and I think that the relationship today is about as solid as it could be.
Okay great.
And I guess turning to the international side Richie may be a quick update on the Abbey Protection Deal? Sure Dave.
Sorry I didn't mention that and some of this is probably because sort of business is usual.
That acquisition came down nicely did exactly pretty much exactly what we wanted it to do this year in terms of premium volume and in terms of the fee income that it generates.
The things that we're working on right now with Abbey folks and our UK retail folks is how we can cross sell some of that retail product.
Abbey has got some new unique products that we think we could sell alongside some of their other commercial products for the retail market.
And that has what's been the focus over the last couple of months is really coming up with plans on how we're going to start to take advantage of that in 2015.
So hopefully I'll have more to say about that as we go through 2015 but things have gone very well at Abbey in 2014.
Great great.
And then lastly for Tom you just alluded to all the turmoil in the energy sector wonder could you comment on what kind of exposure you have to energy into fixed income portfolio? I don't have any breakdowns but nothing concerns me and we have a policy of 90% of our fixed income portfolio like mandate is 8 or better and we always stay at the top tier anything to do energy including.
The next question will come from Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I have some questions; you start with on the international book of business in the fourth quarter.
There is obviously some pretty significant reserve releases in there.
Adding those back in to get an accident year combined ratio it looks like the accident year combined ratio year-over-year was a little bit higher.
I was wondering if there as anything unusual in there or change in business mix I realize obviously it is always pretty conservatively stated but I wouldn't have necessarily expected the accident year number to go up? Mark Richie.
We're sort of looking at each other here and nothing in particular stands out to us Anne or somebody can give you a call but we will look at it and let you know that I guess I would say I don't know of anything in particular in the current accident year that's a problem.
I'm thinking and it's probably more of a mix issue but we'll take a look at that and get back with you.
Okay.
Second question also kind of related to combined ratios.
It looked like it was based on my calculation that the expense ratio for the fourth quarter was back at about 40% relative to the kind of 37% to 38% you had been reporting.
Is there anything that contributed to that? Yes Mark that's one of the good expense ratio issues.
What contributed to that was having so much in takedowns that increases our bonus accruals around Markel.
So there is a lot of happy people looking at the fourth quarter expense ratio at Markel.
And it's what you would expect I mean we really had a nice year in terms of the loss ratio some portion of that comes back on the expense ratio side through bonus accruals.
Makes sense.
The -- We picked up.
Fair enough.
Last question I guess well next to last question any comments on the January 1 reinsurance renewals all the market commentary is that rates were fairly substantially down you guys had normally been very disciplined about as you say not chasing those rates.
Anything that you can share as far as what to expect about the January 1 renewal book? Sure this is -- Richie Mark.
Yes it was tough.
I mean January 1 was tough.
I think everybody expected it to be tough.
We are -- we're still putting numbers together but we'll probably be down a little bit on our January 1 renewals just simply because of pricing and the fact that when that starts to happen some accounts get too close to where we think the line needs to be drawn and we either have to reduce them or we have to come off of them.
So yes I would say that the news that you'd probably been hearing from other people that 5% to 15% kind of on average is a pretty good number and we'll wait and see what's happened to the rest of year in reinsurance.
Part of the beauty of Markel I love having reinsurance as part of our business also love only having it as about 20% of our business because of that diversification we can be a bit more cavalier in terms of our approach to it and be more disciplined.
So we'll see how the rest of the year goes.
Okay.
And then the last question I have is you guys have had a buyback authorization in place for a little while now.
You've not done a whole lot with it and I know historically Markel hasn't been overly aggressive in buybacks.
But I look at the amount of capital that you're generating the prospects for growth is described and the valuation of your shares which really not that distinct from a lot of peers.
Kind of curious what are you thinking about buybacks and may be why you're not being a little bit more aggressive at this stage? Sure well thanks Mark this is Tom.
As we've written for the last several years the four part list in the triage of how we would think about capital that comes in the doors and first off let's what understates the importance of capital coming in the door to start with this is a very high class problem we're talking about here.
First thing we'd like to do is fund organic growth.
And the good news is that given the size and scale of this organization and the talent we see in certain pockets whether that's insurance or non-insurance people seem to be coming up with ideas to deploy capital in a thoughtful way.
And the best evidence you have is that works is the continuing sort of compound annual growth rate in the book value that we continue reporting.
So we see opportunities to invest organically with people who are already part in this organization and has done well we're going to do that all day long.
So we don't think we can exhaust that list at all.
Second thing we look at is acquisitions both insurance and non-insurance and [indiscernible] I think that about covers the possibility.
So given the fact that we have history and demonstrated the ability to do that it's a big world out there and continue to seek deals and a lot of conversations that I think will including the long-term benefits in the Markel shareholders.
The third thing we have the option of publicly traded investments and we look at them and the thing we would look at any other capital allocation opportunity has done pretty well on that over the years.
So then fourth and final after we've exhausted those first three opportunities if we still have money leftover and our stock price is favorable well then yes we'll repurchase but the good news is that for as long as possible to deploy capital offensively in this first three categories we -- all of us as Markel shareholders are better off and we look to do that as much as possible and share repurchase is our item numbers four.
That being said we're very rationale the Markel shareholders this is a source of our personal net worth and it's to make sense to being more aggressive on that level we would do so.
Okay.
Thanks for your update on that.
I'll drop off.
[Operator Instructions].
The next question will come from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Couple of different questions.
Number one acquisitions you've done some acquisitions in the last couple of years I guess.
What's your appetite going forward and particularly whether you're considering another large deal again in the next couple of years? Adam Richie.
And Tom might kick in on this one as well.
We did the Alterra acquisition its coming up on almost two years ago now which is its really kind of hard to believe.
But we're in a great position as a result of that.
I mean the Alterra acquisition had gone very well I think.
And in terms of integration we really don't talk about it anymore it’s pretty much a done deal.
So short answer is we're kind of open for business really in terms of looking at insurance acquisition.
In terms of size we try not to get too hung up on size; we try to think about strategic fit and the opportunity.
And of course at the end of the day is we have a market clearing price we can get to.
So put it this way given where we're today there's quite a large number of opportunities that we could look at and potentially take advantage of.
And then of course on Tom side lots of opportunity there and I don't know if you want to talk about it.
There's nothing to add.
Well the other thing this is Mike.
The other thing I’ll add to that is that I think the culture fit with the Alterra talent in Markel was very good.
And I think that's the basis of why we retained most of that talent.
And while there are opportunities that will come up and there have been opportunities that we've looked at since the Alterra the all different sizes you can't discount the fact that one of the important things we look at is the culture fit which then puts us all for a long haul.
Yes and may be just one last thought on Adam there's been kind of slew of activity recently and not to pick on any of those deals I'm sure all of them had their reasons for moving forward.
Strategic fit is critical culture is critical to us.
There has been some discussion that may be some of the deals recently have been big to get bigger.
We're not interested in that it's got to be a good strategic fit it's got to be good cultural fit.
Okay thanks.
And then as far as the excess and surplus market there is always a give and take between the standard market and E&amp;S market which way is the pendulum going now it's been going towards the E&amp;S market is that continuing has that slowed down a lot? Well looking back at 2014 all five of our regions in the E&amp;S segment grew in 2015.
And if we look at our top 10 or 15 relationships with the larger wholesale firms brokers all of those grew in 2014.
We just had our wholesale producer council meeting in January down in Florida.
And the attitude with our customers was very upbeat.
And their attitude toward Markel was very upbeat.
And we're doing some strategic things there.
So right now I see 2015 as more of the same like 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then last more of detail question.
In U.S.
this favorable development.
Could you just give I guess some idea which years the most development came from is it more recent more older? Just any ballpark would be helpful.
Adam I don't think we have that level of detail with us but I'm happy to call you after the call.
[Operator Instructions].
The next question will be a follow-up from Vincent D'Agostino of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning again.
And thanks for taking my follow-up.
Just one Tom it's bit of a curve ball from your investment standpoint and going can you give a point about diving into what no one can possibly know here.
I'm kind of curious if you see any situation where a strong dollar can create inflation outside of commodities and imports to really just U.S.
services in domestic goods where that also simultaneously produces pressure on treasury yields as you have some of that foreign money coming here? Now the way I see that is if that is a possibility of being negative for both the insurance and issues reserves and investment portfolio I mean can anyone have a sense of that or do you have an opinion there? Hi.
I have [indiscernible] I mean I have an opinion that you should be thoughtful about exactly that sort of risk so it is in the mix of things that we think about which I consciously -- to make sure that no matter what sort of curve balls are thrown at us from that standpoint we can capture the bulk for the next round of the fight and confident that we have not lacked ourselves with inflexible positions.
That is the key problem and we may be able to answer the delta the next round.
And I'm showing no additional question at this time.
This will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Tom Gayner for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We look forward to chatting with you next quarter.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] During the call today we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risks.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find reconciliation to GAAP of these measures in the press release which can be found on our Web site at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information Section.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Tom Gayner President and Chief Investment Officer.
Mr.
Gayner the floor is yours sir.
Thank you so much.
Good morning and welcome to the 2015 first quarter conference call for the Markel Corporation.
My name is Tom Gayner and I'm joined as usual by Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt.
Anne will brief you on the financial results Mike and Richie will follow with some comments on our insurance operations and then I’ll finish with invested results and an update on Markel Ventures.
As always we thank you for your interest and support in Markel and we look forward to your questions.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I am happy to report that we are off to a fantastic start in 2015 with our investing underwriting and Markel Ventures operations all contributing to our success.
While this is an exciting beginning it's important to remember that there is a lot of year left to go.
Let's jump into our first quarter results; our total operating revenues grew 5% to $1.3 billion in 2015 from $1.2 billion in 2014.
The increase is driven by higher revenues from Markel Ventures.
Other revenues which include revenue from Markel Ventures were up just under 40% to $260 million from $186 million last year primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014.
Moving into our underwriting results gross written premiums were $1.3 billion for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $1.4 billion from 2014 a decrease of 8% driven by the climb within our reinsurance segment.
During 2014 we see [trailing] auto reinsurance in the UK and we also decreased our non-standard U.S.
other reinsurance business.
Foreign currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on the year-over-year change in gross written premium.
However even on constant rate of exchange gross premium volume decline 5%.
As Mike and Richie will discuss in more detail later market conditions remain very competitive consistent with our historical practices we will not rate business when we believe prevailing market rates will not support our underwriting profit targets.
Net written premiums for the first quarter of 2015 were approximately $1 billion down 9% from the prior year for the same reasons I just discussed.
Net retention was down slightly in 2015 and 83% compared to 84% in 2014.
Earned premiums decreased 1% to $944 million for the first quarter of 2015.
The decrease in 2015 was driven by the unfavorable impact of the U.S.
dollar strengthening against foreign currency.
At a constant rate of exchange earned premiums for the first quarter of 2015 increased 1% compared to same period a year ago.
During the portfolio we saw organic growth in several product lines within our U.S.
insurance segment.
Our consolidated combined ratio for the first quarter of 2015 was an 83% compared to a 95% year ago.
The decrease in the combined ratio was driven by seven point improvement in the prior accident year’s loss ratio in 2015 compared to 2014.
Also contributing to the decrease in the combined ratio was a three point improvement in the current accident loss ratio and a two point improvement in the expense ratio in 2015.
The improvement in the current year loss ratio was due to lower attritional losses in our U.S.
insurance and reinsurance segments in 2015 compared to 2014.
The improvement and the expense ratio is primarily due to lower general expenses in 2015 compared to 2014.
For the first quarter of 2015 prior year redundancies were $167 million compared to $107 million for the same period a year ago.
The increase in prior year redundancies in 2015 was due in part to a decrease in the estimated volatility of our consolidated net loss reserves as a result exceeding a significant portion of our 1992 and prior asbestos and environmental loss reserves to a third-party during the first quarter of 2015.
Due to the unique nature of asbestos and environmental exposures the ultimate estimated value of these reserves is subject to greater uncertainty in other types of loss reserves that we hope once this transaction occurs the resulting decrease in estimated volatility cause the confidence of on our consolidated net loss reserves to increase.
As you have heard us say over the years a core principal of our reserving philosophy is to maintain a margin of safety in our loss reserves plus that those reserves will prove to be more likely [redundant] and efficient.
We apply this reserving philosophy period-over-period and monitor the [actuarial] determined confidence level in our reserve among other things to ensure that we apply our judgments in this area consistently.
Given these considerations and in an attempt to maintain a level of confidence in our loss reserves within a range consistent with historic levels we reduce prior year loss reserves during the period by $36 million which had a four point favorable impact to the combine ratio.
In addition to this one-time impact we experience more favorable prior year loss reserve development in our professional liability and workers compensation environment in the first quarter of 2015 than in the same period a year ago.
Now I’ll discuss the results of Markel Ventures.
During the first quarter of 2015 revenues from Markel Ventures were $245 million compared to $171 million a year ago that’s a 43% increase.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures for the period was just under $11 million in 2015 compared to approximately $1 million for the first quarter of 2014.
EBITDA was $34 million in 2015 compared to $14 million in 2014.
The increase in each of these measures during 2015 was primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014 and improved results within our other manufacturing operations due in part to increase shipments in 2015 as compared to 2014.
Now we’ll talk little bit about our investment results.
Investment income increased to $93 million for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $87 million last year.
During 2014 we continue to replaced lower yielding fixed maturity corporate and mortgage-backed securities with higher yielding fixed maturity tax-exempt municipal securities as part of our effort to reposition the investment portfolio acquired through the Alterra transaction.
We are seeing the benefit of that effort in the first quarter of 2015.
Also contributing to the increase as higher dividend income on our equity portfolio due to our larger equity portfolio in 2015 compared to 2014 due impart to the restructuring of the Alterra investment portfolio.
Net realized investment gains for the first quarter of 2015 were $6 million compared to $17 million a year ago.
Looking at our total results for the year our projected effective tax rate was 19% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to 25% a year ago.
The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2015 was driven by foreign tax credits for foreign taxes paid.
In previous periods taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions were not available for use of tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
In 2015 we anticipate a sufficient amount of earnings from our foreign operations will be taxable in the U.S.
This will allow us to recognize the benefit of significant foreign tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
The recognition of these tax credits has a favorable impact of eight points on our 2015 estimated in new effective tax rate similar benefit may not be available in future years.
We reported net income to shareholders of $191 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $88 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income for the period was $282 million compared to $230 million a year ago.
And as a result book value per share at the end of March 2015 was $564 an increase of 4% since the end of 2014.
I’ll make a couple of final comments about cash flows and the balance sheet; net cash provided by operating activities was $23 million for the first three months of 2015 compared to $22 million for the same period of 2014.
Operating cash flows for the first quarter of 2015 included higher cash flows from our Markel Ventures operations and investing activities offset by lower payments for income taxes and employee profit sharing compared to the same period a year ago.
Operating cash flows for the period was net of approximately $70 million of cash paid in connection with the asbestos and environmental transaction that I previously mentioned.
While we recognize that this transaction will have the short-term impact of reducing investment income we will have eliminated the uncertainty around these exposures and increase our flexibility regarding capital allocation.
Historically first quarter is our lowest cash generating quarter based on the timing associated with incentive compensation payments to our associates and to our brokers.
Invested assets at the holding company were $1.4 billion at the end of March 2015 as compared to $1.5 billion at the end of the year.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mike to talk about our U.S.
Insurance segment.
Thanks Anne good morning.
As we’ve outlined before the U.S.
Insurance segment comprises all direct business written on our U.S.
insurance companies and includes all of the underwriting results of our wholesale and specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance team.
For the first quarter gross written premium was up 2% over prior year.
We've seen some growth in our wholesale casualty lines and our specialty workers comp line.
This growth was been offset by lower premium volume from architects and engineers where we have exited certain classes and our wholesale property lines where we’re seeing the softening market conditions.
The combined ratio for the quarter was 84% compared to 96% for the same period a year-ago.
In the quarter we benefited from lower attritional losses in our binding and brokerage property lines and program business as well as more favorable prior year takedowns due in part to the change in volatility which Anne just discussed.
In our core product lines we also saw a favorable development of prior year losses in our professional liability and worker's compensation books.
Additionally the expense ratio was better due to lower general expenses in quarter one compared to last year.
Operationally [indiscernible] is fully engaged in his new position as President of Markel Global a large account business.
We've recently returned from the RIMS Conference in New Orleans where our Senior Global Underwriters had the opportunity to engage with the number of clients brokers and prospects and we continue to believe that under better market conditions we have the talent and products to grow this business.
Matt Parker assumed the position of President of Markel Specialty April 1st taking over from Greg Thomson who is focusing his efforts on finding new program opportunities for Markel.
I am very confident Matt's ability to lead this division.
Chad [indiscernible] replaced Matt in the leadership world at FirstComp and is well prepared to continue that progress having served in a number of different capacities at FirstComp over the last few years.
Market conditions throughout the U.S.
segment remain largely unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2014.
We continue to generate modest rate increases on our smaller E&amp;S and specialty accounts the market is considerably tougher for the larger complex risk underwritten by our Global Division.
Brian Sanders and his team in our wholesale division are focused on three key issues maintaining our relationships with our key wholesalers continuing to communicate -- excuse me our underwriting appetite to these wholesalers and improving efficiency in our backroom processes.
We held our Binding and Brokerage Council Meeting in early in the quarter and feedback from our wholesale partners remains very positive.
Gerry Albanese and our product line leadership initiated several changes to their structure to better align with certain segments of our business.
The public entity team transferred to the global reinsurance division and the senior leading team transferred to the Global Insurance division.
We also had a talent to our environmental and binding teams.
All of the units in the U.S.
segment are currently reviewing their profiles objectives and priorities making sure that their goals remain in line with our longer-term objectives.
Our North American platform is solid and we look forward to the rest of the year.
I will now turn the call over to Richie.
Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
Today I will focus my comments on the underwriting results of the first quarter of 2015 for both our international insurance and reinsurance segment.
As Anne said 2015 is off to a fantastic start however we all need to keep in mind that one quarter does not make any year and we all know there is a long way to go and lot of hard work ahead of us.
The international insurance segment which includes business written by our Markel International division as well as that written by our Global Insurance division had a great first quarter.
Gross written premiums in the international insurance segment did decrease slightly by 2% to 289 million however the combined ratio was 73% compared to 91% in the prior year.
The decrease in premium writings is primarily due to the impact of the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
Excluding currency impacts gross written premium volume actually increased 4% due to increased volume in our professional liability product lines partially offset by decreases in our marine and energy product lines.
The lower segment combined ratio was driven by more favorable prior accident years we takedowns and lower current accident year loss ratio partially offset by higher expense ratio.
The decrease in the current accident year loss ratio was primarily driven by the nine claims development and lower attritional loss ratios across the number of lines within our Markel International division.
This segment included approximately 18 points of favorable of prior accident year's movement related to the change in estimated volatility on our loss reserves that Anne discussed earlier.
We also experienced favorable prior year's development across our Global Insurance division which reported adverse development last year.
The expense ratio for this segment increased slightly due to higher general expenses.
On the subject to volatility it's worth pointing out that at least two types of volatility impacts our underwriting results business mix and reserve volatility.
While they are closely related they are different.
We have discussed reserve volatility in great detail this quarter due to the movement in prior year reserves; equally important however is the impact of business mix.
With the acquisition of Alterra which just celebrated its two year anniversary a week or so ago we added Global Insurance and Reinsurance divisions.
The addition of these divisions changed our business mix adding larger excess limit Fortune 1000 business with global insurance and additional capacity exposure and larger limits with global reinsurance.
This change in business mix contributes to additional volatility and underwriting results as demonstrated in this quarter.
Now I'd like to discuss the results of the reinsurance segment which includes three reinsurance programs written by our Global Reinsurance Division as well as that written by the Markel International Division.
Gross premiums written during the quarter for this segment decreased to $378 million for 2015 from $409 million a year ago.
And mentioned as the decrease in writings was driven by underwriting decisions to ceased writing UK motor business and significantly reduced our writings of U.S.
non-standard orders for the business.
The combined ratio for the reinsurance segment was 89% compared to 94% last year.
Reduction in combined ratio was driven by a lower current accident year loss ratio [whether its] driven by lower property losses in the first quarter of this year compared to last year.
Finally I'll touch on competition as Mike and Anne both said the market remains competitive.
In the reinsurance segment we saw pressure in terms and rates during the January 1 renewal process.
As the year moves forward while still extremely competitive it does appear that the decrease in rates and terms has slowed to some extent.
We certainly believe there is very little left in getting reinsurance terms or rates and it would appear that at least a few of our competitors feel the same way and are pushing back against additional decreases.
In our international insurance segment we continue to experience rate pressure with property and marine and energy being the most impacted.
I don’t see much in the way of change in the environment over the last quarter.
In summary and we stated it many times we're not going to chase premium when we feel the rates are inadequate.
We continue to reinforce this message with our underwriting teams as is reflected in our first quarter's gross premium numbers.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Richie.
I'm going to try and set a record of revenue this morning in my investment and Markel Ventures comments.
My colleagues in the room are placing bets as we speak.
In short we're earning positive productive returns on our investments in Markel Ventures operations.
And I'm optimistic that we can continue to do so even in the faith of the tectonic force of low interest rates.
More importantly our short duration fixed income portfolio our percentage of equity capital invested in equities have range of possibilities that we can pursue in Markel Ventures and in our ongoing profitable insurance operations with the cash flows that they produce gives us a great flexibility and many options as conditions and circumstances change.
I'm highly confident that we will see change and most of us will be surprised by the nature and speed of whatever comes our way.
I also think it's fair to say that we are in better position than many to take advantage of dynamic markets rather than just suffer [blows].
As to the current numbers so far in 2015 we're continuing to see the trends that have been in place for the last several years.
We've earned reasonable returns from our equity investing activities with a return of 2.3% in the first quarter.
In our fixed income operations we earned 1.6% in the ongoing low interest rate environment and we kept our duration at just over four years.
The total portfolio have earned 1.7% in local currency terms but only half the percent after currency effects from the higher U.S.
dollars.
That currency drive and investment results is largely offset by the fact that we remain largely hedged in foreign currencies for our insurance reserves.
As such the dollar value of insurance liabilities diminishes by a similar amount.
CapEx effect has been and remain largely neutral in our insurance operations.
Those were the numbers and the facts the game plan going forward on the investment side is as follows and most of you will recognize these comments from previous quarters and years.
A; we will continue to steadily and methodically increase our equity portfolio as we fine tune [indiscernible].
We will continue to come to work every day and sort and sift through our universe of opportunities to deploy capital in insurance investing and Markel Ventures opportunities.
B; we will continue to lesser duration of our fixed income portfolio be less than our estimates of the duration of our insurance liabilities given the low level of interest rates.
We certainly don't think we're being paid appropriate to take the risk at higher rates.
Also the opportunity cost of holding the shorter duration portfolio remained minor since it's more of a yield line than a yield curve out there.
C; we will continue to focus our fixed income holdings at the higher end of the credit quality universe.
Again we just don't think we're getting paid to take on more risk so we will not do so.
Finally I'm sure that if we were really smart and clever we could find some alternative investment approach that would increase the yield on our short term portfolio from essentially nothing to something more than that.
We're not that clever or smart so we won't try to perform that sort of alchemy.
We've seen enough of those experiments end badly to dissuade us from going down that path.
As to Markel Ventures we've got some unabashed good news.
Our business has enjoyed a record quarter of profitability revenues were 43% of 171 million to 245 million and EBITDA grew 136% from 14.2 million to 33.6 million.
Our manufacturing operations particular performed quite well.
While several of our companies are cyclical and will have volatile results during an economic cycle I can report to you that business is good right now and order books look encouraging as well.
Given the overall pricing environment for new acquisitions we’re finding it tough to find the businesses to add to Markel Ventures at the moment.
We are pleased with their organic growth and we are focused on running what we already have.
We act in the same discipline fraction all around Markel whether you are talking about insurance underwriting equity or fixed income investing or within any corner of the Markel Ventures.
The good news for all of us as shareholders is that approach continues to serve us well and I expect it will continue to do so in the future I think that we are in a relatively unique position where we can continue to earn positive returns in the current environment and we have a wide range of flexibility of options as the environment inevitably changes.
That is the long-term story of Markel and continues to be the case.
With that we look forward to answering the questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question we have comes from John Fox of Fenimore Asset Management.
Please go ahead.
I have two questions; first one is on the reserve releases which over the last two quarters [with an over] 300 million and I imagine you could have started that process instead of fourth quarter last year the second quarter of last year or maybe the second quarter of this year and I understand there's always a margin of safety and reserves but other than the expense transaction what’s been the catalyst or the reason why you feel comfortable taking the strategy reserve releases that you have taken in the last two quarters did something change did you just say you got to your margin and safety level or is there some other catalyst? And then I have another question.
Thank you.
I don’t think anything has changed I think the overall the experience that we have seen in the loss reserves has been positive I do think we have a tendency to wait until the second half of the year to look real hard if we have historically any or different things but I don’t think anything in the process or our approach has change at all recently or over the long-term nor do I think it will.
I think we have seen the Alterra portfolio experience maybe better than we expected on day one.
But we are still being cautious in that space.
So I understand the reserve take downs have been significant but I don’t think there is anything different happening here.
John Richie I’ll just add to that I talked about volatility and as an example in our global insurance division last year we had prior year development this year we had prior year redundancies and that sort of gets back to you that business it's excess limit large limit business and it's just simply more volatile.
So that was just a complete turnaround year-to-year and one of the drivers.
And Richie my second question is on reinsurance should we expect to see the magnitude of decline in gross written that we saw this quarter which I applaud if you're not getting the adequate rate.
So should we think about that line being down 20% year-over-year or something of that nature? It's a little hard to say I mean we’re going to have to see how the rest of the year goes John.
We made too pretty fundamental decisions in the last number of months in terms of exiting UK motor and significantly reducing U.S.
non-standard simply because we couldn’t make we don’t think we can make money in either of them the way we needed to.
We’re going to look at every contract that comes up on its own merits those were obviously two pretty big items and we’ll just have to see how the rest of the year goes.
[Operator Instructions] Next we have Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
A couple of questions; last one the UK motor book that you had exited at the end of last year is that a quarter share book or an excess book which is the same is it something that’s going to affect all of the forward quarters of this year or is it something that’s kind of one and done? It's mostly market it's mostly renewed January 1 there are some renewals throughout year but update renewal date on that business is January 1.
It is except loss business it is not a quota share business.
The second question relates to the tax rate and I think you kind of described how it works is it right or at least reasonable to assume 19% is going to be the run rate for this year unless something changes otherwise I know you true it up later in the year but as a starting point is that where we should begin thinking? That’s what our expectation is and we’ll true it up each quarter but you're right.
And then finally on the asbestos retrocession transaction what portion of overall asbestos reserves were transferred? And I guess if it's not a 100% why not 100%? Well it was about 35%.
Mark as Anne said 35%.
The reason for the third is this would be all of the asbestos and environmental reserves that resided in our UK insurance company Markel International Insurance Company.
And what it really does is it cleans up and removes all of that asbestos and environmental and in fact all 1992 and prior exposures from that balance sheet.
And it's just an opportunity to -- we’ve been working for 15 years to sort of clean up the legacy that we purchased with Terra Nova and this is the culmination if you will of those efforts and the guys up there did an absolutely fantastic job cleaning that up.
But you didn’t really -- this was just opportunistic with respect to that book did you consider getting rid of the U.S.
portion as well or that just wasn’t really what was on the table? That wasn’t what was on the table at the time I mean we’ve been running that book that legacy position down for long time over there and it was an opportunity to complete it if you will.
In the U.S -- I mean we certainly I mean obviously we look at it all the time to decide whether you're better off running it off for letting someone else run it off but we’re perfectly comfortable keeping the rust off it.
Well at this time we’re showing no further questions.
We’ll go ahead and conclude today’s question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Tom Gayner President and Chief Investment Officer for any closing remarks.
Sir? Thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to catching up next quarter.
Take care.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time also today.
Again the conference call has concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day everyone.
Greetings and welcome to the Markel Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risk.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information about the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find the reconciliation to GAAP of these measures in Form 10-Q which can be found on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section.
The presenters today for Markel Corporation will be in the following order: Mr.
Tom Gayner President and Chief Investment Officer; Ms.
Anne Waleski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Mike Crowley President and Co-Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Richie Whitt President and Co-Chief Operating Officer.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to your host Mr.
Tom Gayner.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thanks so much.
Good morning and welcome to the 2015 first half conference call for Markel.
My name is Tom Gayner.
And as our host indicated I'm joined as usual by Anne Waleski; Mike Crowley; and Richie Whitt.
Anne will brief you on the financial results.
Mike and Richie will follow with some comments on our insurance operations and then I'll finish with comments on our investment results and Markel Ventures.
As always we thank you for your interest and support of Markel and we look forward to your questions.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Our financial results for the first half of 2015 are solid and we produced underwriting profits in all three of our ongoing insurance segments each of which have improved from a year ago.
While our underwriting results were positive our investing results and our growth in book value were impacted by an increase in interest rates during 2015.
Moving into the results for the first six months of 2015.
Our total operating revenues grew 4% to $2.6 billion in 2015 from $2.5 billion in 2014.
This increase was driven by higher revenues from Markel Ventures.
Other revenues which include Markel Ventures were up 34% to $510 million from $380 million last year primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014.
Taking a look at our underwriting results gross written premiums were $2.5 billion for the first half of 2015 compared to $2.7 billion in 2014 a decrease of 7% driven by a decline within our Reinsurance segment.
During 2014 we ceased writing auto reinsurance in the UK and we also decreased our non-standard U.S.
auto reinsurance business.
Foreign currency exchange rates also had an unfavorable impact on the year-over-year change in gross written premiums.
However even at a constant rate of exchange gross written premium volume declined 5%.
Market conditions continue to be very competitive especially within the property and marine and energy product lines.
Consistent with our historical practices we will not write business when we believe prevailing market rates will not support our underwriting profit targets.
Net written premiums for the first half of 2015 were $2.1 billion down 7% from the prior year for the same reasons I just discussed.
Our net retention rate was in line with the prior year at an 82%.
Earned premiums decreased 1% to $1.9 billion for the first six months of 2015.
The decrease in 2015 was driven by the unfavorable impact of the U.S.
dollar strengthening against foreign currencies.
At a constant rate of exchange earned premiums for 2015 would've increased 2% compared with the same period a year ago.
During the period we saw organic growth in several specialty product lines within our U.S.
Insurance segment.
Our consolidated combined ratio for the first six months of 2015 was a 90% compared to a 98% a year ago.
The decrease in the combined ratio was driven by more favorable development on prior accident year's loss reserves in 2015 compared to 2014.
For the first half of 2015 prior-year redundancies were $296 million compared to $167 million for the same period a year ago.
As we discussed in the first quarter the increase in prior-year redundancies in 2015 was due in part to a decrease in the estimated volatility of our consolidated net loss reserves as a result of ceding a significant portion of our 1992 and prior asbestos and environmental loss reserves to a third party during the first quarter of 2015.
In order to maintain a level of confidence in our loss reserves within a range consistent with historic levels we reduced prior-year loss reserves during the period by $36 million which had a favorable impact to the combined ratio for the first six months of 2015.
Prior-year losses for the six months ended June 30 2014 included $27 million of adverse development on asbestos and environmental exposures.
In 2014 our annual review of asbestos and environmental exposures was completed in the second quarter.
In 2015 that review will occur in the third quarter.
Also contributing to the decrease in the consolidated combined ratio in the period was a lower current accident year loss ratio resulting from lower attritional losses in our U.S.
Insurance and our Reinsurance segments in 2015 compared to 2014.
Next let's take a look at the results of Markel Ventures.
During the first six months of 2015 revenues from Markel Ventures were $485 million compared to $355 million for the same period a year ago.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures for the period was $8 million in 2015 compared to $5 million for the same period in 2014.
EBITDA was $47 million in the first six months of 2015 compared to $35 million in the same period of 2014.
The increase in revenues from our Markel Ventures operations during 2015 was primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014 and higher revenues within our manufacturing operations due in part to higher sales volume in 2015 compared to 2014.
Likewise net income and EBITDA from our Markel Ventures operations increased in 2015 primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell and more favorable results within our manufacturing operations.
However these increases were partially offset by an increase during the second quarter of 2015 in our estimate of the contingent consideration obligation associated with the acquisition of Cottrell.
Next we'll turn to our investment results.
Net investment income increased to $183 million for the first six months of 2015 compared to $179 million for the same period a year ago.
The increase in net investment income in 2015 was primarily due to increased dividend income on our equity portfolio due to higher equity holdings in 2015 compared to 2014.
Net unrealized investment gains for 2015 were $12 million compared to $25 million a year ago.
Net unrealized investment gains decreased $187 million for the first half of 2015 compared to an increase of $515 million for the same period last year.
The decline in net unrealized investment gains this year was attributable to an increase in interest rates during 2015.
Looking at our total results for the year.
Our effective tax rate was 16% for the six months ended June 30 2015 compared to 24% for the same period a year ago.
The decrease in the tax rate for the first six months of 2015 was driven by the recognition of U.S.
tax credits for taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions.
As we discussed in the first quarter we have paid taxes in foreign jurisdictions in previous periods which have not been available for use as tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
In 2015 we anticipate a sufficient amount of earnings from our foreign operations will be taxable in the U.S.
allowing us to now recognize these tax credits.
A similar benefit may not be available in future years.
We reported net income to shareholders of $282 million in the first six months of 2015 compared to $128 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income for the first half of 2015 was $149 million compared to $481 million a year ago.
And as a result book value per share at the end of June 2015 was $555 a share an increase of 2% since the end of 2014.
Finally I'll make a couple of comments on our cash flows and our balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $238 million for the first six months of 2015 flat to the same period a year ago.
Operating cash flow for the first half of 2015 included higher cash flows from our Markel Ventures operations and lower payments for income taxes compared to the same period in 2014.
Operating cash flow for the period was net of approximately $100 million of cash paid for two ceded reinsurance transactions which we completed in the period.
Invested assets at the holding company were $1.4 billion at June 30 2015 as compared to $1.5 billion at December 31 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike to talk about our U.S.
Insurance segment.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
U.S.
Insurance segment as we've said before comprised of all direct business written on our U.S.
Insurance companies and includes all of the underwriting results of our Wholesale Specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance team.
The rate environment in the U.S.
remains very competitive and relatively unchanged from the first quarter of 2015.
We're hitting our rate targets for U.S.
business in the Specialty and E&amp;S divisions achieving modest single-digit rate increases.
The large account property &amp; casualty business remains under significant rate pressure and we're maintaining our underwriting discipline and walking away from business that we deem to be under-priced.
Britt Glisson and the Global Insurance team are continuing to look for opportunities on large accounts but growth will be difficult to come by until the rate pressure subsides.
For the second quarter the U.S.
segment gross written premiums declined nearly 2% over the prior year while year-to-date gross written premiums were flat to the comparative period.
The decline in the quarter has been driven by lower premium from our Wholesale property line where we continue to see soft market conditions as well as declines in our Wholesale excess and umbrella and environmental lines.
In addition we've exited several programs and changed our underwriting appetite for the architects and engineers line of business.
Offsetting these reductions we've seen continued growth in our Wholesale casualty lines as well as in the worker's comp and Hagerty classic car programs both in our Specialty division.
The combined ratio for the second quarter was 93% compared to 100% for the same period a year ago.
Combined ratio year-to-date was 89% compared to 98% for the six months ended June 30 2014.
Our loss ratio continued to benefit from lower attritional losses across multiple product lines in all three divisions.
For the quarter this benefit was most noticeable in the marine and professional liability product lines within our Global Insurance division.
In our core product lines we also saw more favorable development from prior year's loss reserves.
Favorable development was most significant in our casualty professional liability workers' comp and brokerage property books.
Our positive underwriting results reflect a number of initiatives put into place in 2014 by Gerry Albanese our Chief Underwriting Officer and his team.
We believe that the steps we've taken to improve results are taking hold and having the desirable affects.
The third quarter is a busy time with the beginning of our 2016 budget process.
And with both the NAPSLO and CIAB annual conferences.
We look forward each year to NAPSLO and CIAB where we engage with our wholesalers producers and reinsurers.
These meetings provide a background for our 2016 planning process and gives us insight into what our producers are thinking about the new year.
With that I'll turn it over to Richie.
III - President &amp; Co-Chief Operating Officer</strong> Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
My comments are going to be extremely brief today.
I'm going to focus on our underwriting results for the first half of 2015 for both the International Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
While not as strong as their excellent first quarter results both segments continue to produce solid underwriting results for the first half of 2015.
First I'll start with the International Insurance segment which includes business written by our Markel International division as well as that written by our Global Insurance division.
For the first half of the year gross written premiums declined 4% to $627 million.
The year-to-date combined ratio was 86% compared to 94% in the prior year.
The decrease in premium writings is primarily due to the continued impact of the strong U.S.
dollar.
Excluding currency impacts gross written premium volume actually increased 1% due to continued growth in our professional liability product lines as well as growth across our retail product lines in the Markel International division.
This growth was partially offset by the continued decline in our marine and energy book due to the extremely competitive market conditions in that area.
The lower segment combined ratio was driven by more favorable prior-year takedowns partially offset by a higher current-year expense ratio.
The segment included approximately four points of favorable prior accident year's movement related to the changes in estimated volatility of our loss reserves that Anne referred to in her comments.
We also experienced favorable development across our Global Insurance division which had slight adverse development through six months of last year.
The expense ratio has increased nearly four points due to higher profit-sharing costs and higher general expenses.
In the Reinsurance segment which includes treaty reinsurance programs written by our Global Insurance division as well as that written by our Markel International division; gross written premium for this segment decreased 20% for the first six months to $637 million down from $793 million a year ago.
As we disclosed at the end of last year and Anne referred to it as well we made the decision to stop writing UK motor business and to take smaller line sizes in our U.S.
non-standard auto books of business.
This is now starting to show up in the gross written premium volume comparisons.
The year-to-date combined ratio for the Reinsurance segment was 94% compared to 97% last year.
The reduction in the combined ratio was primarily driven by a lower current accident year loss ratio driven by lower property losses in the first half of the year compared to last year.
As Mike said market conditions remain extremely competitive.
But I would say there's not a whole lot of change from what we reported to you in the first quarter quite honestly.
As always we remain focused on underwriting discipline and generating underwriting profits.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Tom to discuss investments and Markel Ventures.
Thank you Richie.
I'd like to make a few comments about our investing and Markel Ventures operations this morning that I hope will accurately describe our results and give you some insight about what we and you should expect going forward.
The investing message is short and straightforward: we made modest returns of 1.5% in our equity portfolio for the first six months; and we were flat on our fixed income portfolio as a slight rise in interest rates offset the modest coupon income from the portfolio.
After the effects of foreign currency exchange rates are taken into account we show a small loss of 0.5% for the entire portfolio due to our holdings of foreign currency bonds.
As a reminder foreign holdings exist largely to match against our foreign currency interest liabilities.
The net effect to Markel from swings in the value of the dollar is as close to zero as we can possibly make it.
Our longstanding policy of matching our foreign liabilities to foreign assets remains in place and it has functioned well over many years.
That will continue to be our approach.
But given the large moves in the dollar recently and the low level of interest rates the relative contribution of that line item is bigger than normal.
As such I thought it was worthwhile to call it to your attention.
More importantly the credit quality for the bond portfolio remains as close to pristine as we know how to make it.
We have no credit losses to report to you.
Over time our credit losses round to zero and we work assiduously to make sure that remains the case.
It's been a long time since we've seen credit risk we think is worth taking.
On the equity side our positive return of 1.5% is modest at best and roughly in line with the overall market.
From that return and the similar return of the S&amp;P 500 you may think that we're looking at what a sailor would call becalmed not much wind or action.
I would beg to differ.
And here's an interesting fact that I think begins to describe the somewhat tumultuous and fractured nature of the equity markets so far in 2015.
Specifically the New York Times publishes a graphic every day that shows the S&amp;P 100 stocks by name.
It shows each of these largest companies the closing price and the 52-week range of the stock price.
Also it breaks that 52-week price range into a visual graph of four quartiles to indicate in which quartile the stock is trading.
In yesterday's graph of the top-100 stocks 30 of them were in the bottom quartile and 48 were in the top quartile leaving only 22 in the middle two quartiles combined.
This strikes me as a relatively unusual distribution.
If we were in a rip-roaring bull market you'd expect to see a bunch of the companies in the top quartile and very few at the bottom.
In a tough bear market you'd expect to see a bunch of companies in the bottom quartile and very few at the top.
This market is bizarre to me.
We've got a disproportionate number of names at the top and a disproportionate number of names at the bottom at the same time with very few companies in the middle of the range.
To me this illustrates the volatility and somewhat topsy-turvy nature of things right now.
I apologize for my use of such technical terms.
More importantly my point – and I do have one – is that I believe this represents a real opportunity for us.
During the first six months of the year we increased our equity holdings as a percentage of our shareholders' equity from 54% to 56% with our steady and unrelenting program of regular additions to the equity portfolio.
With the price volatility present in the markets I believe we've been able to purchase shares in high-quality companies at very reasonable prices as they go on sale and that we're stocking the pipeline for attractive future returns.
Specifically we continue to acquire holdings in energy finance and consumer products businesses that meet all of our four-point tests.
And I'm optimistic about the future returns we'll see from doing so.
Expect us to continue this approach.
As to Markel Ventures we enjoyed a much better first half than what the reported EBITDA numbers would suggest at first glance.
For the first half we reported EBITDA of $46.8 million compared to $35.1 million a year ago.
This is a 33% increase and not bad.
The EBITDA this year of $46.8 million though comes after a charge of $17.6 million stemming from a recent acquisition that is actually doing better than what we expected when we purchased it.
We have an earn-out agreement associated with the purchase and we will pay additional consideration for the company due to the fact that they are doing well – that's a good thing.
And as such I would view the apples-to-apples comparison of Markel Ventures EBITDA at $64.4 million versus $35.1 million an increase of 83.4%.
It strikes me as a former accountant that what we pay for a company is a capital transaction and belongs in the balance sheet accounts rather than the income statement but current accounting rules treat this differently.
As such the good economic fact that a business we bought is doing better than we expected shows up as a cost in our income statement.
Warren Buffett discussed this sort of accounting issue and its implication in the 2012 Berkshire Annual Report; it's on page 13 if you'd like to study the matter further.
The very good news is that the aggregate economic performance of our Markel Ventures companies is very positive in 2015 and we continue to expect a good year overall.
The earn-out causing this particular accounting kerfuffle ends in 2015.
Again my apologies for using such technical terms.
Starting next year the good news should just be good news and bad news will just be bad news at least as far as our existing operations are concerned.
As we acquire new companies within Markel Ventures we will continue to face accounting decisions and we'll continue to try to translate for you into how we think about the underlying economics of how our businesses are doing.
In the current marketplace we see more opportunities to buy attractively priced publicly traded securities than private businesses so we are allocating our capital more towards public markets.
We continue to actively hunt for opportunities in both arenas and I'm optimistic we'll find treasures in both markets.
That's one of the true beauties of Markel in that we are able to pursue the highest and best returns no matter where they might be.
We have a full 360-degree view of insurance industrial and public and private debt and equity markets and we're comfortable in deploying capital into any and all of them as circumstances arise.
We're delighted with the long-term results from doing so and we look forward to continuing these activities in the future.
With that we look forward to your questions.
If you'd be so kind as to open the floor we'll take any questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And the first question we have comes from Mark Dwelle of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
A couple of numbers questions to start off with.
The expense ratio in the quarter was a little bit higher than where it had been running for the last several quarters and I was wondering if there was anything unique or unusual in the quarter or any other factor that might explain it.
Hi Mark.
It's Anne.
Sort of to Tom's point about good news facts we did make an adjustment to the profit-sharing accrual during the quarter based on the results year-to-date.
So that's what you're seeing push through the expense ratio.
It's about two points in the quarter I think.
Okay.
Very good.
The second question relates to amortization expense which is normally pretty stable but it kind of popped up relative to the last several quarters' run rate.
Was there some re-visitation of prior acquisitions or something in that? We've been working on a – for lack of a better term some simplification within the legal entity structure and we closed off the legacy Europe operations of Alterra.
Then we finalized that at the beginning of the year so there was a write-off for some licenses that they held and you saw that in the quarter.
That's what I think you're seeing there.
I see.
So sort of a one-off there on that.
Correct.
Okay.
The third question Tom mentioned the earn-out related to Cottrell.
Was that all in the second quarter results or was there any in the first quarter? There was nothing in the first quarter.
You're seeing the change come through in the second quarter.
To the extent that the forecast for Cottrell moves around you could see some movement up or down in the third and fourth quarter.
But we're not expecting it to be a material move.
Okay.
And then the last question I had related to the tax rate.
And I think I understand from last quarter how that was meant to be calculated and estimated.
And I guess what confused me is that the tax rate that came down in the quarter relative to the first quarter yet the earnings related to the related international entities were actually worse in the second quarter than the first quarter.
So that seems counterintuitive and I was hoping you could help me reconcile it.
Yeah.
I think the thing to remember there is that it's all about what portion of the foreign operations get taxed in the U.S.
And during the quarter when we did the provision work the amount of foreign income that we expect to be taxed in the U.S.
declined.
Okay.
Maybe I'm not sure I understand that last point.
I'm not exactly sure how to articulate it differently but not all of our foreign operations get taxed in the U.S.
So when we do the provision work we have to do an allocation to determine how much of it we expect will be taxed in the U.S.
And...
I see.
It's not just what you earned; it's very specifically exactly where you earned it which isn't something...
That's correct.
Which isn't something that anybody with my level of financial statements is ever going to see; it'll be something at your internal level that you'll be able to track.
That's right.
And if it makes you feel any better it's as challenging for us as it probably seems to you.
I guess the last question on that point is shall I think about the 16% year-to-date run rate as being the best estimate to think about for the balance of the year? Or should it be...
That's right.
Okay.
That's fine.
That's right.
Although just to make sure we're all sort of talking about the same thing.
That would be our estimate for the year that we would expect for future years our best estimate is what the historical run-rate has been.
So low to mid-20s.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's all my questions.
Thank you.
Well at this time we're showing no further questions and we'll go ahead and conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Ms.
Waleski gentlemen? Thank you very much.
I was glad to be with you.
Talk to you soon.
Bye-bye.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time also today.
The conference call is now concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day everyone.
Good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risks.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures in the 10-Q which can be found on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section.
The presenters today from Markel Corporation will be in the following order: Mr.
Tom Gayner President and Chief Investment Officer; Ms.
Anne Waleski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Mike Crowley President and Co-Chief Operating Officer; and Mr.
Richie Whitt President and Co-Chief Operating Officer.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Tom Gayner.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Denise and good early morning.
We understand that we will use rounding of maybe as many as tens of people on the call and we welcome you to our third quarter conference call for Markel.
My name is Tom Gayner.
I am joined as usual by my colleagues Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt.
Anne will brief you on the financial results.
Mike and Richie will discuss our insurance internal operations.
And then I will return with comments on our investment results and Markel Ventures.
As always we thank you for your interest and support of Markel and we look forward to answering your questions.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and a good early morning to everyone on the call.
I am happy to report that our year-to-date underwriting results are outstanding contributing just under $300 million to pre-tax profits for the first nine months of 2015.
All three ongoing insurance segments contributed to this result by producing a lower combined ratio compared to a year ago.
While underwriting results have made a significant contribution to shareholder value the favorable impact from underwriting was muted by our investment results for the first nine months which were adversely affected by volatility in the equity markets.
Our total operating revenues grew 4% to $3.9 billion in 2015 from $3.8 billion in 2014.
The increase is driven by higher revenues from Markel Ventures.
Other revenues which include revenues from Markel Ventures were up 30% to $817 million from $630 million last year primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014.
Going back to the underwriting results gross written premiums were $3.7 billion for the first nine months of 2015 compared to $3.8 billion in 2014 a decrease of 3% driven by a decline within our reinsurance segment.
During 2014 we ceased writing auto reinsurance in the UK and we also decreased our nonstandard U.S.
auto reinsurance business.
Foreign currency exchange rates also had an unfavorable impact on the year-over-year change in gross written premiums.
However even at a constant rate of exchange gross written premium volume declined 1%.
Market conditions continue to be very competitive especially within the property and marine and energy product lines.
Consistent with our historical practices we will not write business when we believe prevailing market rates will not support our underwriting profit targets.
Net written premiums for the first nine months of 2015 were $3 billion down 3% from the prior year and our net retention was in line with the prior year at an 82%.
Earned premiums were $2.9 billion for 2015 and were flat to prior year.
At a constant rate of exchange earned premiums for 2015 would have increased 2% compared to the same period a year ago.
During the period we saw organic growth in several specialty division product lines within our U.S.
insurance segment which was offset by a decline in earned premiums for the reinsurance segment for the same reasons I just mentioned.
Our consolidated combined ratio for the first nine months of 2015 was an 89% compared to a 97% a year ago.
The decrease in the combined ratio was driven by more favorable development on prior accident year loss reserves in 2015 compared to 2014.
For the first nine months of 2015 prior year redundancies were $459 million compared to $260 million for the same period a year ago.
As I have mentioned in prior calls during the first quarter we entered into an asbestos and environmental reinsurance agreement related to exposures in our UK book resulting in a reduction in prior year loss reserves during the period by $36 million which had a 1 point favorable impact to the combined ratio for the first nine months of 2015.
In addition to the impact of this reinsurance transaction we experienced more favorable prior year loss reserve development driven by our U.S.
and international insurance segments.
The more favorable development in the U.S.
insurance segment is primarily due to experiencing favorable development on our inland marine product in our global insurance division for 2015 compared to adverse development in 2014 as well as the impact of adverse development on our architects and engineers and brokerage excess and umbrella product lines in 2014.
The more favorable development in the international segment in 2015 is driven by case reserve reductions for a small number of large general liability and professional liability claims.
Lastly our 2014 results included $27 million of adverse development on our asbestos and environmental reserves.
We completed our 2015 asbestos and environmental review in the third quarter without adjustment to held reserves.
Before moving on I would also like to comment on the second asbestos and environmental reinsurance transaction which we reported as a subsequent event in our Form 10-Q.
Late last week we completed a retrospective reinsurance transaction to seed a portion of our U.S.
asbestos and environmental exposures.
The impact to earnings if any resulting from a change in the estimated volatility of our consolidated net reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as a result of this transaction will be reflected in our fourth quarter results of operation.
While we recognize that the two 2015 seeded reinsurance transactions related to our asbestos and environmental reserves will have the short-term impact of reducing investment income we have significantly reduced the future uncertainty around these exposures and have increased our flexibility regarding capital allocation.
Moving on to Markel Ventures on a year-to-date basis revenues from Markel Ventures were $784 million compared to $595 million in the same period a year ago.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures for the nine-month period was $14 million in 2015 compared to $16 million in 2014.
EBITDA was $76 million in 2015 compared to $66 million in 2014.
The increase in revenues from our Markel Ventures operations during 2015 was primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July of 2014.
Additionally we have experienced higher revenues within our other manufacturing operations due in part to higher sales volume in 2015 compared to 2014.
Likewise EBITDA from our Markel Ventures operations increased in 2015 primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell and more favorable results within our manufacturing operation.
This increase was partially offset by an increase in our estimate of the contingent consideration obligation associated with the acquisition of Cottrell.
As I mentioned last quarter a portion of the purchase consideration for Cottrell is based on their post-acquisition earnings through 2015 which we expect will exceed our initial projection.
As a result our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration increased by $27 million in 2015.
The decrease in Markel Ventures’ net income for the first nine months of 2015 is also a result of the contingent consideration adjustment for Cottrell.
Turning to our investment results net investment income for the first nine months of 2015 was essentially flat to a year ago coming in at $271 million.
Net realized investment losses for 2015 were $3 million compared to net realized investment gains of $29 million a year ago.
The net realized investment losses in 2015 were driven by $23 million adjustment for other than temporary impairments attributable to equity securities.
Net realized investment gains in 2014 included $4 million of other than temporary impairments.
Net unrealized investment gains decreased $397 million for the first nine months of 2015 compared to an increase of $499 million for the same period last year.
The declines in net unrealized investment gains this year was attributable to the decrease in the fair value of our equity and fixed maturity portfolios compared to prior year end.
Looking at our total results for the year our effective tax rate was 21% in 2015 compared to 25% a year ago.
The decrease in the tax rate in 2015 was driven by foreign tax credits for foreign taxes paid.
In previous periods taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions were not available for use of tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
In 2015 we anticipate a sufficient amount of earnings from our foreign operations will be taxable in the U.S.
This will allow us to recognize the benefit of significant foreign tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
A similar benefit may not be available in future years.
We reported net income to shareholders of $385 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to $204 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income for the period was $98 million compared to $517 million a year ago.
And as a result book value per share at the end of September 2015 was $552 an increase of 1% since the end of 2014.
Finally I will make a couple of comments on cash flows and the balance sheet.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $550 million for the first nine months of 2015 compared to $537 million for the same period of 2014.
Operating cash flows for 2015 included higher cash flows from our Markel Ventures operations partially offset by higher payments for income taxes compared to the same period of 2014.
Operating cash flows for the period was net of approximately $70 million of cash paid in connection with the first quarter 2015 asbestos and environmental reinsurance transaction that I have previously mentioned and $29 million of cash paid to complete innovation that transferred our obligations under a reinsurance contract for life and annuity benefits through a third party.
Invested assets at the holding company were $1.3 billion at September 30 2015 compared to $1.5 billion at December 31 2014.
With that I will turn it over to Mike to talk about the U.S.
insurance segment.
Thanks Anne good morning.
As we have mentioned earlier the U.S.
Insurance segment comprises all direct business written on our U.S.
insurance companies and it includes all of the underwriting results for wholesale and specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance team.
Gross written premiums for the U.S.
segment were $1.9 billion for the first nine months of 2015 an increase of 1% over prior year.
This increase was due to continued growth in our wholesale division casualty lines as well as our Hagerty classic car program and our workers comp product lines both within our specialty division.
Probably offsetting this favorability are declines in our wholesale property excess and umbrella and environmental ads.
As mentioned in previous calls we have also exited certain lines of business.
We maintained our underwriting discipline throughout the year.
The U.S.
Insurance segment combined ratio for the third quarter of 2015 was 90% compared to 95% for the same period a year ago.
The combined ratio for the year was 89% compared to 97% for the nine months ended September 30 2014.
The decrease in the combined ratio for the year is driven by more favorable development of prior year – prior accident year’s loss reserves as well as lower current accident year loss ratio and a lower expense ratio.
Prior year losses were favorable by two points driven by favorable development in our Global Insurance division in 2015 primarily our Inland Marine product line compared to adverse developments in 2014.
The current accident year loss ratio benefited from lower attritional losses across each of our divisions.
And finally the decrease in our expense ratio was primarily due to higher earned premiums in our specialty division driven by the premium growth I mentioned earlier as well as lower general expenses.
The rate environment in North America remains challenging as has been the case throughout 2015.
We are still achieving modest single-digit rate increases on our smaller accounts in the specialty and excess and surplus funds divisions.
The large account excess property and casualty business in our global division is still under significant rate pressure.
We are experiencing more opportunities in the global professional and marine lines.
In September a number of our Markel professionals attended the NAPSLO conference in San Diego and we conducted over 300 individual meetings during the conference and the atmosphere was one of the cautious optimism.
In early October professionals from our specialty and global divisions attended the CIAB Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers conference in Colorado Springs.
The information garnered from numerous meetings with our agents and brokers in attendance supported our belief that there remains stronger opportunity for profitable growth in our specialty E&amp;S and certain global lines of business despite current market conditions.
During the quarter our product line leadership made progress on several new products that will be available in 2016.
And the product line leadership is also working on new filings and enhancements to aid existing products.
We continue to focus on expense management and operational efficiency with the same commitment that we give to underwriting profitability.
Our talent pool is as strong or stronger than it’s ever been and we are continuing to recruit bench strength wherever possible.
We remain confident in our ability to continue to produce solid results with superior talent underwriting discipline and expense management.
Richie? Thanks Mike and good early morning to everybody.
I am just going to say if we keep this early start time I am going to try to do next quarter’s call from our London offices.
Today I am going to focus my comments on our underwriting results for the first nine months of 2015 for both the International Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
Both segments continue to produce outstanding underwriting results through the third quarter of this year.
First I will start with International Insurance segment which includes business written by our Markel International division as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance division.
For the year gross written premiums declined just over 1% to $912 million.
The year-to-date combined ratio was 87% compared to 95% in the prior year.
The decrease in premium writings is primarily due to the continued impact of the strong U.S.
dollar.
Excluding currency impacts gross written premium volumes actually increased 4% for the year due to continued growth in our Professional Liability product lines in both divisions as well as growth across multiple product lines in the Markel International division.
The lower segment combined ratio was driven by more favorable prior year takedowns partially offset by a higher expense ratio.
Prior year losses were favorably – favorable by 12 points driven by higher redundancies in the Markel International division across multiple product lines.
We also experienced stable development in our Global Insurance division which had slight adverse development through nine months in 2014.
The expense ratio has increased nearly four points due to higher profit sharing cost higher general expenses and lower earned premium this year.
Next I will discuss the results in the Reinsurance segment which includes three new reinsurance programs written by our Global Reinsurance division as well as that written by our Markel International division.
Gross written premiums for this segment increased 12% for the year to $876 million down from $1 billion a year ago.
The segment is also seeing the effect of the strong U.S.
dollar and excluding currency impacts the decline for the year was 9%.
As we have disclosed we talked about a number of times at the end of last year we made the decision to cease writing UK motor reinsurance business and to take smaller line sizes in our non-standard auto U.S.
book.
This is now – you are now seeing this show up in the year-over-year comparisons of gross written premium volume.
The combined ratio for the Reinsurance segment was 92% compared to 97% last year.
The reduction in the combined ratio was driven by seven point decrease in our loss ratio partially offset by a higher expense ratio.
The decline in the loss ratio was comprised with a lower current accident year loss ratio due to lower property losses in 2015 as well as more favorable development on prior year’s loss reserves across both divisions.
The increase in the expense ratio was due to higher commissions and lower earned premiums this year.
Just a few operational comments when it comes to discussing competition I am starting to feel a little like a broken record each quarter on the earnings call.
As Mike and Anne discussed market conditions remain extremely competitive and that’s very little change from what we reported to you in the first and second quarter this year.
Speculation has now started in earnest on what’s going to happen with rates on the January 1 renewals.
Our expectation is that without some sort of catalyst pressures on rates are going to continue.
As a result underwriting discipline is going to become even more important as we enter 2016.
I would also like to mention that we continue to make good progress towards closing our previous announced CATCo transaction and we expect to close in the next several weeks.
To refresh everyone’s memory CATCo is an insurance linked securities asset manager that currently manages $2.7 billion of retrocessional and traditional reinsurance portfolios for clients around the world.
CATCo’s business generates management and performance fee income on its assets under management.
We expect a smooth and efficient transition of the CATCo business into Markel.
And we have already started planning how our reinsurance operations in CATCo will collaborate going forward to bring our entire suite of traditional reinsurance and ILS products to our cedent clients.
With that I would like to turn it over to Tom to discuss investments and ventures.
Thank you Richie.
The good news at Markel is that we enjoy a set of what I would call structural advantages as we continue to build the long-term value of this company.
And they are as follows.
First we operate a successful insurance business with a long-term record of underwriting profitability.
Second we operate a high-quality and low cost investment operation that amplifies the returns generated from the insurance business.
And third we have a diverse set of majority-owned industrial and service businesses in the form of Markel Ventures that increasingly contributes to our overall results.
Prospectively we can and we will allocate capital among those opportunities in search of the best long-term results.
It’s always the most fun when we can discuss each of those components when all of its cylinders are firing.
The reality though is that’s not always the case and that is the circumstance so far in 2015.
The good news is that even without all cylinders firing we made modest but forward economic progress.
The cylinder that didn’t fire in the first nine months was our investment operation.
Our overall investment returns for the first nine months were a negative 0.3% in local currency terms and a negative 1.2% after the foreign exchange effects.
Equities were down 5.3% and fixed income earned a positive return of 1.3%.
If I have only one word to describe all of our investment operations it would be quality.
In fixed income that’s relatively easy to quantify and describe.
97% of our holdings are rated A or better.
We also do our own credit work in addition to that of the rating agencies.
And I am happy to report to you that our quality is as high as we know how to make it.
In our equity operations we maintain a similar discipline and focus on quality.
Equities are not rated in the same way as bonds and as such I don’t have a statistic to cite which would correlate to quality.
I can assure you though that we underwrite each and every equity security we purchase with thoughtfulness and a desire to own durable long-lasting profitable businesses.
In a world with increasing rates of change that job is getting harder rather than easier but we remain dedicated to our longstanding commitment to this effort.
And I am optimistic that our discipline will continue to serve us well.
Tactically after several years where we left the duration of the fixed income portfolio decrease due to our concern about the possibility of higher overall levels of interest rates we now are at the point where we expect to keep our duration from coming in anymore.
Including cash and short-term holdings the overall duration at the end of the third quarter stood at slightly less than four years.
A normal number for us would be between four and five depending on the nature of our insurance reserves.
So as you can see we are as we have been a bit short of that duration target.
We will work to try to keep the duration between the four and five-year bandwidth as we reinvest maturities and cash flows.
On the equity side our allocation as a percentage of Markel’s total shareholders’ equity the equity securities stands at 54% on September 30 compared to 55% at year end 2014.
Historically this number has ranged between roughly 50% and 80% over the last 25 years.
That allocation is a residual of our views on finding specific investment opportunities which meet our four-part thought process as well as our overall view of our insurance operation opportunities and the overall investment markets.
As you can see we have got some dry powder on our balance sheet.
I think the option value of having quickly available capital to deploy as opportunities present themselves is a big advantage for Markel going forward.
I would also add that we incur very little in the way of opportunity costs in doing so given the low overall level of yields and investment returns all along the curve.
Additionally I think it’s worth pointing out that at cost our equity portfolio has a dividend yield of over 3%.
In short we are getting the yields we would get on fixed income and the upside of owning equity securities in the current environment.
While that number is based on historical costs it isn’t too hard to pencil out similar dynamics for the equities we are buying today.
Oftentimes current dividend yields roughly equal what we could get on high-quality fixed income securities.
One or two dividend increases starts to open up a gap in our favor over time.
At Markel Ventures we are enjoying a very solid year overall.
Revenues advanced $784 million from $594 million a year ago.
As we spoke about in the second quarter we have the very high class problem that one of our recent acquisitions is doing better than we have projected at the time of purchase.
As such the earn-out payments associated with that deal are higher that we first forecast.
We are accounting for that payment as an expense item in 2015 rather than capitalizing those costs.
This item will be fully accounted for this year.
We are reporting EBITDA for Markel Ventures of $76 million versus $66 million a year ago.
If you adjust for this one item the run rate for EBITDA would be in excess of $100 million for the first nine months of the year.
Within Markel Ventures some of our businesses tend to correlate quite highly with the overall level of the U.S.
economy.
We have had a very good year in those businesses.
We understand the basic cyclicality inherent in those operations and we fully expect their results will fluctuate over time.
That said we are very happy with the returns on capital being generated by these companies over reasonable time periods and we would be delighted to own more of these kinds of businesses.
While we would like to own more Markel Ventures type businesses it seems that the rest of the world would like to do so as well.
As such we have regularly encountered pricing that goes beyond what we think we should pay and we have remained disciplined and on the sideline so far in 2015.
We continue to actively engage in many discussions and I am confident that we will productively deploy capital in certain special circumstances as well as in a more favorable overall pricing environment in the future.
Meanwhile we continue to learn from and support our successful managers of these operations.
We also continue to look for ongoing opportunities to improve across each and every company within Markel Ventures.
We will never stop doing so.
As I said at the beginning of my comments we enjoy a unique set of structural advantages at Markel.
In a rapidly changing world our first and foremost advantage remains our unchanging deeply rooted culture as described by the words of the Markel Style first penned in 1986.
Your management team and all the people of this organization looks forward to meeting the challenges of building on our worldwide set of insurance investment and industrial and service opportunities.
And now we would welcome the chance to answer any questions.
With that Denise? Thank you Mr.
Gayner.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question this morning will come from Jeff Schmidt of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning  With the CATCo acquisition closing I guess at the end of the year here is there still an appetite for M&amp;A in ‘16 or what are your thoughts on that? I will attempt that one and you guys kick in anytime.
Jeff we have been inquisitive over the years.
And Tom was talking about the current environment right now there is certainly companies out there that we think would be nice strategic fits with the Markel.
But the problem seems to be right now a lot of other people seem to think those companies would be great strategic fits as well.
So the things we would look for when we – when we are doing acquisitions is that culture has to be a fit it’s number one.
It needs to be a great strategic fit good reason for it.
And then obviously it’s got be at a fair price and that’s probably the one we are having the most trouble with right now.
I will let – I completely concur with Richie’s comments.
And we are hunting all the time.
And sometimes frankly we get surprised by the opportunity we would come across just as much as you are.
So we know about it a little bit before you do but we will keep hunting them we will keep you posted.
Okay.
And then on the pricing front with pricing remaining pretty difficult here are you seeing any of the standard writers move-in in some of the E&amp;S lines more than usual or…? Yes.
Jeff this is Mike.
I have been in this business for – this is now my fifth decade.
And whenever you have the pricing situation we have today you are going to have the standard carriers moving into the E&amp;S space.
And I think the advantage that we have is that we have not one insurance divisions not just an insurance division but we have our U.S.
specialty business we have our global business and we have the international business.
So market conditions are competitive but as I have mentioned in my comments come on the smaller U.S.
based business we are still getting modest rate increases but certainly in this type of environment we are going to see the standard carriers move in but they will also move out as they have in the past.
Jeff if I could one editorial comment to that.
Obviously the investment side was the toughest part of the house for us.
But we breathe the same air as everybody else.
The investment operation – environment we are operating in is the same that every insurance company is.
So while everything is competitive I don’t think anybody is under the delusion that they can operate on a sloppy fashion on the underwriting side and make it up on investments.
So the nature and tone of competition and where that bar is set in terms of underwriting profitability is lower this time around than what it would have been in previous cycles so that’s somewhat good news.
It’s hard to get the volumes and we have to compete for every piece of business that we have.
But I think everybody is competing in a more disciplined fashion than they were in previous cycles.
And that’s a function of both lower level of investment returns and better underwriting data and technology that gives people better insights into what the costs or what they are writing are.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just a few questions let me start with CATCo Richie maybe if – it seems like that’s a little bit less typical of a normal Markel acquisition maybe you can just talk a little bit about how that fits in what some of the ambitions you might have for it.
And then I guess the other question I have related to CATCo is that going to be folded into the international unit or is it going to be picked up as one of the other segments? Sure.
Well first I will take the easy one first.
Markel-CATCo as it will be called when going forward we are going to set that – since it is a little bit different as you recognize Mark it’s going to sit alongside our reinsurance division.
And we expect Tony Belisle who is going to be running CATCo for us and Jed Rhoads who runs our reinsurance division those two teams are going to be working very closely together because we think there is a lot of synergies a lot of opportunities to collaborate across those two platforms.
So they will sit beside each other in that array of product set we hope to make available to our ceded clients.
You did mention it’s a little bit different than what we have done before.
And the reality is the insurance market is a little bit different than what it was 5 years or 10 years ago.
Insurance-linked security business alternative capital those people called it initially it’s just simply capital now has been coming into our market over the last 5 years 10 years.
And that trend is going to continue quite honestly.
And it’s going to continue to become more and more meaningful.
We have got a small taste of that with our purchase of Alterra with their New Point facility that they have had for quite a long time before the acquisition.
And Jed Rhoads and myself we talked about the fact we felt like we needed to be more meaningful in that ILS space going forward.
And CATCo provided us that opportunity.
And like I said we really view that as kind of extending our product set across the reinsurance base both traditional and ILS.
And then going forward we hope to develop new products and that could potentially mean moving into different areas of insurance as opposed to just reinsurance.
And Mark I will add one editorial comment here too.
And while you correctly categorized this as being different than what we have been doing to-date.
Frankly that’s typical of almost every deal we have ever done.
Part to do the reason to do the acquisitions we have done over our 30-year history as a public company is to learn to expand to recognize that the world keeps changing and we pick up people and skills and talents and opportunities that we didn’t have internally.
And I think that is an absolutely typical and recurring feature of Markel’s and will continue to be.
Just a follow-up on the some of that to characterize CATCo is the skill set here is this an underwriting skill set or is this more of a brokerage and asset management or placement type of skill set.
I guess I am trying to be clear on which bit of the house you are bringing to bear in making this ultimately successful? Well there is really two skill sets.
The one that in my mind is the preeminent skill set is the underwriting and that’s where we spend a tremendous amount of time was understanding and getting comfortable with the underwriting that CATCo does.
And we believe they do a fantastic job of underwriting the business.
So it’s a skill set we are very familiar with.
We are underwriters at heart at Markel.
The ILS combines two skill sets.
It brings that underwriting skill set to the table along with raising funds.
It’s a fund manager.
So the other skill set and the one that Tony and his team possesses is the ability to go out and explain the story that CATCo has and the skill set that they have to investors such that they are willing to invest in the funds.
So it is a bit of a hybrid and it’s a model quite honestly that we are going to see more and more in our industry.
Okay that’s helpful on that.
Let me ask the second question changing gears to the tax rate you have documented throughout the year kind of the pluses and minuses on that.
I guess this quarter this was primarily a true-up to get to now that you can have some better visibility of full year results to kind of true your full year provision into that 21% odd full year rate? That’s right.
The rate is now...
It’s just a mechanic to get there.
Right.
So all else equal would it make sense that the fourth quarter number would be somewhere in that same ballpark? Should be I think...
But then still – go ahead.
Sorry.
Go ahead Mark.
Well I was just going to say then but still no view yet on next year as to whether there is any likelihood that this credit will carry forward into ‘16 outlook? So I don’t believe today that the credit will carry forward but it’s hard to know for sure.
We would likely think next year would be more typical in the mid to high-20s from a tax rate.
The real story on the tax rate this year is higher pretax income than we projected which is a good news story that results in tax rate sort of bouncing around.
Okay.
And then a third question I had related to the new asbestos environmental retro that you did to the extent that ultimately produces any gains or losses I think you mentioned there was a $10 million odd gain or loss rather in – on the initial transaction before any re-visitation of reserve setting is that going to show up in the other segment or is that going to be in one of the North American segments? It should show up in the other segment.
Got it.
That’s all my questions.
Thanks.
Alright.
Thanks Mark.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from James Davis of Silver Point Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a long track record of great performance.
Thank you.
The 15% compound book value growth track record is what caused us to take a look at the company.
And as we have been doing our diligence we have noticed some changes in the company that suggests that book value growth is likely to be meaningfully lower in the future but we wanted to get your thoughts to make sure we are thinking about this the right way? The two big changes that seem to have taken place at the company are first investment leverage has declined meaningfully.
10 to 20 years ago investments were about four times your book value but today this is only about half that 2.1 times your book value.
And second investment yields have declined meaningfully.
10 to 20 years ago portfolio yields were in the 5% range versus to 2.2% today.
So our math suggests these two factors combine to create a pre-tax ROE drag of about 15% relative to previous periods making it tough to get that double-digit ROE without a significant rally in the equity market? And we seem to be seeing this play out this year as a relatively minor hiccup in the equity markets has resulted in flat book value growth for the year.
Are we missing something or have these changes made historical returns very tough to meet going forward? Yes this is Tom.
I will try to take those.
Compared to 10 or 20 years ago I think you are correct.
I mean the amount of premium leverage we can get relative to our equity capital is lower.
Now specifically what we can do in the face of that is that we can increase the allocation to higher total returns theories because the reason we would have the fixed income portfolio is predominantly to over-collateralize the insurance liabilities and the claim spends that we expect to make.
So if we have less leverage and we are writing less business what that means is we can allocate a higher percentage of the portfolio to equities where we would expect to pickup higher return.
The second pool you mentioned is the lower overall investment yields.
I would agree with that.
I would also suggest that that the higher yields occurred during a period of higher inflation.
So nominal yields are lower but real yields have not decreased as much.
So nominally it’s a lower return environment that’s correct.
But in a real sense if we make high single-digit low double-digit returns in a zero interest rate world both the nominal yields and the inflation circumstance that we faced that will be a spectacular economic outcome.
And we are optimistic about our ability to do so.
Okay got it.
Got it.
That makes sense.
And then with the equities as you mentioned previously on the call you are currently at kind of 54% of book value versus the historical range of 50% to 80%.
So in terms of the opportunity to increase to higher return assets we are not necessarily seeing that right now.
Is there an intention to increase that allocation to try to makeup for that difference is the first question? Then I guess on the second question makes perfect sense lower inflation lower nominal yields.
I guess are we right to think that that just translates into lower nominal ROEs as well going forward relative to what we have seen in the past? Yes.
I mean that’s the math of lower nominal ROEs.
But in real terms as I said we are going to try and do the best we can.
And in real terms we have generated excellent returns for a long time and hope we have the formula in place to continue to do so.
In terms of the additional allocations to the equity portfolio whisper some good ideas to me after the call and we will put it to work.
But just like the acquisition question we work all day everyday looking for things.
At the moment we are driving down the road tapping the brakes a little bit just as a function of being picky about what we buy.
But as we see things and we hunt for them everyday we do have the capital to put money into the equity portfolio and we would love to do so when we see it.
It makes perfect sense.
And so did I hear correctly that in the current environment the view is the kind of high single moving into the low double-digit would be a great outcome? Yes.
We don’t make forward-looking forecasts or any expectations of that sort but when you penciled out the math that you did I don’t think you are doing that incorrectly.
Got it.
And then just final question we have always admired the discipline at the company.
And like you said there is a lot of headwinds in the market right now the investment leverage and rates which we talked about.
But like you pointed out pricing is weakening equity markets are a little more difficult trading in elevated multiples on above trend margins.
The private acquisitions are certainly tougher given the prices out there today.
And in terms of your core business like you said accretive acquisitions are tougher as it seems like there’s an M&amp;A premium kind of built into everything that’s trading out there.
Is the right way to think about Markel right now that it’s a tough environment you have reduced leverage you are kind of retrenching and will have a period of lower returns but as the market changed there will be the ability to play more offense and move to higher returns at some point in the future? Well let me split that.
And I think Richie alluded to this a bit in his discussion of CATCo.
It’s always tough.
Markets are always competitive.
So I don’t think there’s anything new about that than what has been the case during all of the time that the record you speak so kindly of looks great it’s always tough.
But break capital into two forms.
There is financial capital and there’s intellectual capital.
Financial capital is what a lot of people have a lot of.
I mean there’s a lot of money flashing around everything and that leads to the comments about it turns into too pricey an acquisition pricing things of that nature.
But intellectual capital that’s scarce and that’s where the returns really can be generated.
So just like Richie was talking about the creativity behind the folks at CATCo and what they are doing a good portion of the returns they generate is because they thought of stuff.
They were creative and they applied intellectual capital.
That is similarly the case in the Markel Ventures operations.
We are looking at businesses that have the markets they have and have the customers they have because they creatively have found a way to take care of their customers.
And they tend to operate in markets that are not distorted by big gobs of financial capital.
Similarly you look at the historical set of businesses that Markel underwrites in our insurance world we need expertise.
We need creativity.
We need people who know what they are doing in different and unique lines of business.
And there is really nothing about that that changes.
And I think creativity intellectual capital will always be able to earn a return.
The other opportunity that we have and that’s been proven out in the past with acquisitions like Com-Co and FirstComp and others is that there are a number of private industries out there that would fit with Markel and the principles of those industries don’t necessarily sell to the highest price.
We were successful in some of those acquisitions because the principles were looking for a long-term place and a good fit for their employees and for themselves and for patient capital for the long term to continue doing what they were doing rather than be gobbled up and chopped up and stripped and flipped and whatever.
So I think those opportunities still exist and will present themselves to us over the next few years as well.
We weren’t the highest price in some of those deals.
Got it.
That’s a huge advantage.
And we compete against the same gobs of capital so we understand exactly what you are going through.
Appreciate your answering the questions.
I guess our last thought is just when we look at the current valuation of the stock it seems like the market is expecting the same future returns as what they have seen in the past in terms of the stock trading at 1.5 times book value.
And that’s kind of the root of the questions.
We think the franchise is very valuable.
The opportunity is very valuable.
We are just trying to figure out right now kind of what price makes sense? Thanks so much.
And we don’t comment on valuation but we interest in your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question will come from David West of Davenport &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Mike a question for you.
I guess my grasp on time is not real good but you have been in the workers’ comp business now at least three or four years.
And could you talk give a little more color about pricing trends in workers’ comp? And also are you making underwriting profits in that line of business now? The answer is yes that’s been a tremendous success story.
When we acquired FirstComp I guess it was 2010 there was work to be done there.
And the environment was tough.
Their geographical mix of business some of the other mix of business was not what we thought was the right path for the future.
And Matt Parker who now heads our Specialty Division and Chad Bertucci who is now running FirstComp and the entire team there have absolutely executed on a plan that has been perfect in terms of the restructuring of the business geographically product line pricing wise.
The pressure on the pricing there is not as significant as it is in other lines right now.
And yes they are making underwriting profits.
They have their expense ratio well under control as well as anybody in our business.
And we couldn’t be more pleased with the plan that they executed over a span of two or three years and where they are today.
Okay great.
Thank you for that.
I think in Anne’s comments when you talked about the impairments taken this quarter it was I think mostly on the equity side of things.
Could you provide some color on that? Was that a mechanical process or did one or two securities particularly warrant the impairment charge? Yes there is a mechanical process that triggers the reviews.
That is consistent.
We have been doing it that way for quite some time.
Half of that came from energy securities.
And I don’t have to tell you what went on in the energy markets and oil prices.
To hearken back to the earlier comment I made about quality Exxon is our largest position Schlumberger is our second largest in the energy world.
Those our last men standing in that entire food chain that exists.
And in point of fact and you already see it happening with Schlumberger I mean they have the balance sheet to be able to acquire things during a very tough market.
So we make sure that we invest with people that we think make it to the other side and not only make it to the other side but are better off by the time you get there.
So we don’t have what I would consider speculative energy positions.
Exxon and Schlumberger would account for I don’t know 80% or 90% of the total amount we have in energy.
So I will fight with those guys.
Very good.
Thank you.
And lastly on the Cottrell incremental compensation does that agreement – is that accrual just through the end of this year? Does it carry on into 2016 at all? No.
No done in 2015.
Very good.
Thanks so much.
At this time we will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Tom Gayner for his closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We will chat with you next quarter.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Markel Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
During the call today we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
They are based on current assumptions and opinions concerning a variety of known and unknown risks.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or suggested by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is included under the captions Risk Factors and Safe Harbor and Cautionary Statement in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in the call today.
You may find a reconciliation to GAAP of these measures in the press release which can be found on our website at www.markelcorp.com in the Investor Information section.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Tom Gayner Co-Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Denise and good morning.
Welcome to the fourth quarter of 2015 conference call for the Markel Corporation.
My name is Tom Gayner and I'm joined by my colleagues Anne Waleski Mike Crowley and Richie Whitt.
Anne will brief you on the financial results Mike and Richie will discuss our Insurance operations and then I'll return with some comments on our investment results from Markel Ventures.
As always we thank you for your interest and support of Markel and we look forward to your questions.
With that Anne? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I'm happy to report that 2015 was an outstanding year for our underwriting operations which contributed more than $400 million to pre-tax profits.
We saw improved combined ratios in all three of our ongoing insurance segments.
The favorable impact from underwriting was muted by our investing results which were adversely affected by volatility in the equity markets.
We celebrated the 10 year anniversary of our Markel Ventures operations this year which surpassed $1 billion in revenues for the first time.
We continue to pursue growth opportunities in both our Insurance and Markel Ventures operations.
We are excited about our recent acquisitions of CATCo which expands our presence in the insurance-linked securities market and CapTech a leading management and IT consulting firm providing services to a wide array of customers.
We are proud of our 2015 results and our record of building shareholder value over the last 30 years as a public company.
I want to thank our associates for their contributions in achieving these results.
Our total operating revenues grew 4.6% coming in at $5.4 billion in 2015 from $5.1 billion in 2014.
The increase is driven by higher revenues from Markel Ventures.
Other revenues which include revenues from Markel Ventures were up 23% to $1.1 billion from $884 million last year primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July of 2014 and to higher revenues from other manufacturing affiliates.
Moving to the underwriting results gross written premiums were $4.6 billion for 2015 compared to $4.8 billion in 2014 a decrease of 4% driven by a decline within our Reinsurance segment.
During 2014 we ceased writing auto reinsurance in the U.K.
and we also decreased our non-standard U.S.
auto reinsurance business.
Foreign currency exchange rates also had an unfavorable impact on the year-over-year change in gross written premiums.
However even at a constant rate of exchange gross premium volume declined 2%.
Market conditions continue to be very competitive especially within the property and marine and energy product lines.
Consistent with our historical practices we will not write business when we believe prevailing market rates will not support our underwriting profit targets.
Net written premiums were $3.8 billion down 2% from the prior year while our net retention was in line with prior year at an 82%.
Earned premiums were $3.8 billion for 2015 and decreased slightly compared to prior year.
At a constant rate of exchange earned premiums for 2015 would have increased 2% compared to the same period a year ago.
During the period we saw organic growth in several Specialty division product lines within our U.S.
Insurance segment which was offset by a decline in earned premiums for the Reinsurance segment.
Our consolidated combined ratio for 2015 was an 89% compared to a 95% a year ago.
The decrease in the consolidated combined ratio was driven by a more favorable development on prior year's loss reserves in each of our underwriting segments in 2015 compared to 2014 as well as a lower current accident year loss ratio in 2015 compared to 2014.
The 2015 combined ratio included $628 million of favorable development on prior year loss reserves compared to $436 million in 2014.
The increase in prior year redundancies in 2015 compared to 2014 was due in part to a decrease in the estimated volatility of our consolidated net reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as a result of ceding a significant portion of our asbestos and environmental exposures to a third party during the first and fourth quarters of 2015.
As a result of this decrease in estimated volatility our level of confidence in our net reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses increased.
As a result we reduced prior year loss reserves by $83 million or approximately 2 points on the consolidated combined ratio in order to maintain a consolidated confidence level in a range consistent with our historic levels.
This reduction in prior year loss reserves occurred across all three of our ongoing underwriting segments.
In addition to the impact of these reinsurance transactions we experienced more favorable prior year loss reserve development driven by our U.S.
and International Insurance segments.
The more favorable development in the U.S.
Insurance segment is primarily due to experiencing favorable development on our inland marine product in our Global Insurance division for 2015 compared to adverse development in 2014.
The more favorable development in the International segment in 2015 is driven by lower than expected claims activity on prior accident years and favorable claims settlements in our general liability and marine and energy lines of business.
Now I'll discuss the results of Markel Ventures.
2015 revenues from Markel Ventures were $1 billion compared to $838 million in the same period a year ago.
Net income to shareholders from Markel Ventures for 2015 was $11 million compared to just under $10 million in 2014.
EBITDA was $91 million in 2015 compared to $81 million in 2014.
The increase in revenues from our Markel Ventures operations during 2015 was primarily due to our acquisition of Cottrell in July 2014.
Additionally we have experienced higher revenues within other manufacturing operations due in part to higher sales volume in 2015 compared to 2014.
Net income to shareholders and EBITDA from our Markel Ventures operations increased slightly in 2015 compared to 2014 due to more favorable results in our manufacturing operations in 2015 partially offset by less favorable results in our non-manufacturing operations.
The increase in net income to shareholders and EBITDA in our manufacturing operations in 2015 was due to increased revenues partially offset by an increase in our estimate of the contingent consideration obligation related to the acquisition of Cottrell and to the write-off of goodwill of Diamond Healthcare.
A portion of the purchase consideration for Cottrell is based on Cottrell's post-acquisition earnings through 2015 as defined in the purchase agreement.
During 2015 our estimate of Cottrell's 2015 earnings increased beyond our initial projections.
As a result our estimate of the contingent consideration increased by $31 million during 2015.
The decrease in net income to shareholders and EBITDA in our non-manufacturing operations was primarily attributable to increased expenses at certain of our non-manufacturing operations.
Net income to shareholders and EBITDA in our non-manufacturing operations was net of a goodwill impairment charge of $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 related to Diamond Healthcare.
There was a similar goodwill impairment charge in 2014.
There is no remaining goodwill on our books for Diamond Healthcare.
Turning to our investment results net investment income for 2015 was down slightly coming in at $353 million as compared to $363 million in 2014.
Net realized investment gains for 2015 were $106 million compared to $46 million in 2014.
Net realized investment gains for 2015 include $44 million of write-downs for other than temporary declines in the estimated fair value of investments compared to $5 million of write-downs in 2014.
The 2015 write-downs were all attributable to equity securities.
Net realized gains from the sale of equity securities in 2015 were $156 million compared to $51 million in 2014.
During 2015 we liquidated certain equity securities in our portfolio in light of our outlook on the competitive environment facing this company.
Net unrealized investment gains decreased $320 million for 2015 compared to an increase of $662 million for the same period last year.
The decline in net unrealized investment gains this year was attributable to decreases in the fair value of our equity and fixed maturity portfolios compared to prior year end.
Given our long-term focus variability and the timing of realized and unrealized gains and losses this is to be expected.
Our effective tax rate was 21% in 2015 compared to 26% a year ago.
The decrease in the tax rate in 2015 was driven by foreign tax credits for foreign taxes paid.
Prior to this year taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions were not available for use as tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
In 2015 a sufficient amount of earnings from our foreign operations will be taxable in the U.S.
allowing us to recognize the benefit of these foreign tax credits against our U.S.
provision for income taxes.
A similar benefit may not be available on future years.
Net income to shareholders was $583 million in 2015 and set a record for us.
This compares to $321 million a year ago.
Comprehensive income for the year however was down to $233 million from $936 million a year ago due to the decline in the fair value of the investment portfolio.
Book value per share as at the end of 2015 was $561 an increase of 3% since the end of 2014 due primarily to our 2015 comprehensive income.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $651 million in 2015 compared to $717 million in 2014.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2015 includes cash payments totaling $156 million made in connection with two reinsurance transactions completed in 2015 in which we ceded two portfolios of liabilities arising from asbestos and environmental exposures to a third-party.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2015 also includes a $29 million cash payment made to transfer our obligations under a reinsurance contract for life and annuity benefits to a third-party.
Also in 2015 higher cash flows attributable to our Markel Ventures operations were partially offset by higher payments for income taxes compared to the same period of 2014.
Finally invested assets at the holding company were $1.6 billion at the end of 2015 compared to $1.5 billion at the end of 2014.
With that I will turn it over to Mike to talk about our U.S.
Insurance segment.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning.
As we stated in the past the U.S.
Insurance segment comprises all direct business written on our U.S.
insurance companies and includes all of the underwriting results of our Wholesale and Specialty divisions as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance team.
Gross written premiums for the U.S.
Insurance segment were flat compared to prior year at $614 million for the quarter and $2.5 billion for the year.
Throughout 2015 we experienced continued growth in our Hagerty Classic car program and our workers' comp product lines both within our Specialty division as well as in our Wholesale division casualty lines.
Growth in these product lines was almost entirely offset by declines in our wholesale excess and umbrella environmental and property lines.
These trends continued in the fourth quarter as well.
The combined ratio for the fourth quarter was 87% compared to 90% for the same period a year ago.
The combined ratio for the year was 89% compared to 95% for 2014.
The decrease in the combined ratio for both the year and the quarter is primarily driven by a more favorable development of prior accident years loss reserves as well as a lower expense ratio.
Prior year losses were favorable by over 2 points for the quarter and nearly 4 points for the year compared to 2014.
As Anne discussed this was driven by higher prior year take-downs across the segment due to reductions in the estimated volatility of our net loss reserves which accounted for 3 points of the favorable movement in the quarter and 2 points for the year.
Additionally on a year-to-date basis we experienced favorable prior year development in our Global Insurance division in 2015 primarily on our inland marine product line compared to adverse development in 2014.
The decrease in our expense ratio was primarily due to higher earned premiums driven by a premium growth in the Specialty division which I mentioned earlier as well as lower general expenses.
Operationally with regards to the Specialty division we announced a new organizational structure in the fourth quarter.
This new structure combines the management and operations of Markel FirstComp and our Markel specialty program business and will allow for better strategic decision making across the combined unit which will increase efficiencies.
Our E&amp;S operation capped off an excellent year with a strong fourth quarter performance.
Gross written premium was slightly below prior year due to the exiting of certain lines of business and the re-underwriting of other lines.
The Markel online portal remains a game-changer for us and for our producers.
We had 3 400 unique users utilize the system and we look to grow that number as we expand the portal's capabilities.
Because of this portal we experienced significant growth in our binding business.
In the Global division despite very soft market conditions which depressed topline growth we had a successful year for all product lines due to improving loss picks and prior year development that was better than originally expected.
Our product line leadership under the leadership of Gerry Albanese is committed to maintaining our pricing integrity in the face of the soft market and steady competition.
Large accounts and any cat-exposed property are under a very high level of competition.
For the year on smaller accounts we continue to achieve modest single-digit increases.
Looking back it was a very successful underwriting year for all of our divisions.
Our focus on 2016 is on profitable growth and the divisions have very detailed initiatives underway with our key agents and producers to achieve our goals.
We clearly recognize the challenges that market conditions present and we're prepared to meet those challenges.
Like Anne I want to take this opportunity to thank all of our Markel associates for their outstanding efforts in making 2015 a success.
I'll now turn the call over to Richie.
III - Co-Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Mike.
Good morning everybody.
Today I'm going to focus my comments on the underwriting results for the year for both International Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
Both segments finished the year strong and produced outstanding underwriting results in 2015.
First I'll start with the International Insurance segment which includes business written by our Markel International division as well as certain products written by our Global Insurance division.
Gross written premiums decreased 8% in the quarter and 3% for the year as compared to 2014.
We finished the year at just under $1.2 billion of gross written premium.
As we've been discussing for the past few quarters the decrease in premium writings is primarily due to the continued impact of the strong U.S.
dollar.
Excluding currency impacts gross written premium volume only decreased 3% for the quarter and actually increased 2% for the year.
The increase on a year-to-date basis is due to continued growth in our professional liability product lines in both divisions as well as growth across multiple product lines in the Markel International division.
The decrease in the fourth quarter is primarily due to the continued decline in our Global Insurance property book which is also impacting our year-to-date results.
The fourth quarter combined ratio was an 83% compared to 86% in 2014.
The year-to-date combined ratio was 86% compared to 93% last year.
The lower segment combined ratio for both the fourth quarter and the year was primarily driven by more favorable prior year takedowns partially offset by a higher expense ratio.
Prior year losses were favorable by 4 points for the quarter and 10 points for the year as compared to 2014.
This favorability is driven by higher redundancies in both divisions across multiple product lines.
The segment also saw a benefit related to the decrease in the estimated volatility of our loss reserves which Anne and Mike talked about.
This contributed 7 points of favorability in the quarter and 4 points of the overall decrease for the year.
Finally the year-to-date expense ratio increased 3 points due to higher profit-sharing cost higher general expenses and lower earned premium this year compared to 2014.
For the fourth quarter the expense ratio was 1 point higher than last year due primarily to higher commission rates in both divisions driven by mix of business.
Next I'll discuss the results of the Reinsurance segment which include treaty reinsurance programs written by our Global Reinsurance division as well as those written by our Markel International division.
For the fourth quarter gross written premiums for this segment are down 21% to $90 million compared to 2014.
I will point out fourth quarter is our slowest quarter in terms of premium writings for reinsurance.
For the year writings are down 13% to $965 million down from $1.1 billion a year ago.
Although this segment is also seeing the effects of the strong U.S.
dollar even at a constant rate of exchange gross written premium volume declined 9% for the year.
As Anne said we made the decision in the end of 2014 to cease writing U.K.
motor business and to take much smaller line sizes on our U.S.
non-standard auto book.
This is now impacting our year-over-year comparison of gross written premium volume and it's the primary driver of the decrease in 2015.
For the quarter we also saw a meaningful decrease in our general liability book due to the non-renewal for pricing reasons of a large excess casualty reinsurance program.
The combined ratio for the Reinsurance segment was 83% for the fourth quarter as compared to 93% in 2014.
The combined ratio for the year was 90% compared to 96% last year.
The reduction in the combined ratio for both periods of 2015 was driven by a decrease in our loss ratio.
The decline in the loss ratio is comprised of both a lower current accident year loss ratio due to lower attritional losses across most product lines as well as more favorable development on prior year loss reserves across both divisions.
The prior year loss ratio includes 8 points of favorable movement in the quarter and 2 points for the year due to the decrease in estimated volatility mentioned earlier.
We continue to write a well-balanced book of reinsurance.
Casualty business continues to be our largest line by gross written premium but the profits from property and specialty reinsurance continue to drive earnings as the frequency and severity of reinsurance losses remained unusually low yet another year.
In regards to pricing during the fourth quarter and at the 1/1 renewals quite honestly nothing terribly surprising or different happened.
The international insurance market was generally very competitive with a few positive signs in professional liability where for the lines like financial advisors and construction-related professions we're seeing rate increases of 5%-plus.
That being said these areas have experienced losses and need rate increases.
The pricing of our national market business the term we use for our international retail operations is patchy depending on territory and product but is overall relatively flat.
These policies tend to be smaller and are slightly less price sensitive.
Reinsurance pricing was off 5% to 10%-plus and conditions continue to be very challenging.
However the rate of price decrease slowed significantly during 2015 and at the January 1 renewals.
In all areas of our business we're maintaining our underwriting discipline and committing to our core clients.
At the same time we've tried to deemphasize our exposure to non-core clients and poorly priced risk.
We want to steer clear situations where it's just a trade and low price wins.
Finally in December we closed the acquisition of CATCo a Bermuda-based insurance-linked security and asset manager that generates management and performance fee income on its assets under management.
In 2015 CATCo managed approximately $2.7 billion of retrocession and traditional reinsurance portfolios for clients around the world.
For 2016 trading under the name Markel CATCo we expect assets under management to comfortably exceed $3 billion as we've seen continued strong interest from both investors and ceding.
(24:41) CATCo's pricing for its January 1 renewals was relatively flat.
I'd like to add my thanks to all the Markel associates.
It was an absolutely fabulous year.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Richie.
Last Sunday during the Super Bowl we got to witness the importance of a great defense.
And I don't profess to be a football expert but I think it is fair to say defense of the Denver Broncos was spectacular and that they wouldn't have won the game without it.
In 2015 we emphasized defense in our investment operations as well.
We did so through the following specific actions.
First we maintained our high credit quality profile in our fixed income operations.
Secondly we kept our equity exposure at the low end of our range for equity investments over the last 25 years.
Thirdly we maintained a strong and highly liquid balance sheet in order to be ready to actively deploy the funds when conditions warrant doing so.
These primary actions along with other decisions allow us to be in a great position to play first-class defense and make sure that we are fully prepared to take advantage of investment opportunities and Markel Ventures' additions as available.
As to the specific numbers despite the challenges presented by very low interest rates and investment returns we reported an overall return in local currency of 0.5%.
In our equity portfolio we were down 2.9% and in our fixed income portfolio we were up 1.6%.
After a 1.2% drag from the foreign currency effects the net return is a negative 0.7%.
As a reminder we do our best to match our foreign currency insurance liabilities to foreign currency-denominated assets.
As such the explicit costs you see in the investment returns is largely offset by an equal and opposite benefit in the underwriting results.
2015's equity market featured a very small list of stocks that went up massively and a very long list of stocks that declined to greater and lesser degrees.
In general I think the direction of those moves got it right in terms of long-term business prospects but the magnitude in both directions was perhaps a bit overdone.
In response we maintained a higher than normal percentage of the investment portfolio in fixed income and cash with equities as I mentioned at the low end of our historical range.
I anticipate that as is usually the case the extreme dispersions of outcomes that we witnessed in 2015 will moderate over time and we are well prepared with cash on hand to take advantage of that circumstance as it unfolds.
I'm also pleased with the aggregate results at Markel Ventures.
We enjoyed particularly strong results in our cyclical transportation-related businesses and satisfactory results for most of the rest of our operations.
We continue to face challenges in our healthcare-related businesses and we continue to change and adapt in those areas to improve results.
Overall for Markel Ventures we reported revenues of little over $1 billion compared to $838 million a year ago and EBITDA of $91 million compared to $81 million a year ago.
This year's EBITDA includes a charge of $31 million related to the earn-out provisions for the better than expected performance at our Cottrell acquisition.
We reported on this to you for the last several quarters.
It also includes a goodwill impairment charge of $15 million related to Diamond Healthcare.
Ironically the good news at Cottrell and the challenging news at Diamond got reported the same way as a reduction in EBITDA.
As we entered 2016 the slate is clean on both fronts.
The earn-out period at Cottrell is completed and the goodwill balance at Diamond stands at zero.
As such 2016's results will not be affected by the same factors again.
Also in December we announced the acquisition of a minority – of majority interest in CapTech Consulting a management consulting firm with an emphasis on information technology services.
We've known many of the people and much about the work of CapTech for many years and we are pleased that they are joining Markel Ventures.
We expect ongoing excellent financial results at the firm and we also believe that Markel will benefit from direct exposure to the technology skills within CapTech.
As we begin 2016 we remain optimistic at Markel.
Our underwriting operations continue to produce underwriting profits and cash flow to be invested.
Our fixed income portfolio is of the highest quality we can find.
Our equity portfolio is comprised of a set of companies that meet our long-standing four-part test of profitable businesses run by honest and talented managers with reinvestment opportunities and capital discipline at fair prices.
Our Markel Ventures companies represent a robust and diversified set of businesses with a decade-long record of producing cash.
And finally we have a strong and liquid balance sheet that anchors our position through market turbulence and serves as the base for deploying capital as opportunities present themselves.
That's a good position from which to operate in 2016 and beyond and we look forward to making the most of it.
With that we look forward to your questions.
Denise could you be so kind as to open up the floor? Thank you sir.
And our first question will come from Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
A few questions; can I start with the asbestos reinsurance transaction? It commented in the press release that you recorded a $10 million charge in the quarter which I think you told us about last quarter out.
And then the release went on to say that there's a $15 million addition to loss reserves.
Were those things one and the same or should I think of that as a $25 million impact in the quarter collectively? Well it's a $25 million impact in the quarter related to two separate entries if you will although they are related.
Once we did the second transaction and the portfolio that we retained was smaller we went back and looked at what was left in the portfolio and the actuaries determined that they needed to make an adjustment to the reserves.
So just to clarify there was a $10 million loss related specifically to the transaction itself.
And then there was a $15 million add to reserves within that unit.
But then you enjoyed reserve benefits in the other units related to reduced volatility? That's correct.
III - Co-Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Okay.
I think that's got it.
The second question and I think Tom you probably addressed it generally.
I just want to clarify my understanding.
Within Markel Ventures there was $15 million of goodwill impairment on Diamond Health.
What portion if any of the Cottrell adjustment of the $35 million or $31 million rather was within the fourth quarter as compared to the full-year? Fourth quarter $4 million $5 million – we started talking about that in the second quarter.
Of the $31 million it was spread out second third and fourth quarter; $4 million-ish in the fourth.
$4 million-ish okay.
Okay.
The second question that I had related to investments was you took a substantial realized gain in the quarter; it's probably the largest one I can ever recall.
Was that spread out over a number of securities or was it just a particular one or two that you may have exited? Well A) I was very happy to have that gain to be there.
So that's a good thing and we do indeed like to see the unrealized depreciation there.
The timing of realized gains as we've talked about that – it is the largest one we've ever had the spread out over a number of securities will be filed in our 13F I think on Friday.
So you'll see it but there's more than one name.
Okay.
I knew the filings would be along before too long.
I'm not particularly worried about exactly which one.
I was just concerned whether it was one giant exit or whether it was I'll say somewhat tactical in terms of trimming across the number of areas.
Sounds like more of the latter.
The last question I have relates to the expense ratio.
For both the quarter and for the year it was a little bit elevated.
I think it was mostly in the International segment but I was wondering if somebody could provide just a little more detail related to that.
I think probably the biggest driver across the board was incentive comp accrual.
As you can see by the results we had a very good year and we share that good result with all of our associates.
And so the big driver in the increase in the expense ratio has been the incentive comp accrual.
III - Co-Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And Mark this is Richie.
Maybe I'll elaborate a little bit there.
As you know our underwriting pools our underwriting bonus plans are paid out over a number of years.
So we can see how things develop to make sure we're fair to both the individual and to the company.
Obviously as you can see from our releases we had a very large prior year release this year.
When that happens we have to put up additional bonus accruals that sort of to some extent offset those releases.
So some of that wonderful news we have on the loss side we need to put something up on the expense side for it.
So when you look at the increase in the expense ratios it is mostly related to that.
So it's a good thing if you can believe it or not.
I think the other items that you mentioned the International segment was due to the changes that we made in the Reinsurance portfolio the International segment's earned premium came down some as well.
So they sort of get it from both sides.
III - Co-Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll stop there.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Mark Hughes of Lafayette Investments.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Tom probably for you at least part of it.
A two-part question related to interest rates if I might.
You've been dealing with low interest rates for many years now.
And interest rates have turned negative in parts of the world.
Can you talk about how this affects how you invest your considerable cash and fixed income investments some of which must be in countries with negative rates? And while the math of rates moving say from positive 0.5% to 0% may be similar to the math of moving from 0% to negative 0.5% psychologically it does feel different.
Are you doing anything different? And related to this subject are negative rates affecting the insurance side of the operation at all? With fixed income returns so abysmal are you seeing any signs that insurers are changing pricing to try and make up for this lost investment income? I'm not seeing a lot of signs of that yet.
Are you seeing anything different? Right.
Well I appreciate the question.
And I think you asked a couple of different questions which is the appropriate way to do it because there are a lot of different strands and aspects to fulsomely answering the questions that you're asking about.
So first off given the overall low interest rate environment that exists no matter where you are the need for underwriting profitability to earn any sort of return at all goes up.
You saw excellent underwriting results around here last year and the targets that would be set the hurdle rates for people to earn the incentive compensation that they've earned those have been coming down over the last several years to reflect the business environment that we operate in.
So there is that need for increased underwriting profitability.
And that's not a unique situation for Markel that's any insurance mechanism at all.
And while conditions are hypercompetitive in the insurance market as well as pretty much every other business I look at there is a reasonably rational basis of competition out there.
You're not seeing wild cowboys that are operating with huge underwriting losses thinking they can make it up on investment income because nobody I think is under that delusion and that is indeed different than what might have been the case 10 years 20 years ago.
I think those interest rates are a symptom of the excess capital that exists again not just in the insurance business but in general.
There's just a bunch of capital everywhere so the central banks may have opinions about what interest rates should be but there's also the fundamental laws of supply and demand and interest rates are hugely influenced by market factors as much as what central banks might do.
Specifically what we can do as a result of that as I spoke on the insurance side we need to make sure that we're operating in a very disciplined fashion and make probably (39:03) more rather than less in the realm of underwriting profits.
And on the investment side for a while for a couple of years we had been having a shorter maturity of the investment portfolio than our insurance liabilities because I was worried about interest rates going up.
About mid-year last year I decided that I was wrong and that as the phrase goes rates were likely lower for longer.
And we started to extend the maturity of the bond portfolio a bit.
And in this environment until further notice we'll operate in a more (39:39) than we were a couple of years before that.
Now once you go out further on the curve it's not like you make a lot of money but you can at least chase away the negative interest rate going in but not a whole lot of fun.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question will come from David West of Davenport &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Morning.
Anne first one for you.
In the commentary in the press release you noted the tax rate benefited about 8% from the use of foreign tax credits; not likely to repeat itself to the same degree in 2016.
Could you maybe I guess the question gets to what are your expectations for an effective tax rate in 2016? I think expectations for 2016 would be similar to where we've been in the last few years in the mid-20%s mid-to-high 20%s.
Okay very good.
So you may still get some benefit from foreign tax credits just not to the same degree? Well it's not clear today whether we'll get that benefit or not.
And given some of what's going on relative to potential changes in tax laws it's also not entirely clear today what 2016 will look like.
So taking our usual conservative stance we're just reverting to what we know from history and assuming it'll be sort of mid-20%s.
All right.
Great.
Thank you for that.
Richie then I turn to you on the reinsurance side and this the CATCo acquisition I know they're asset management unit not an underwriting unit but I would certainly think their expertise could potentially benefit the reinsurance operations.
Could you talk a little bit about the potential synergies with CATCo and is that going to remain in the other reporting segment? III - Co-Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Dave.
Yeah I think there clearly are synergies there.
CATCo and our reinsurance operations share many of the same clients.
And the clients have needs at times for traditional reinsurance and other times they may decide a capital market solution is a better fit for what they're trying to achieve.
So having the ability to write both traditional products as well as the capital market-backed products especially CATCo it has a rather unique product structure.
I think that just helps us better serve the clients that are out there.
Actually since the acquisition or after the announcement of the acquisition we've seen interests from people who were not previously clients of CATCo.
So there's going to be opportunities for our guys on the reinsurance side and CATCo guys to work together to make sure we're serving those client needs.
It's been a busy – both teams are really consumed at 1/1 with renewals so it's a big time of year for them.
So as soon as the dust clears from that we'll be getting together to talk about new product opportunities.
And we do think there'll be some good new product opportunities.
I guess the last thing I would just say is we have been very pleased to see growth in assets under management right out of the gate.
Quite honestly we're not expecting that but there's been quite a bit of investor interest as well as additional ceding demand and that was good news for us as we get off to a start here in 2016.
Very very helpful.
Thank you.
Tom maybe talk a little bit about the non-manufacturing activities at Ventures and your outlook for that in 2016? Yeah.
Like I said weak results of the non-manufacturing side were dominated by healthcare and we've written off the goodwill associated with Diamond.
So the slate's clean.
The rest of those operations in the non-manufacturing had a nice steady year as expected.
So I would at this point expect a better year in 2016 than 2015 in reported results.
And at this time ladies and gentlemen we will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Tom Gayner for his closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us.
We look forward to chatting with you again as the year goes on.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.