Good day and welcome everyone to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good afternoon and welcome.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal Securities Laws.
The company’s actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K and its other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody.
Thanks for joining us for the first quarter call.
We are going to try to be efficient and I will be as brief as possible.
I’ll turn it over to once I am done to Steve Richardson who will highlight some of the important updates on the type of fiscal market and then being to finalize kind of comments from our standpoint before we open it up for Q&amp;A.
On the status of the business today I think we are making good progress in virtually all of our key Life Science adjacency markets despite a sluggish recovery the quarter I think of a pretty decent solid quarter again given the macro environment which still is challenged.
We clearly have the best-in-class in most well located lab space and then I think it gives comfort for each quarter in and out of leasing re-leasing et cetera.
When you look at NIH government funding which has been driving a lot of attention lately certainly of the government funding level.
2010 was $31.2 billion and 2011 is $30.9 billion also there is a small federal budget cut but we feel that the feds are very and certainly Congress appears to be very supportive keeping the levels above $30 billion which should provide us I think adequate fund certainly on the go forward basis over the next year or two.
In 2010 our clients garnered 12.7% of the annual NIH budget up several percentage points from the year before and the biopharma budgets for 2011 should stay north in the aggregate of $60 billion which is good news.
On the leasing front we had a solid 550 000 plus square feet leased through the first quarter and I think we are on our run rate for the second quarter to be equally as solid.
We have 28 leases as you know from newer renewal space we had a modest up tick with a bit of shorter term leases but don’t take that as any particular trend.
Massachusetts strength was offset a bit by some of the challenges in Sorrento Mesa in San Diego and a little bit in our North Carolina market.
16 leases were redevelopment development space and again Boston and San Francisco are two leading markets were very solid in that regard Steve will cover this more in depth in a few minutes.
And our 2011 lease rolls about 1.6 million square feet coming up should be very manageable.
We only have San Francisco and Boston Cambridge with over 100 000 square feet to re-lease that we see that is very achievable.
And we’re still looking at GAAP rental rates on a yearly basis up somewhere between zero to 5%.
On redevelopment space on the 784 000 odd square feet in redevelopment we’re making I think good progress on one of our Torrey Pines properties we’ll be able to report to you over the coming quarters.
I think also in the University Town Center our campus point asset very good progress on that and will be reporting to you there.
I think in the Boston Cambridge area each of the assets we have for redevelopment there again good progress.
And also the Rockville redevelopment will be able to report good progress.
So overall I think you’ll see the leased and negotiating committing numbers continue to rise over the coming quarters.
Moving on to acquisitions and again Steve will detail more about the Mission Bay acquisition.
But as we stated the pacific group conference in Florida in mid-March will continue to be opportunistic in our search to find AAA locations and AAA facilities where we can add and create value coupled with our conservative and rigorous underwriting standards.
I think if you look at the Mission Bay acquisition our view that this was a move to secure AAA location and AAA set of buildings on their own merit.
They’re really the best waterside site in Mission Bay immediately adjacent to the UCSF R&amp;D campus from right across the street from the $1 billion three hospital complex now under construction.
We at one point a number of years ago looked at potentially acquiring this but with so much land through the Catellus acquisitions we decided not to go forward but we’re pleased to have this opportunity.
It’s pretty clear we’ve got the best knowledge about that submarket of any commercial real estate entity and I think clearly the most capable and conservative underwriting.
It was a solid buy although not a steel in fact very few steels in AAA real estate today.
But we do see a unique ability to solidly increase cash flows and I think appreciation will come overtime especially given the ability to tenant one of the buildings and its clear on Mission Bay we have a real pricing power and it is as Steve will tell you almost fully occupied submarket.
If you when we think about the acquisition versus development issue today it’s not just a simple matter of comparing yields or IRRs but we have significant and unique ability I think among virtually few companies have this kind of a luxury in three strong markets to develop on either a build-to-suite or a significantly pre-lease scenario.
Mission Bay we have got about 300 000 square feet left to build and pretty good activity there in the early stages.
New York City we have got 800 000 square feet and we’ll kickoff our pre-marketing of the West Tower on June 6th.
So as we began to really pull in what we know will be existing pent-up demand we will keep you posted on kind of our plans for the West Tower about a 400 000 square foot tower.
And in Cambridge 1.7 million square feet to develop we clearly have the ability there to build that out.
And I think it’s fair to say today we have we’ll likely formally announce our first build-to-suite for about 300 000 square feet in the second quarter when we expect to have a signed lease at the at the Alexandria Center for Life Science Kendall Square and again we will keep you posted on New York City our Alexandria Center for Life Science there after the June 6 kick off and our lab rates in New York we think are comfortably approaching the $80 triple net range.
We can also be adapt enough to acquire if it make sense and clearly we are at the Mission Bay property we believe that with solid conservative underwriting we can do that increasing cash flows where we see strong positive rent growth trends where we adapt pricing power it makes good sense.
So let me turn it over to Steve Richardson who runs our San Francisco Bay office and region to get in to more depth on that acquisition.
Hi this is Steve Richardson Executive Vice President Regional Market Director for the San Francisco region.
The recent recoveries really continued and has intensified with significant absorption of space from technology companies such as Motorola Dell Computer Zynga Hewlett-Packard Google Facebook and Salesforce.com and imminent demand from another cohort of technology companies.
The Life Science sector has also remained steady and healthy with incremental demand keeping vacancy rates in the West Bay which stresses from San Francisco to Palo Alto in the 9% to 10% range.
The Life Science vacancy rate would actually have been driven lower or not for reason of 11th Hour termination and negotiations for a large block of sublease space in the South San Francisco market.
The healthiest of the Life Science submarkets continues to be Mission Bay featuring a current vacancy rate of just 1% or so.
Alexandria’s vision of Mission Bay as a world class cluster attracting strong credit tenants with international significance continues with enthusiasm.
And Joel mentioned we are pleased to formally announce the purchase of 409 and 499 Illinois Street the world-class newly developed 453 000 square foot laboratory facility constructed on a spectacular 3.8 acre waterfront site in Mission Bay for approximately $293 million.
The two-building project is designed in a six story configuration situated over a secured two-level parking structure.
The 409 Illinois facility containing 241 000 square feet is 97% leased on a long-term basis to one of the Bay area’s most promising life science companies FibroGen which is focused on several large product opportunities.
It is a well-capitalized company with a diversified product pipeline and blue-chip pharmaceutical partnership.
The 499 Illinois facility contains 211 000 square feet.
It is currently vacant and requires further development to bring it to market and stabilization.
We expect to engage a broad range of life science medical office clinical practice and research and technology companies now currently in the market and based upon our view of market conditions and certain assumptions we expect to achieve a GAAP stabilized yield for the overall project in the range of 7.2% to 7.6% and initial cash yields in the range of 6.5% to 7%.
These yields are based upon the current rental rates we have achieved in Mission Bay and do not account for potentially higher lease rates that may arise for a cluster of factors.
One site is clearly a unique waterfront offering in a market that is now at a 1% vacancy rate for life science product where Alexandria has real pricing power.
It is adjacent to both UCSF’s research and hospital multibillion dollar campuses and we expect these demand drivers to enhance our rental rates and yields for the facility in the near and the long-term but we’ve taken a conservative view on our underwriting and future leasing.
The price per square foot is also competitive with recent transactions featuring existing and old lab facilities and exactly land in the South San Francisco market.
But this world-class properties located in the much healthier and diversified submarket Mission Bay.
It is also important to know that this facility includes 590 parking spaces and they provide an apples-to-apples comparison with Alexandria’s Mission Bay facilities and in South San Francisco lab market approximately $65 should be deducted from the price per square foot metric driving a price per square foot of $581 for the facility.
This is infrastructure that provides a return on investment with real urban CBD parking rates unlike South San Francisco’s market that does not provide for paid parking for expensive parking structures.
This is clearly the right asset at the right time for long-term appreciation and high quality increase in cash flows.
We have solidified our dominant market position in Mission Bay.
The salesforce.com land sale was an important event since they both enhanced Mission Bay’s international reputation as a diversified world-class intellectual and innovation center featuring both life science and technology enterprises as well as advancing Alexandria’s pursuit of an investment grade rating by monetizing a significant non-income producing asset.
The Illinois acquisition service a similar dual purpose in that it boosts the company’s near monopoly Mission Bay footprint to more than 975 000 square feet of existing space plus the ability to provide another 290 000 square feet or so for build-to-suit users while at the same time bringing beneficial cash flow to the company and enhancing the metrics for investment-grade ratings.
We continue to make steady progress on East Jamie Court facility in South San Francisco with two of the six floors fully leased.
We are taking a measured approach to the South San Francisco submarket with a key focus on tenant retention such as our recent renewal of Theravance at our 901 and 951 Gateway project for a 10-year lease; securing high quality growth companies such as Onyx in our 249 East Grant Campus and solid incremental progress on East Jamie Court with a number of promising company including Stem CentRx but we’ve chosen not to invest significant capital and additional ground development projects without significant pre-leasing.
On a final note we’re also advancing our 2011 roll-over efforts and are either in negotiations or serious discussions with approximately 70% of our remaining 120 000 square foot roll-over for this year.
A majority of these tenants in these suits anticipate extending their lease in one of the spaces as in the process of staying back over the new tenant.
With that I’ll go ahead and hand it over to Dean.
Thanks Steve.
Welcome everybody.
As we reported our earnings for the quarter FFO per share diluted was $1.15 excluding the 2.5 million loss on early extinguishment of debt and earnings per share was reported at $0.44.
Moving to the balance sheet real quickly and as a quick reminder an overview of our recent amendment to our facility we extended the maturity ultimately the January of 2015 the line of credit increased by 350 million to 1.5 billion bringing the total facility to 2.25 billion.
Pricing on the line of credit was 2.4 or one month LIBOR and the $750 million term loan maturity remains unchanged at October of 2012 and the pricing on that $750 million term loan remains at 1% over one month LIBOR.
In addition in the quarter we closed the new $250 million unsecured term loan with pricing at 2% over one month LIBOR.
The covenants are identical to our unsecured line of credit and the initial maturity is 2014 with an option to extend the maturity to 2015.
As you probably are aware of the bank lending environment continues to strength for solid sponsors like Alexandria.
Lender interest remains very strong and pricing continues to improve.
Our guidance which I’ll get to in a moment assumes a small portion of our $750 million term loan is refinanced this year with the remainder being refinanced no later than 2012.
During the quarter we’ve retired 96 million of our 37 convertible notes which leads us about $206 million outstanding as of March 31.
Briefly let me summarize our balance sheet capital structure and liquidity objectives over the next several years.
Our objective include reducing leverage as a percentage of total growth assets and improve the ratio of debt to EBITDA.
Maintained diverse sources of capital reduced outstanding convertible debt.
Manage the amount of debt maturing in any single year.
Refinancing outstanding variable rate debt the fixed rate debt maintain adequate liquidity from net cash providing by operating activities cash and cash equivalents and availability under our line of credit.
Maintain available borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit in excess of 50% of our total commitments of 1.5 billion except temporarily as necessary to finance that the acquisitions.
Fund dividend from operating cash flows and most importantly retain net positive cash flows after payments of dividends for reinvestment into acquisition and/or redevelopment and development projects.
Moving briefly to credit metrics our net debt to EBITDA is seven times as of March 31st and it continues to have an outlook of improvement through the year.
Our financial covenants under our credit facility are as follows; leverage was 37%; the covenant is 60%.
The unsecured leverage is 40% the covenant again is 60%.
The fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.2 times on a trailing 12 the covenant is 1.5 times.
And our current quarter annualized fixed charge coverage ratio is 2.5 times showing a significant improvement.
Our unsecured debt yield was 13.5% and the covenant is 11%.
Briefly let me turn to sources of cash for the remainder of 2011 as I mentioned in our prior call our net cash flows are anticipated to be approaching about $100 million for the year which leaves us about 75 million for the remainder of 2011.
We have cash on hand of approximately $110 million we’re anticipating asset sales and land sales in $75 million to $150 million range.
We also anticipate an unsecured bank loan in the $400 million and other capital or about $300 million consisting of unsecured debt secured debt perpetual preferred or common stock.
That brings our total sources to about $1 billion and keep in mind we have approximately 841 million available under our line of credit as of March 31st.
Turning to uses of capital for the remainder of the year acquisitions in total are projected to be about 395 million.
This includes $293 million for the transaction we completed in Mission Bay and therefore we have about $100 million of incremental acquisitions forecasted.
Our construction spending breaks down to total of $277 million as follows redevelopment which is stated to be about $116 million development about $77 million projects in Indian and China about $43 million pre-construction activities about $22 million and CapEx and another TI projects of about $19 million.
Common dividends for the remainder of the year assuming no changes in the existing share count of about $75 million for the next three quarters repayment of debt in the range of about $98 million.
Repayment of the $750 million term loan as I mentioned earlier in the $100 million range retirement of the remainder of our 3/7 notes at about $206 million bringing total usage just slightly above $1.1 billion.
Lastly let me comment on guidance for 2011 as we reported FFO per share diluted of range of $4.52 to $4.57 an EPS of $2.03 to $2.08.
Our guidance is based on various underlying assumptions and reflects our outlook for 2011.
Some of these assumptions include the following $0.05 loss on early extinguishment of debt this includes $0.03 since our guidance in early February.
The increase in acquisition expenses partly in Q2 from the transaction in Mission Bay and the remainder being spread over the second half of the year.
Increase in interest expense related to the acceleration of refinancing originally anticipated in later quarters including refinancing of a small portion of our $750 million term loan in 2011 versus 2012 then of course the acceleration of other financing from ‘12 into ‘11.
Cash same property NOI growth in the range of 2% to 4% GAAP rental rate steps on lease renewals and releasing of space in the up to 5% range with some variances quarter-to-quarter.
Straight-line rents are expected to be in the low $30 million range with amounts back end weighted in the year.
FAS 141 revenue will drop below $1 million come the third quarter.
G&amp;A expenses are expected to be up modestly over 2010.
And lastly our guidance also includes the items that were previously highlighted in sources and the uses of capital.
With that let me turn it over to Joel.
Thanks everybody.
Let’s operator if you could open it up for Q&amp;A please.
Thank you Mr.
Marcus.
The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Mr.
Anthony Paolone with JP Morgan.
Thank you and good afternoon.
My first question is on the Illinois acquisitions how much more do you have to spend between just finishing of the second empty building and just any CapEx or tenant improvements that you need to do to get it build up? Yeah.
Hi Tony it’s Steve Richardson.
We expect between the infrastructure and the improvements there for that building alone somewhere in the range of I would say $100 $125 plus a square foot.
Okay.
And then how do you look at hurdle rates on starting new acquisitions or starting new developments and re-developments and also looking at acquisitions because it seems like you’re willing to take down your returns a little bit to do this and understand the strategic nature of it but just how do you think about that across other parts of the portfolio now since your portfolio has increasingly in these very strong locations? Well I think it’s pretty rare to have Tony acquisition opportunities in what I would consider to be the three critical markets or submarkets Mission Bay Cambridge and New York City obviously other markets you’ve seen some of the activity in San Diego etcetera.
So I think in Mission Bay this was the only non-Alexandria held commercial real estate there and we have really coveted that side for a long period of time and I think only by really moving out of some of the landholdings which were really dragging in a sense the both from a balance sheet and a cash flow standpoint once we are able to successfully exit I think our view of an opportunity to buy AAA location AAA buildings at not a bargain basement price but at a pretty full price gave us an opportunity though where we see pretty good pricing power and we underwrote it in a pretty conservative fashion that it was something we wanted to do it’s immediately cash flowing.
I think there is a great opportunity to increase well beyond our pro forma based on future rental rate increases and so I think there the choice between doing that versus kicking off another building where we did not have a current build-to-suit candidate that was ready to go I think made good firm I can – Cambridge again very few properties are trading and while there is no opportunistic acquisition opportunity that we can see in the – certainly in the immediate timeframe and so by securing a build-to-suit there we would obviously look at that and again all – it isn’t simply as I said purely IRR or yield driven.
I think it really is a focus on location quality of building and is there a chance to add value to increase cash flows and can we – could we exit that asset at a price that would be much better than we bought in and I think the answer on all those piece is yes.
Yeah Tony it’s Peter Moglia.
Joel to hit the nail on the head there I mean we looked at what the stabilized yield would be once we leased up the second building and we believe it’s going to be at least 100 basis points over what the going in cap rate would be as we had bought it stabilize.
So we felt really comfortable with the pricing given that spread.
And then obviously we always look at the unlevered IRR and ensure that it’s going to cover our projected long term cost of capital and in this case it surely did.
So to address your hurdle rate question that would be my answer.
All right.
Then just the one follow-up to that is I mean it sounds like then quality asset like that on just a stabilized basis would probably have yield somewhere in the – it sounds like maybe in the fives perhaps? I would say that it’s possible stabilize today that that could trade below six but I would look at it as a six six even.
Did that kind of pricing I mean what is it do to your thinking in terms of joint ventures or you’ve gone down that path a little bit in the past and I guess may be update us on that.
But...
Well we saw one asset last June that I think I have alluded to in meetings or in conference calls where there was a B location triple-A credit in a suburban Boston that went for a 64 cap rate to an institutional buyer.
In Mission Bay it isn’t a lot better than that waterside view next to the – again the campuses we described it would be hard to imagine that it wouldn’t attract pretty aggressive cap rate buyers.
On a joint venture basis I think we have to kind of see how – our view is the probably the most probable joint venture opportunity for us is really on the Binney Street the Alexandria Center for Life Science Kendall Square because the magnitude of build-out there is large.
We do have one deal that we signed a letter of intent and then we are looking to finalize a lease over the coming 30 days or so and we’ll share more with you next time.
But I think that’s probably an opportunity that we would think joint venture wouldn’t work for us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yep.
Thanks Tony.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Yeah good afternoon.
Hey Mike.
Hi.
Just staying on Illinois acquisition when you bought Biogen Idec and at the Investor Day your first two bullet points was best asset in the four major submarkets than a high discount to replacement costs and really value-add going and then using the skill-set.
I recognized your view of triple-A asset triple-A location but it would appear as though just based on the costs that you’ve put into your other Mission Bay buildings and what you just sold the land for salesforce.com.
That this would be pretty much I would say and more circular around replacement costs maybe it take above maybe it take below but probably not far off and so I’m just wondering how you can comparing contrast that? Yeah Michael.
Hi it’s Steve I think there is a couple of component of this.
One is again when you look at the price per square foot and it is important to look at the parking structure as an integrated part of the building.
And when you break that our as a revenue generating entity of two itself you do end up with a replacement costs figure that I think you probably right is somewhere in that range of plus or minus of where we’ve been in that includes tenant invested capital as well.
As far as the value adding potential here I mean we have a 1% vacancy rate in Mission Bay.
The building will appeal to not only kind of our core target of life science drug discovery lab companies.
You’ve got important clinical people that we’ve actually toward through the facility as recently as last week.
Medical office building users technology users so you have a diversity of demand there that we think will allow us to add value and bring just a great new cohort of tenants in there.
We were conservative in the underwriting the lease rates we’ve targeted we are ones that we have achieved with a number of the tenants looking back over a number of years.
So I’m hopeful but we did not underwrite at this way that we do in fact have rental rates and yields better enhanced above and beyond what we’ve already accomplished.
And hey Michael its Peter Moglia I think you’re referring the comments I made at Investor Day.
I’d say in this case we are going to be using our skill set and our connections.
We do have leasing to do to accomplish our goals and we are going to be making a spread over what we would buy a stabilized asset for us so I think in that way in the profile does fit.
But I’d also like to mention that this is a bit different than the biogeneric deal because this is a very scarce asset.
If you look at a map of Mission Bay today and plot it where sales force is going in the hospital and all the other uses there is very little land left and nothing in this particular area for a number of years so.
You have to really consider that when you’re looking at the overall pricing and the overall strategy of this.
It’s going to be very little available on Mission Bay for a number of years and except for what we have and what we can build.
How much of parking income is coming off the asset today? There is a total of 590 spaces I think roughly half of those are leased.
I don’t have that figure off the top of my head but we can get back to you with that.
Your allocating based on your $65 about $30 million to the parking? Yes.
Yeah I mean we have built parking structures in Mission Bay to the support of our existing facilities.
So we have a good sense of both the parking space rental revenue the parking space cost and those in and out themselves are standalone financial entities.
So I just thought it was important to highlight that dimension of this building because the parking is an integrated part of the building in a way that is not true for our other Mission Bay facilities.
And certainly isn’t true for South San Francisco where if you do drive down today you’ve got to build parking structures and you derive negligible or literally no revenue for that investment.
And is this the revenue source if you’re looking to increase or you think in place to justify the 7% return? It’s looking at it in the latter percent that it justifies that return.
Being adjacent to a hospital over time well we have an opportunity with daily parking to help enhance that all I think is a reasonable expectation.
Again we didn’t factor that into our underwriting.
Yeah I’ll keep in mind Michael too I think as Peter said we’ve underwritten this on in a sense yesterday’s rental rates lease is already signed not looking at anything in the future.
So I think we feel good about the conservatism we built into the numbers.
And just thinking about it from the sellers perspective I sure understand is not a – is not a stupid real estate guy and it’s pretty sure person.
Yep.
Clearly if there is more value to be had by leasing up the space and then selling off any constrain to anybody you’d think that that would be strategy they would pursue.
So I’m just trying to reconcile comment a little bit? Yeah well I think a couple of things and Steve can give you a little more color they were trying to I think monetize assets in this particular fund for their own reasons.
There were a number of bidders at the table I think at least one of two of them probably would have beaten up in pricing.
But I think the certainty of our diligence knowledge and market knowledge there I think convinced them that we were the best buyer here.
And I think that you have to remember that this is the market they don’t really deal with or they have very few life science assets.
So it’s not really in their sweet spot but Steve you could comment beyond that.
Yeah no I think that’s right.
I think you’re right.
They are a very well respected organization.
I think they have a keen sense of timing.
I think we’ve stated that this was not a bargain basement price.
It was a reasonably full price for where the property is and its stage of development in leasing and I think they’ve just chose to act upon that timing for both macro market reasons but also their fund I think they are out there raising another fund right now and it probably helps them to have a sale completed in a prior front end point to that to investors.
Okay thank you for comment.
Yeah thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hi everyone.
Good afternoon.
Hi Ross.
A couple of questions may be we will move past the Mission Bay.
If I am reading your supplemental correctly it looks like you spend or planned on spending 43 million in China and India this year which is not insignificant amount of money can you talk about where you are now on those expansion plans? Sure those dollars actually go across a number of projects and so individually there is no one project consuming all that capital and if you look at India and China we’ve got a million square feet so it’s a modest investment in that particular market at the moment and as we advance our efforts in that particular region we’ll continue to provide more color.
Yeah there is in India we at the moment don’t want to certainly get in to great detail but we are doing a build-a-suit that has been increased in size by one of our top tenants coming from the U.S.
among others and that’s one of the keen focal points of this and we will probably over the coming quarters.
At the moment that they do not want us to say anything about this particular expansion but we will hopefully be able to share that with you in coming quarters.
Okay.
On the leasing in the first quarter on the – I guess the 28 leases second three lease term shorter than I would have expected.
Can you add some color perhaps on why this lease terms were no longer there? Yes as I said don’t read even growth in rental rate mark-to-markets don’t necessarily as the inset look at a single quarter as necessarily a trend for the future I think they are very individualistic and I would say I would take nothing in particular away from or through this anything to them in particular.
Yes one quarterish statistics kind of skewed and I would always look back on the prior rolling quarterish at least when you get to the first quarter.
It’s really tough.
But it’s the only period presented.
But if you look back you can see the recent trends back in 2010 the average lease term on renewed and re-leased space was 8.1 years and the average lease term on redevelopment for vacant space was closer to 10 years.
So that was the recent trend not in really one quarter end this three year term will easily average outage we get through the quarters.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Last question Joe at your Investor Day I guess last December I thought you were pretty emphatic that one of your key priorities for this year moving forward toward investment grade rating? Yes.
And walking a fine line between advancing that goal and not doing any more speculative development.
So I guess how do you put the Mission Bay acquisition in that context where it’s not you are not taking the development risk but you are taking the leasing risk and how do you think about that relative to the timing of getting a rating of where are you in that process? Yeah.
I mean I think that’s a great question and it does present a fine line of balancing a number of competing issues.
I think we felt good though that we were able I mean had we not had two year severe downturn I think our view of selling that kind of land at Mission Bay may have been different.
The world would be different I think.
But it is it’s like Vegas you play the hand you’re dealt and so we played the hand we’re dealt and exited quite a number of the parcels had a pretty good gain certainly a pretty good price per FAR foot and moved from a non-income producing asset.
And the deal we just bought again we don’t choose the timing of when buyers come to or sellers come to market.
They come to market for a variety of reasons as Steve said raising another fund or whatever.
But I think it’s fair to say that certainly from a ratings perspective and that was not the main motivation for the sub purchase it was the items that we all kind of just enunciated.
It’s certainly would be viewed in a I think a very positive light because its great real estate it’s immediately cash flowing it’s a pretty decent return with some good upside and even though we have got some leasing risk we have got a 1% vacant market with about four different sectors that would be looking at that building with I think a lot of interest.
So we feel pretty comfortable in taking that risk.
We said both at the Investor Day and otherwise we’re not interested and would not do speculative developments.
So any or other mission based type that would be developed on the west side would be only on a substantially leased pre-leased or build-to-suit basis.
New York we’re going to tap that market starting in June and in Cambridge we do have our first building that assuming we execute the lease would be a build-to-suit.
So again we want to try to balance all these things and carefully balance the volume at which we’re doing things.
We do things I think in a step-wise fashion prudently and be as careful as we can about everything.
It’s all obviously a whole set of balancing efforts.
And where are you exactly with the agency that you’re pointing? We’re not formally before them but we believe that I think as Dean has mentioned the number of times we would hope to be formally in that process in the latter half of 2011.
Thank you.
Yeah thanks Ross.
Our next question comes from the line of Sheila McGrath with KBW.
Yes good afternoon.
Joel you mentioned that Manhattan triple net rents are approaching $80.
I was wondering if you could run through as you sometimes do the lab rental rates for your major markets across the country.
And secondly with the rents penciling out near $80 what that might mean for your potential return for the second building in New York versus the first? Let me just talk about maybe the three major markets San Francisco Pete can give you a little bit of what the current rental rates are in the two markets we’re dealing with.
Good Sheila at Mission Bay has remained steady in the low to mid 40s and from the South San Francisco to the Stanford market we’ve seen some recovery from a pretty distressed point to probably in the mid-30s and see that tightening up incrementally.
And I think in New York as we said we feel there is certainly our lease rates are approaching as we indicated $80.
We know that there is an incubator up at Columbia that’s got rates pretty similar to that.
There is no other product in New York City we see the office market coming back pretty nicely and noticed that there are a number of developers even looking at developing office space.
So that all bodes well for I think future increases and in Cambridge I think Peter can comment but I think we’re answered pretty much in the mid-50s to high 50s triple net.
That’s right but we actually started what may have been a $70 comp today on a recently signed lease in the news.
I would tell you the San Diego has really been pushing rents 250 was really the asking rent for most of the Class A space for the past 12 months but we really involve to do the $3 range over the last couple of months.
So and we think we are going to continue to push that North Carolina is still fairly dormant.
So the rental rates have really settled in the low 20s range.
Maryland is probably in the mid-20s to low 30s for newer product.
Am I missing anything else that’s about it.
Okay.
And then second part of the question was on the with rents now approaching $80 in New York how does that look – pencil out for your return on the second building versus the first? Yeah I think it really is – pencils up pretty nicely because if you look at the second building we would see somewhere again you never know what the infrastructure improvement will be for a given tenant whether it will be more of a shell deal or more of a split of the build out or whatever but I think it’s fair to say that we would probably have overall cost probably in the somewhere in the $650 range because we don’t have to put in the amenities we put into the East Tower and I think we would have more intense lab than we have in the East Tower and I think clearly we would be in an even a slightly better position with respect to returns than the East Tower assuming rents that we’ve signed not future rent.
So we feel I think reasonably comfortable with that scenario.
Okay and last question just wondered if you could give us an idea of the level of activity or interest at either New York or Cambridge versus six months ago are you having more dialogues and conversations that would lead you to believe that you might have an earlier start on either a bill to sue that in Cambridge or the second building in New York? Yeah well I think as we were saying just a couple of minutes ago we have signed a letter of intent for approximately 300 000 feet in Cambridge.
We’ll see if we can turn that into a signed lease we have I think a high level of confidence.
But until it’s done it’s not done.
So I think that kind of moves us significant step ahead on the Cambridge development side there is still – it still is together with the Bay area one of the two top markets in the country I think New York is not far behind.
So I think there is good activity in Cambridge from a number of factors both the life science and tax factor.
We’re talking about a life science user here for the building and in New York we’ve not really engaged in many discussions but we know where we left off kind of the end of last year and we kind of have a lift.
There were two significant institutional users that would require something in a range of north of 200 000 square feet.
We’re going to revisit those specifically come the June kind of kick off and assuming those haven’t changed and they couldn’t have gone anywhere else in the city because the reason I think we would expect there would be good activity and then we’d have to look to the future and see what makes sense as far a capital allocation and timeframes for people to make decisions et cetera.
So I’d say yeah better than six months ago for sure.
Okay.
Thank you.
Now our final question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Joel can you give us a sense on 499 Illinois is this sort of a Biogen Idec situation where you’ve got a tenant in your back pocket? John hi it’s Steve Richardson.
I – my colleagues in San Diego did a spectacular job there.
And there is always that hope but this may take a little while.
We do have discussions there early discussions there is tenant demand in the market but we’ll have to stay tuned in the next couple of quarters.
We are not trading paper with anybody right now I can tell you that.
So what are you underwriting in terms of the lease-up period? We’ve got a two year lease-up period.
That’s fairly consistent with our underwriting on the campus down in San Diego that we purchased from Biogen it was the lengthy lease-up period.
Yeah this is Peter.
We did assume a full 13 month before we actually have revenue coming from in to the second building.
Okay.
For one of three tenants? Yeah.
And what is the in-place rent per square foot at 40909? It was roughly high 40s.
Okay.
And Joel you made a comment that was intriguing about several different sectors that would be in line to take this – or you – is your intend to keep 499 as lab or are you looking at alternative uses? Well that’s what we hope to have may be something up our sleeve.
Our main goal is to bring a lab tenant in and we’ve actually looked at it as a single building user or multi-tenant users.
We are looking at it both ways.
But I think it’s pretty clear as Steve had a showing last Friday I believe there is some institutional pent-up demand that may kind of overpower anything else and if we can push prices in a certain direction it might be a combination very much like we did at 1500 on a combination of traditional lab office and even the clinical component and if that gets mandated there could be a nice opportunity to drive rents in a way that may be we wouldn’t have imagined on a either traditional office medical office or traditional lab so that’s kind of our secret hope here.
Okay and then my last question is when you take this acquisition and think about the build-to-suit and Cambridge how are you going to pay for all this particularly when you are considering going to the agencies later on this year? Yeah I mean I think it’s fair to say that other than in the depth of the downturn when we like many companies raised funds in a number of ways.
We certainly did a number of offerings and we did one convert probably would never did that again but that were not match funded that were really funded on the basis of keeping the balance sheet in good shape keeping a lot of liquidity and not knowing whether the banking system was going to be there or not.
Historically other than those pretty tough two years.
We’ve always considered to really match fund those at a point when we felt we wanted that kind of pay down the line.
We’ve got a lot of capacity on the line but obviously our goal over time would be to match fund and our goal has been was before the crash and certainly after the crash to minimize any dilution on that and so that we would continue that same kind of philosophy.
But I would think that to get an investment grade rating you need to bring leverage down a bit? Well I think our numbers are in pretty good shape.
I think we’d like to see our debt-to-EBITDA numbers as Dean said they continue to trail down into the sixes in a very positive fashion.
Part of that will come from bringing on additional EBITDA but yeah I mean our goal is clearly to continue to eliminate secured debt and obviously refinance the 750 term loan and obviously half the bond market.
So those are all kind of a combination of play.
Okay.
Thank you.
But I think overall I think overall our leverage is not in bad shape and I think the – moving out of that Mission Bay Land holding I think helped us significantly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay many thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions.
I’d now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Marcus for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate we’re trying to be time efficient here and we look forward to talking to you on the second quarter call.
Many thanks again.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good afternoon and welcome.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
The company’s actual results may differ materially from these projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K and its other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Rhonda and welcome everybody to the second quarter conference call.
With me are Dean Shigenaga Peter Moglia Krupal Raval and Amanda Cashin.
Maybe starting with the one quote that kind of firms up the current state of affairs in the macro world with Steve Wins recent statement about both the administration and politics the greatest web blanket to business progress and job creation and that is it looks like the environment we’re working in.
From the President’s address to the nation on Monday evening where the debt feeling debate I think there is one hopeful commentary on a micro basis for our sector.
We all want a government that lies within that means but there are still things we need to pay for as a country things like new roads and bridges weather satellite food inspection services to veterans and medical research.
So I think our collective view internally is that the NIH’s $31 billion annual budget run rate will likely be preserved if we get a budget.
Also note that the FDA it’s also positive to note that the FDA drug approval rate for 2011 is on pace to well exceed that of 2010.
20 new drugs approved to date and just one shy of the 21 approved in all of 2010.
I think another very interesting article is the July 2011 Journal of American Medical Association I think it portends well for the biopharma industry.
The study found which really confirms one of our overall key macro pieces that the Medicare Part D drug coverage actually lead to a substantial cut in other healthcare spending by about 10% of our patients.
So that drugs were actually saving money in the other sectors of the healthcare pie which we have stated for a long time as really I think this sectors stick with web and it just needs to be made clear to Congress.
Moving on to the state of the business – our business today probably the most significant item is the successful achievement in our – of our initial investment grade credit rating committees in S&amp;P.
It is a significant and important milestone for the company.
It’s gratifying to know that the agencies highlighted Alexandria’s high-quality tenant based stability of occupancy strength of cash flow quality of location of our assets experience and expertise and management and our leadership in the life science real estate space.
Moving on to leasing we did have among the second highest quarter or about the second highest quarter leasing in the company’s history was about 728 000 square feet.
GAAP rates increased about 3.1% and we believe for the balance of the year we’ll be in the same range.
And we have solid Maryland activity this quarter but have some rental rate pressures there.
We didn’t get strong leasing activity in a positive fashion from Greater Boston.
And also on the occupancy front we had one new route in our Route 128 59 000 square foot building which will pick up our occupancy back in the next quarter as that has been our release.
That was just a timing item with the quarter.
We also had a solid 148 000 square foot development redevelopment leasing quarter this – during the second quarter.
I think we’re making solid progress on the lease up of redevelopment assets.
You can look at page 45 of the supplement and expect more lease up in the third and fourth quarters particularly strong from San Diego and Massachusetts.
We’re also likely to see some more development asset pickup page 46 of the supplement in the third and fourth quarter and certainly we have a very heavy corporate focus on Mission Bay and (audio gap) and the East Jamie Court assets.
East Jamie Court were nearing completion on suites for four new tenants occupying through the six floors as the project activity is really moderate and we’re tracking a number of emerging stage companies with upcoming needs with tours and meetings as we continue to press our case to provide high-quality facilities is the key differentiator from second or generation sub-leases.
And mission bay continues overall it’s star PL as we’ve recently completed a transaction with Pfizer’s CTI entity at 1700 Owens and it’s important to note that the former innovation engines are highly selective in their locations much like their and now Pfizer coming back in Mission Bay with their CTI group which we also have as a key tenant in our New York property.
499 (inaudible) has initiated its formal marketing campaign renegotiated and we are receiving positive reception in the market as we’ve expected from a variety of user groups including life science clinical medical and technology towards the began and we expect to be very selective in working with these types of entities over the coming quarters.
We also see an opportunity to push rental rates greater than our performance.
For 3Q and 4Q we see solid leasing prospects in virtually all of our markets.
Remaining 2011 rolls we’ve got 984 000 square feet rolling over the next two quarters about 22% are leased or certainly likely to be completed.
About 42% are in redevelopment primarily two big buildings as you know almost 200 000 feet or 400 Tech Square conversion.
We are expecting Forrester Research Tech building over the coming quarter.
Our initial preleasing discussions are going very well.
And we are looking at I think a good lease up and a strong ROI much like our 200 Tech Square conversion project.
And then second big redevelopment is the Gates Foundation building coming back to us again in the next quarter here.
We were already 55 preleased before they’d removed out with very good upside 116 000 square feet.
The balance of 2011 rolls 36% is marketing up 346 000 square feet.
We also signed our last lease for the remaining lab space with the Alexandria Center for Life Science New York of about 5 000 feet and all we have left are a few office space on one of the floors.
And we just actually opened a state-of- the-art urban farm there which is getting a lot of attention in New York City.
On our 2012 lease rolls 1.4 million square feet about 25% are leased or likely to be leased two small buildings about 5% are going into redevelopment for conversion and the balance about 69% 70% are being marketed with a balanced exposure in San Diego San Francisco Greater Boston Suburban D.
C.
and Seattle.
Occupancies over the third and fourth quarter we’re expecting I think pickups in San Diego and Greater Boston.
And on new development as you know from our press release we did sign a 307 000 square foot 15-year lease at our 225 Binney Street project part of the Alexandria Center for Life Science Kendall Square with Biogen Idec a truly outstanding company.
The building will be office but will be able to handle lab.
We have solid ramps and George Scangos who we’d known for many years the CEO commented on his move back from Western to Cambridge and said essentially that they need to be where the heart – innovation and researches.
I mean he didn’t want a split function of office in the suburbs and research in the city.
So I think that’s a good win up for Cambridge post vurtex.
On the international front we think that medium to long-term international exposure are carefully and thoughtfully executed as a positive as there is a different growth trajectory overseas which will benefit Alexandria over many years to come.
Moving first to the Mars announcement they announced the kick-off of the second phase of 764 000 square feet substantially at least a 100% financing on outstanding terms from the provincial government.
Our structure and investment return will be similar to a subground leaser and it’s in one of the absolute best location in Toronto’s medical discovery metric.
Moving on to India there have been press reports about Alexandria investments in India some of which are unfortunately unsubstantiated others are directionally through but perhaps wrong in the detail.
Consistent with our communication with our investors and analysts we’ve thought to allocate capital and invest our resources in key markets and stock markets very prudently.
Recent press reports have identified out the entry of the developer the Bangalore Helix project this is certainly accurate but the project we’ve been focused on for several years and in fact those following the company back in 2007 will recall this is the project that we shortlisted back then but was rebred over the last couple of years due to some just internal governmental issues.
What is not accurate in the press reports are many of the details.
Since we are the master developer in the Bangalore Helix project the full scope of the project is actually larger than what our capital investment will be.
In total over the next five years plus we’ll build out approximately 600 000 square feet of technical space with the total investment over that timeframe of about a $100 million.
So far investment has been less than about $15 million given site work and the normal billing cycle we expect that our first facility would be ready in early 2014.
Finally a quick note on our underwriting standards with regard to international investments.
We take pride in our conservatives and then underwriting for any investments which we discussed at some detail in our last investor day in order which to earn a risk adjusted return for our investors we focused on earning premiums of several basis points after tax about what we can earn domestically.
It’s undoubtedly premature to discuss the specific economic details but we want to try to address questions from a macroeconomic level as we move forward we’ll help investors more fully digest the opportunity but slated to say for now we view the opportunities compelling and seek to manage risk and be compensated for the risk we ultimately do take.
And then finally a couple of points we’re working intensively to sell a number of non-core land parcels in various sub markets.
We’re also working intensively on asset recycling particularly focused on sales of certain legacy and lesser quality buildings in sub markets we would like to exit.
We’ll likely see some additional acquisitions in 2011 focused on key tenant in key sub markets.
And significant build-to-suit opportunities remain Mission Bay and New York City and Cambridge and we’ll keep you updated on the progress.
So let me turn it over to Dean.
Thanks Joe.
Good afternoon everyone.
Jumping right in here we reported FFO for share diluted of $1.15 this exclude to the $1.2 million ride off unamortized loan fees related to the early repayment of our term loan.
We reported earnings per share diluted of $0.44.
Turning to the balance sheet let me provide a brief overview of our recent amendment to our term loan.
This transaction represents a key milestone with pushing out our last significant 2012 debt maturity.
We’ve raised about $500 million of incremental bank debt capital extended our mutually ultimately to 2016.
And pricing on the term loan is at 1.75% over one month LIBOR.
This leaves us with about $250 million outstanding on our 2012 term loan.
As you look at our debt maturity schedule on page 29 you’ll see the highlight there the debt maturities again have been pushed out to 2015 and thereafter.
Subsequent to quarter end we’ve repurchase $82 million of our 3.7% convertible notes.
Leaving us with approximately $125 million outstanding today.
Next turning to balance sheet capital structure and equity objectives over coming quarters and over the next several year we’re clearly committed to maintaining a broad and diverse set of sources of capital.
As you are well aware in July Moody’s Investors Service have signed to be AA2 stable issuer rating to Alexandria and Standard &amp; Poor’s have signed BBB- corporate credit rating to company.
As the result we expected tap the unsecured bond market in 2011 obviously subjected to market conditions.
We’re committed to maintaining low leverage and solid credit metrics.
We fully expect to reduce and eliminate convertible debt from the capital structure.
We’re looking forward to further ladder of debt maturities transactioning variable rate bank debt to the fixed rate unsecured bonds.
We fully expected to maintain adequate liquidity from net cash provided by our operating activities cash and cash equivalence and substantially greater than 50% of availability under our line of credit.
We expect the fund and grow dividends from increasing operating cash flows and to retain that positive cash flows after payment of dividends for investments in into acquisitions and or redevelopment and development projects.
Looking out over the next six quarters through the end of 2012 we anticipate future capital needs to be sourced with approximately 50% equity with equity including proceeds from selective recycling of capital from asset sales from time to time.
Moving next to credit metrics our net debt-to-EBITDA was about 6.5 times for the second quarter annualized and we expect this ratio to improve over time with some variance temporarily quarter-to-quarter.
Financial covenants under our credit facility are as follows.
Leverage was 34% the covenants 60% unsecured leverages 35% the convents 60%.
Fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.4 times current quarter annualized was 2.5 times and the covenant is 1.5 times.
Our unsecured debt yield is in the 15% to 16% range and the covenant is 12%.
Turning to uses and sources of capital for the remainder of 2011 uses aggregate about $768 million consisting of approximately $50 million on acquisitions about $244 million in construction spending consisting of the following.
$119 million for redevelopment $55 million for development about $34 million for India and China and pre-constructions consuming about $12 million and about $24 million of other projects.
We anticipate common dividends of at least $56 million repayment of secured debt of about $93 million repayment of our 2012 term loan of $250 million and the retirement of about $75 million of our 3.7% notes.
Sources for our cash for the remainder of 2011 will include our line availability of about $925 million net cash flows for each quarter annualized over the next year of about $100 million.
Cash on hand of about $61 million assets on land sales projected to be about $75 million.
And as highlighted earlier we plan to complete an unsecured debt financing as well.
Turning briefly the same property performance we reported year-to-date same property NOI growth 0.5% and 6.5% on a GAAP and cash basis respectively.
These results exclude termination fees and reflect contractual increases in cash rents and increases reflective of leases executed in late 2008 and 2009 with some amount of free rent.
Additionally operating expenses in the same property pool was up about 8%.
As a reminder 95% of our leases are triple net and accordingly fluctuations and operating expenses are cast through and recovered from our tenants.
Briefly on G&amp;A.
G&amp;A was up about $1.2 million from last quarter reflecting the acquisition cost related to the purchase of a property in Mission Bay and a measured increase in payroll another cost related to the growth in the depth and breadth of our business.
Lastly turning to guidance for 2011 we updated our guidance primarily for capital related matters.
FFO per share diluted was provided in a range of $4.37 to $4.42 and EPS diluted of a range of $1.82 to $1.87.
Our guidance is based on various underlining assumptions and reflects our outlook for 2011 some of the assumptions include the following.
A loss on the early extinguishment of debt including $0.06 since our guidance in the first quarter earnings call again $0.02 of an impact related to the amount and timing of the additional term loan that we closed on June 30th.
And again just to clarify this relates to term loan we closed in the second quarter the $0.05 impact related to the timing of future unsecured bond offering moving from 2012 in to 2011.
From a modeling perspective we are not prepared to discuss the details of the bond financing assumptions since these items will be determined based on market considerations of the time of any future offering.
We believe our guidance has captured reasonable assumptions for this future event and we will target 10-year paper in an amount that should provide appropriate liquidity for fixed income investors.
We lowered our acquisition assumptions and that impacted our numbers by about $0.01.
And we had a $0.01 impact from the timing of repurchases 3.7% convertible notes.
Straight-line rents are expected to be in the $27 million to $28 billion range for the year.
Really reflecting the impact of the recent release we executed with Illumina in San Diego driving an increasing straight-line rent in the second half of the year.
Additionally straight-line rents drop down to a quarterly average of about $5 million in 2012.
Phase 141 mark-to-market lease revenue will be dropped in below of $1 million beginning in the third quarter and continuing at that rate for a number of quarters thereafter.
With that I will turn it back to Joel.
So operator we are ready for Q&amp;A please.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Anthony Paolone with JP Morgan.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
You mentioned some build-to-suit activity that you’re still having discussions on – and then Cambridge and also in New York.
I was wondering if you can give us an update on progress in New York in the potential West Tower there.
We don’t have any specific news to report Tony.
But I would say that given our fairly intensive marketing program that we put together and we’ve been organizing over the past month or two coupled with the legacy demand that we had on the East Tower of about 200 000 feet.
I think we look pretty positively at the prospects in New York.
We delivered first phase impact I think back in August to Lilly.
And as I’ve said we just signed our last lease for – last small piece of lab space just this past quarter that we’re now full other than I think we’ve got through the four office little spaces for lease up on the 15 floor.
So I don’t have anything specifically to report today.
But I think we’re optimistic that New York City is a good strong market with increasing rents and there – certainly there is a strong demand from a variety of sectors where there are no choices people – a number of groups of entities – suburbs and not an alternative.
So no interest in going to New Jersey or Connecticut or Long Island or wherever.
And so Manhattan remains the destination of choice.
On the Cambridge front I think we’ve just digested our negotiation and kick up of the project with Biogen Idec.
So we’ll keep you posted but we do have at least two very interested parties in one or more of the other we have four other buildings and we’ll keep the market posted over the coming quarters.
But we think there is good momentum in Cambridge after an initial worry that while it was vertex somehow representing some macro pieces of everyone wants to now get out of Cambridge but we all know that’s really not true and that was a unique situation based on this yield there and his desire to be on the waterfront and the legacy deal that they had pre-planned.
Okay.
Is the idea still to focus on about 50% pre-leasing you get something started in either of those markets? Yeah.
I think that would be the minimum.
We expect that would likely be higher.
I would think in Cambridge in particular my sense is it would be substantially north of that because we’re likely looking at full or heavy substantial building users.
New York it’s hard to say because we could certainly go forward if we had 200 000 square feet out of 400 because we think the market there has good demand.
But we’re trying to be prudent of how we manage our spend and balance that against are – now being an investment grade company and all the metrics we need to pay attention to.
Got it.
On the Toronto deals can you give us a little bit more detail on things like the structure how much capital do you have in the deal right now and sort of the commitment that the leasing commitment that exists because there has been some press on that project and I just want to understand exactly– Yeah.
I want to be careful because we – we’re not now in the driver seat on the project.
MaRS itself is the financing the financing it’s been providing a 100% at extremely favorable rates by the provincial government.
They’ve announced I think two significant institutional releases.
I think it’s fair to say that the building is more or less substantially committed.
We have I think approximately $75 million into the project and as I said our structure is one of being essentially that of a – kind of think of it as a sub ground lesser with rates that are more or less in line with what that would hold.
We will work with MaRS strategically on leasing and we will also work with them on the marketing side but we don’t have any responsibility anymore for construction or we’re not responsible for the loan.
So the result is actually a win-win for everybody.
At the end of construction do you – is this like a construction line or is just stay with the property for the duration.
You guys are kind of done of the capital side in terms of having to extend? Yeah.
We are down on the capital side.
Yeah.
Hi Tony.
It is Peter Moglia.
There is a construction loans it’s going to fully fund the remainder of the building.
It’ll be in place for approximately 3 years until the building is completely stabilized.
And then there is a commitment as well to permanently finance it out.
So financing looks really good and there is no need for Alexandria capital to do anything further.
Okay got it.
And just a couple of questions.
Just on the leasing side.
One is your 2012 lease expirations moved up sequentially and I was just wondering what happened there? Yeah.
I believe – you said 2012? Yeah.
2012 we had one space in Seattle I believe about 64 000 square feet where the life science entities actually had a right to barley terminator a portion of their space which they did exercise.
The good news is we obviously were aware of it.
Seattle is a very – market for Alexandria and our asset base there.
And we are engaged in early discussions with every quality entity to take that space.
Yeah.
That was Tony to be a specific that is – space is now all office it’s occupied by the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and there relocating that office elsewhere but the demand we’ve got 1% vacancy in Seattle were 55% or more preleased on the future conversion of the Gates Foundation building.
So we view this as actually a good thing to be able to have.
If possible we would lease it immediately for office but we have a desire to potentially convert it to lab because the rents are very strong in Seattle and in fact on the office side as you may know Amazon just increased I think their South Lake Union presence from 1 million to almost 2 million square feet.
So that market has been on fire.
Okay good.
And just last question in Cambridge with Forster leaving the couple of hundred thousand square feet there.
Do you think the downtime there goes into 2012 before you have a replacement tenant and you start get rent on that or like what’s the process there? For sure before we start running and I think the conversion time is probably 12 to 18 months.
Because it’s like 200 it’s a big building and it’s complicated redevelopment.
But we already have I would say advanced discussion for at least probably half the building or more potentially even more on that we might able to announce over the coming quarters that we are seeing demand to be extremely strong and that from a lab side and we know there are a number of office users that could swoop-in potentially and trying to it all which would accelerate it but we’re primarily focused on we’re actually up two big lab users who were deeply engaged with there.
Got it.
If I may have misunderstood or just missed this.
But that building does come out of service then is that the idea.
Oh yeah.
First we’ll move out it’s a kind of a couple of decades old office building that had always been targeted for redevelopment when MIT owned the property they were just going to update it much like 200.
So yeah it will come out of service.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And next we’ll move to Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Yeah.
Hi it’s Quentin here with Michael.
Just firstly in terms of your land held future development the international land held went up by that 1.8 million square feet.
Can you just walk us through what some of the increases I’m not sure whether it was from the Bangalore Helix project you mentioned there were other stuff that’s come in there? Yeah.
It’s primarily from two projects one in Hyderabad and another in the north of the country.
And these are generally opportunities where we could either purchase land or we win a bid for land with the government that they come up from time-to-time and we don’t have a choice and there are not high cost either particular but they provide outstanding sub-market locations for our future development.
And I would say that when they come up if we’re looking at a sub-market especially if the government is running an auction or a bid you have to respond otherwise you lose that opportunity in perpetuity.
So timing is one that we’ve not necessarily our choice in all cases.
Right.
I think you mentioned that your share of Bangalore Helix would be $100 million how come? Right.
Over the five-year period.
Right so these additional projects what are over five-year period what could we be looking at in total out of CapEx in India? Well I think on that project we mentioned hundred million dollars about 20 million a year.
We’ll try to give you better visibility over the next quarter or so as we begin to try to highlight some of the specific locations we’re in.
But I would say Dean as you look into 2012 what number would you scribe to that? Well I think – in the prepared section of our call we highlighted that our stand at least over the next six months and ages only about $34 million.
I would expect that number is going to increase modestly in 2012.
We’ll provide a better outlook over the next 12 to (inaudible).
Okay.
And then just one more form me and I think Michael is got one just in terms of the credit ratings and if you read the language it’s very particular about the level of the volume of development you do.
How much sort of on an annual run rate what volume in dollars million you’re comfortable doing? Yeah I think our goal there (inaudible) is to really manage the amount of leasing risk as well as the development dollars.
But I think the ultimate governance is going to be per balance with not too much under construction at any given point in time but on the development side in the U.
S.
just being real prudent about having significant and everything to date postcards in the U.
S.
that was initiated vertically by us not purchased as a development to complete.
But although vertical projects included in most recent one in Cambridge have been all pre-release in the Cambridge Biogen deal is the third – 100% clearly is projects.
So I think you will see us manage the lease up risk and then manner and just selectively pursue the opportunities that manage through overall dollar investment.
Joe I just had a couple of questions.
I was thinking about the Canada project and when you said back in ‘07 there was obviously a lot of fanfare regarding you talked about the globalization of your business the internationalization on your business creating a life science cluster up in Canada.
Do you think would be Edinburgh Scotland award in that project China which you sort of fit some R&amp;D with couple of projects now you have India.
I guess what’s – obviously not all the – probably the way that they were set out or the fanfare that was created when they were out.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of what’s the beneficial what’s disappointed you and how you think about it? Sure.
I think that’s a great question.
I’d say the environment we’re in today I’d say substantially and radically different than ‘05 ‘06 and ‘07 when we looked at really the moving in a pretty dramatically as far as focus to the internationalization of our business.
I think it’s clear that is happening.
The pharma companies are looking at 20% to 30% growth rates in many of the emerging markets.
So we have to be aware and pay attention to that change.
But I think when it comes more Micro I think we’ve always looked at the Canadian market for example as a – it’s about 10% the size of the U.
S.
market.
We always felt it’s a very good market high-quality real estate low cap rate there is no 1031 transaction tax deferral there.
So not too many projects ever come to market because of tax reasons.
So we’ve tried to build in a measured by small presences in the greater Vancouver area kind of the Montreal area and this was our run at Toronto.
I think at the end of the day this was probably a good result given where we are today after the crash and given that we are now investment grade.
This was probably a very good result for us.
If we go back to 2007 if we were to have the knowledge we have today we might not have pursued some of the projects I would say in Canada or Europe.
But I think our decision to go for Asia it’s been a good decision and one that we think is important.
We have really no balance sheet exposure in Scotland.
We have essentially long-term options that the original cost of the Scottish enterprises there.
So it something develops there we always have that option.
So we really have no exposure there no further exposure to development or in Toronto so that’s a good result although not necessarily intended in 2007.
I think China is one thing that has been a big disappointment.
We’ve got a first in class team there we have first-class buildings but we’re suffering from some of the challenges of just the huge bureaucracy and the challenge of incentives and how they are built out in China.
And so we’re working through that.
I think we’ll be able to announce probably in the next quarter or two our first big pharma signing there.
But it probably isn’t the market we can scale in very easily fell as a result.
We’ve really focused our efforts on India we have more orders than we can take at the moment which is a good thing we do have to pay a quick amount of attention to being very measured and prudent on the deals we do and our capital spend as an overall percentage of the company.
But we do believe there is a huge opportunity there and so I think at the end of the day the way things have worked out really has been for the best.
But if we’re to back and do it again we might do things differently given the knowledge we have today if we had at then.
All right.
That’s helpful.
This question for Dean.
If you think about the $0.05 impact on doing basically terming out your flooding rate debt.
Was that unsecured bond offering at some point in the near future.
Can we think about what that would be sort of an annualized basis and I know it’s a little bit it’s a little bit circular because you’re going to term out your debt.
All of our interest rates are going to go up and because of your capitalizing basically half of your debt for your development pipeline the rate at which you capitalize for your development pipeline would mean that you’re going cap more interest so the gap impact is going to be much less than the cash impact.
And I want to know if you can sort of walk through at least within some goal posts on an annualized basis by doing a fixed rate financing and thinking say you’re going to term out $500 billion of your floating rate debt exposure and picking interest rates 5%.
What would that do to sort of your capitalization rate for your interest capitalization? What would it do there and then what would happen on a GAAP and cash basis? Yeah.
I think you articulated the question and the methodology or the impact on our business very well Michael.
If you use the numbers that you rattled off I don’t have the exact math but using the numbers that you used in your question of $500 million at 5% you have got $250 million term loan being repaid at almost 1% spread over one month LIBOR any incremental – the difference between that term-loan and the $500 million number you’re using in your example would go to repay outstanding borrowings on our line of credit at 2.4% over one month LIBOR.
So there is a differential between those two interest rates LIBOR based rates with the spreads and the 5%.
You’re correct that 50% of that roughly speaking and you could do the math the capitalization of interest relative to the growth interest cost in any given period soften the impact of the higher cost of capital in the refinancing.
The exact impact on weighted average interest rate for the interest capitalization calculation is highly dependent on the mix of fixed rate debt averaging somewhere in the 5% range on our balance sheet and floating rate debt at a much lower cost.
And as that proportion of the mix of fixed to floating changes as it will with the bond offering that also drives the weighted average interest rate used for capitalization.
So the interest rate change for capitalization is driven by the mix of fixed and floating proportionally as well as the transition of – from LIBOR based low cost variable rate debt to a – say five this range fixed rate 10-year financing.
So I hope I gave you – provided some color without actually giving you the actual interest rate because I don’t have my model in front of me to tell you the exact incremental change on our weighted average interest rate.
Right.
But I rough math if we did 500 of the 350 basis point spread it’d based on $17.5 million or almost $0.30 per share cash dilutive but probably was just within half because half of your debt is capitalized so it probably mean that 2012 estimate just people don’t have this in their model would have to come down by about $0.15.
Yeah but keep in mind in this scenario of numbers while 250 will go to repay of term-loan and the short answer of it will be the remaining will to go to pay down or line of credit.
We’re also in the midst of retiring 3.7% notes.
And so that needs to be considered there is a GAAP impact of 6% on those notes.
So it’s a little more complicated than what you described but if you just keep in it very simple so I mean half goes to term-loan half goes to the line of credit.
I fully agree with the math that you’re describing that’s somewhat of – because in reality the LIBOR curve is moving as you look forward LIBOR is moving up and the impact in 2012 as an example won’t be as diluted as it will be for 2011.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we move on to Sheila Mcgrath with Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Yes.
Joel I was wondering if you could give us some color on any interest at the new mission day acquisition on the vacant space there.
At this moment I don’t have anything specific by way of type of or nature of tenant but as I said we have had quite a good showings and quite a few a discussions including as I said life science clinical medical offers and technology I think over the coming quarter or so we’ll be able to give you a more granular view of that but I’d say stay tuned so far it’s really the only significant block of space around.
So we think that if we go 1% vacancy in that market that’ll make things look pretty good.
I’ll let Peter comment as well.
Sheila I just want to remind you that we the way we under wrote this is that we want to get our first tenant in that until month 13 and then we are going to lease it up to over 24 months total.
So we are taking our time we want to push ranks we are coming out at a very high rental rate versus what we under wrote and we are going to be patient and try to accomplish that before we go ahead in lower – try to increase the velocity of the leasing.
Okay.
I wonder there – a quick question on I think we all saw the editorial I think it was the CEO of Merc in the journal discussing about how the government shouldn’t put legislation that might block innovation of pharmaceutical companies and I am just wondering if you could highlight to us legislative things in Washington right now that your tenants might kind of be watching closely.
I may have Amanda comment generally but I would say that there are 3 significant issues that may be more – the big one is the budget over all and any negative impact NIH et cetera so that’s clearly one.
There is a bill which looks likely to pass in the patent area which would be moving our systems from a first-to-invent to first-to-file.
That could be good or bad depending upon I think it go both ways.
The world of technology likes that the world of life science haven’t historically been used to it.
But it’s not necessarily the worst thing in the world you have to be careful about publication and then I think that is an attempt to – the whole FBIR granting as opposed to kind of these renewing year-to-year and that would be good too.
But Amanda you could comment a little more broadly.
I guess may be just one more thing to add since those three items is another possibility with data exclusivity.
There was talk from Washington to decrease the time that biologics are protected from data from their clinical packages.
Currently the Congress instead of holding that year level at 12 years to protect the data but the White House and the Obama administration is pushing for lower seven years.
I think that 12 years is the be optimal link but if it were decreased then I think that could impact incentives to invest in the biologic space although I think we’re sort of optimistic that it won’t go to that seven year lower level.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And we’ll move on to Jonathan Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good afternoon Jay Habermann here with Corner.
Joe can you talk about asset sales as a source of capital.
I know you mentioned I think $75 million on the back half of the year but just curious how you think about source of that capital beyond the current year and how you think about asset sales in that context.
Yeah.
I think as I said in the – in my kind of opening remarks we certainly have moved to a position where we’d like to liquidate a number of land parcels in a variety of sub-markets because number one their non-income reducing; number two they’re really not so much anymore core and in some cases they were purchased with a different mindset pre-crash or at a time even earlier kind of a legacy asset then I can think of a couple of that.
But I want to be careful here for accounting purposes.
So I think you’ll see some of that unfold over the coming quarters and I think even in the coming years as we try to lighten up on any land parcels which could that build sometimes also we’ve had acquisitions historically which have come with adjacent parcels with FAR or we’ve gone out and got it entitled and we don’t view that – we didn’t make that acquisition really for that additional FAR and we see an ability to sell some of that off.
We’ve got one situation in Maryland we’re looking out today where we might be able to monetize something where we felt the building was right but we didn’t necessarily need additional FAR.
So we’ll look at opportunities like that and I think you’ll see us report actual sales that happened we’ve done it in the past.
And I think you’ll see that ramp up a bit.
On the operating property level we are looking clearly at a number of sub-markets in the number of building which have as the company really grew up we acquired.
Now we don’t see them quite of (inaudible) and critical with company’s operations or locations.
And I think you will key up sometime roots about it or one of the assets and look to recycle that capital.
Clearly recycling is very important to us as part of our sources that capital and so I think you’ll see us intensely focused on that.
So hopefully that’s helpful.
That’s helpful.
And (inaudible).
Jerry we’ve been talking about one particular land site for some time now that’s been under contract and it’s that we can tell right now probably close in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then could you speak a bit of guess about market rent growth what you’re seeing across some of your core markets whether it’s Santiago San Francisco and Cambridge? Yeah.
I would say and then will have Peter comment I would say in Seattle we see a very good stable rent.
We’re seeing I think we’re some of the phases we’re rolling and coming up.
We see very positive.
I think the overall impact of what’s going on in public union has been helping that.
I think we see as Peter mentioned our ability to move North of where we performed a 350 rents there to somewhat higher rent and yeah more than we would have guessed before.
South San Francisco is kind of a different story I think we’re struggling competing with second and third generation space and subleased space.
I don’t see any momentum there and kind of an overhang in the market.
I think we’re seeing very positive rent growth in Santiago and stay tuned over the next quarter or two for that.
And I think first time in three or four years maybe more that we are seeing it dramatically turnaround.
I think Cambridge we’re seeing again good strong rent and decent stability there.
Maryland a bit on the weaker side.
New York has been strong and North Carolina has been hanging in there.
I don’t know.
Thank you I mean you touched on basically most of it mission based definitely gotten stronger but South San Francisco gotten weaker and the Mid-peninsula and South San Francisco are pricing about the same level right now between $2 to $2.75 but Santiago is just been at the rock star of all our regions.
At the downturn rents in point and ETC went from about $3 down to $2.25 to $2.50 there was one deal in – point that even went under $2 which was something that we haven’t seen since probably the starting of the company but we’re looking at deals now all about $3 in those submarkets and the demand is strong in fact in one particular project that we are developing.
We had two buildings we had four tenants and so we had fine states were others elsewhere.
Seattle rents had remained fairly stable there.
The overall vacancy and then market has always been low and there has been a lot of growth because there hasn’t been a lot of growth in demand there but rents have remained stable.
Massachusetts remained fairly stable.
We are not seeing too much decrease in demand or decrease in rental rates due to the vertex move out.
That product is not available for now I won’t be for quite a while so pricing has been holding.
As Joe mentioned Maryland has been a weaker market but I’d say that the rental rates are at the levels they have been at over the last three or four years.
In certain instances things are surprising a little bit lower than historical but overall newer high-quality products still on the high 20 low 30s range and then North Carolina is a very stable market not a lot of growth but not a lot of decrease in demand either.
Okay.
And just final question I’m sorry if I’ve missed this.
Have you identified the assets I know you targeted 50 million of acquisitions later this year.
Have you identified the assets so far? We have few negotiations that are ongoing on land sides the closest one.
There is three specifically that one that – it’s further advanced is the one I mentioned earlier that will very likely close in the third quarter.
I was talking about acquisitions not (inaudible).
Sorry I totally messed the question.
Yeah the 50 million on acquisition we do have some in the pipeline yeah.
Okay thank you Yeah.
Thank you And next we’ll move to John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Dean on the land under contract expecting to close in the third quarter what’s the sort of order of magnitude on the parcels there? High teen it’s just beside 20.
Okay.
Joel I know you said that you don’t have any balance sheet exposure in Scotland.
I think a year ago I’ve been under the impression that one of the land parcels wasn’t Scotland was that may be an option exercise of some kind or has that already moved and I missed it with the story there? Yeah I can’t remember – John it’s Dean here.
I can’t remember the exact timeline but it seems like it’s been – feels like it’s been in cost of two years to go when we sold a portion of the land that was tied under an option at a minor – totally practically break even I think it covered our on transaction cost to transition it back out of our options to allow somebody to build on it.
That and so was a small amount of what held.
What we do have on tied up on our balance sheet related to Scotland is primarily diligence cost to get the option under control as well as a little bit of soft costs for early site planning for the overall project.
But based on what we understand the needs are there over time and the way the option is that the – such a favorable basis.
We truly believe that our basis will be recovered meaning we will be able to transfer the option if we choose to other parties and that will probably occur over time.
Okay.
And being just sticking with the same line here it looks like the international land helper development in the international bucket on page 47 Moved up by first $2 million feet during the quarter.
Can you explain what the driver was there? Yeah.
I think in the question that Quentin at Citi Group asked I have commented that most that related to acquisition of the land not particularly high price by any means concurred to U.
S.
standards in our Hyderabad cluster and then one in the North.
And sometimes these land opportunities John as I described come up from time-to-time on bid or auctions that are run by governments either local and national.
And thus you have to kind of respond if that’s the sub market and the location you feel strongly about.
And so we do time-to-time timing is maybe less than in our control than it is.
Just opportunities we’re just kind of add Hawk but those were the two main drivers in that numbers increasing.
Okay.
And then can you – Joel described your ownership interest in (inaudible) projects I know you said the $100 million is your share but you are also the master developer.
So can you just help us understand is it a joint-venture with the government.
What’s the story there? No.
It’s a 60-year ground lease where we have responsibility for helping master plan this whole site.
It’s adjacent what if in Bangalore really the Prime high-tech center of electronic city where emphasize many of the major technology companies are located.
It’s a very good location.
We’ve looked at it for a long time it’s just now very close to off ramp of the new playway.
So you don’t have to go unnecessarily across town.
But in addition to doing the master plan work and the government is (inaudible) are partnered there not in the joint venture but in a Grand lease arrangement.
We do have a commitment over this multi-year period to build up to about 600 000 feet to technical space and above that it’s a 20 million clip a year.
And so that really what we’re talking about we think you’d say I would kind of analogies that so being in kind of the power area it’s fit me a number of pretty big pharma firms and certainly at the heart of the technology center in Bangalore which is one of the best cities in sub-markets in all of India so we really love the location.
And so you’re – forgive for delivering the point but you did say joint-venture so is there another joint-venture partner other than the government or is entirely –? No I’m saying it’s yeah I’m sorry I’m saying it’s not a joint venture it’s really pursuant.
Our relationship is pursuant to a grand lease that’s the structure.
Got it okay.
And then just lastly I thought you said 600 000 square feet for $100 million so it would – is a $165 a foot that it cost to go back and that seems higher than I would have guessed? Overtime it depends I mean we are likely to be building for U.
S.
big U.
S.
or European firms.
We’ll announce probably over the coming quarter or so our prospect built-to-suit that we’ll be delivering for a big pharma there.
So the space is pretty technical and the western standards.
I think the land is much cheaper building costs are somewhat cheaper but obviously the technical infrastructure has to be to international standards.
Okay thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And next we’ll move on to Philip Martin with Morningstar.
Good morning – good afternoon everybody.
Good afternoon.
I just wanted to see if you Joel or whoever may want to speak just in terms of the attitudes among your existing and potential tenants toward development to redevelopment or just even relocating especially if tenants just continue to analyze and manage current and future space needs – some exciting things from that or –? Yeah that’s actually a fairly great question we almost never get.
And I think it probably is there’s two sides of the world.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks a lot of Big Pharmas are – and (inaudible) talked about this quite frequently are exiting or substantially flaming down their core research function on the remote locations and suburban locations.
Pfizer for example is moving two big requirements out of Groton in the – into Cambridge.
One landed at MIT another is still out for market or out for site selection.
Historically they chose Groton because it was a great place it was on the water.
So their fermentation capability was enhanced by that location but they realized for decade they can’t be as productive there as in the heart of – one of the innovation Centre.
So you see Big Pharma moving pretty dramatically along those lines.
That’s the reason we’ve been successful in New York and Mission Bay in particular.
You see a number of other company and we’ll speak about this in the coming quarters Peter will give some highlights than as well moving out of current I would say class B or C-space in the first class A-space upgrading at current rate we see that going on pretty dramatically in San Diego.
We thought it with AluminaI think you’ll see it with a other number of entities.
And I think that’s something we’ve seen a bit in the Bay area.
Bayers move to our Mission Bay also for clusters purposes.
I think there are other companies that will move out of clusters I think because of attention to run rental rates particularly small companies they’re exiting Cambridge.
We've seen that actually for a decade moving to the cheaper suburbs 128 or 495 on those being replaced by bigger stronger companies.
So I think you see some of that so it’s kind of a mixture.
I don’t know Peter or Mandy you guys want to – And one thing I would add is the reason why the pharmaceutical companies are breaking down these remote BI-LO campuses instead of looking – markets in our regions.
Because there are really trying to access innovation and really trying to have a more open collaborative open innovation concept or there locating to be strategic locations to collaborate and really to innovate to increase their own research and development productivity.
So I think that’s a key reason why you are seeing pharma aggressive in these location.
Is there enough – is demand increasing at the rate where space needs – in terms of – how is Alexandria positioned handle that potential increase in need as in terms of land availability space availability et cetera.
Or are there going to be expansions of clusters or new clusters created because of those change in managing space needs? Well I think you’re seeing a rational evasion at big pharma and you’re seeing an excess capacity both on people and then abilities that are now being re-deployed to these very high performance drug.
They call them at least some of the companies call them drug performance unit so moving out of big campuses in to very target tight clusters.
So I think New York is benefited Cambridge is benefited Mission Bay is benefited in particular we see some of that in Seattle certainly a bit of than in San Diego.
So I think (inaudible) over the past many years has been if we could have both land redevelopment assets and just existing space in the best sub-markets that are adjacent to the great centers of innovation the MIT the Harvard the University of Washington the UCSF the UCSB et cetera Duke North Carolina et cetera we’re going to be more likely to be benefited than if we have less quality locations.
And I think that’s been dramatic.
So that’s why over a period of years we try to essentially dominate as best we could the submarkets that we’ve chosen.
And I think we’ve made calls South Lake Union and East Lake Union in Seattle Mission Bay in San Francisco Torrey Pines and UPC in San Diego Cambridge.
So that’s how we’ve tried to position the company.
And now thinking of international growth we clearly see Asia has been an important factor we’ve made kind of a bigger bet on India than we have on China at the moment.
Although we think China will work out it’s just the ability to scale in China is tough and it takes a particularly long time given a whole range of issues.
But I think over time and over the coming decade I think you’ll see other countries in emerging Asia which will provide good growth.
But – so I think it’s really a redistribution of resources among mainly the participants in the life science industry.
And hi this is Peter Moglia.
I just like to add that the way that this trends has been fluctuated hasn’t been – like hey we’re going to move this group out of features we put them in to Seattle because we want to have a presence in Seattle.
It’s been done by acquiring companies in Seattle and instead of taking the product back to the campus actually keeping that company in place and growing it.
Gilead was a perfect example they were a 4 000 square foot tenant of ours.
Gilead purchased the company and we a build-a-suit form for a 110 000 square feet.
So it’s been a net positive in the growth of the industry.
They’re not just taking people away and putting them somewhere they’re purchasing the existing company that needs space and actually growing.
It is extended by – Yeah.
I think you’re saying both.
Yeah.
It sounds like the industry is just growing and expanding maybe as a result partially of the recession of the down cycle but also just try to – again manage and refocus space things.
Yeah.
It is internationally and one has also be aware there is downsizing and rationalizing heavily in the U.
S.
and Europe and where those have been are really in the these remote campus or locations luckily we don’t have exposure to.
You look at Michigan Illinois places in the UK places in Austria France Italy and other locations.
Our entire thesis has always been if you stay in the AAA cluster locations with adjacency you’re going to be benefited by this reinvention and moment of the personalized medicine model and I think that’s what’s been improve true.
And so we just have to be careful that we manage our business prudently and be highly discipline in our site selections and that’s why we being very careful overseas.
Okay.
And then just one last question on land sales and even other assets sales.
And the land sales do you expect to be selling the land North of where your aggregate costs with respect to that land? (Inaudible) Okay.
You’ll see in fact although a small transaction in the third quarter some 20 million high teens.
I think you’ll be pleasantly surprised that the price per foot that we’re going to see of on the parcel.
Okay.
And then the same thing on assets sales.
I’m assuming that there is pretty significant interest out there for what you are marketing and that would be north of your aggregate cost there? Yeah correct.
Just to be fair we don’t have a list that we’re working from right now.
We’re deepen in evaluation and see which assets may line with particular users owners other parties that may find use to the particular assets that we might consider.
So I think as we go through the next few quarters we’ll provide more color as those decisions are (inaudible).
Okay okay.
Thank you very much.
Yeah thank you Philip.
And now we’ll conclude the question and answer session.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Marcus for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
We thank you everybody.
We’re little over an hour but thank you very very much and we’ll talk to you on the third quarter call.
And that will conclude today’s call.
We thank you for your participation.
Please stand by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
The company’s actual results may differ materially from these projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K and its other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to the third quarter earnings call.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga Steve Richardson who is just elected by the board the Chief Operating Officer Krupal Raval and Amanda Cashin.
As you know the current macroenvironment is highly volatile it is mixed across the country and our assumption is that it is not going get noticeably better in 2012.
Let me start with guidance since there’s been a lot of focus on that.
Dean will address guidance in detail.
He’ll discuss the current range the detailed assumptions behind that with our stress test analysis.
He’ll also focus on the fourth quarter ‘11 NOI and FFO run rates and the fourth quarter ‘12 NOI and FFO run rates.
We’ll update guidance again on Investor Day.
And in retrospect I think in the future we’ll provide a wider initial guidance range for future years and narrow as we go through the quarters and assess our performance as we go.
I think that will be a lot easier for all of you.
Our 2012 growth rate could well be in the mid-single digit range.
The environment is obviously different but many of the metrics that are evident today show interesting similarities to the post-Internet crash years of 2002 through 2004.
Substantial effort is under way to move legacy suburban assets in the key adjacency urban assets and you’ll see the results of that in the coming quarters.
We do have continuing solid demand from our ARE’s urban adjacency locations notwithstanding substantial negative headlines San Diego Cambridge and New York City as examples.
Let me talk about maybe good bad ugly and the misunderstood.
On the good side the achievement this past quarter of our investment grade rating has substantially de-risked the company’s balance sheet.
We transformed from 2008 as an unrated niche REIT to today as an investment grade niche REIT with a broad set of capital sources with the best-in-class adjacency assets.
Those enabled us to attract high quality tenants which really are transformational have large addressable markets have solid growth prospects and are category leaders with competitive barriers and attractive business models.
We’re making very good progress in leasing space vacant re-lease re-development and hopefully development as we go forward with reasonable economics given the current macro environment.
We’re maintaining on an annual basis solid core operating metrics within a range of reasonableness again given the current environment.
We’ve made and we’ve seen dramatic positive progress made on the lease up of the assets and the re-development pipeline and the two new assets coming into the re-development pipeline 400 Tech Square.
We may be almost fully leased there shortly.
And also Steve will report a little bit about our 1551 Eastlake the former Gates Foundation headquarters building making great progress there.
On the – that was the good.
The bad while we’re generating operating metrics which vary quarter to quarter and we have a very strong leasing volume this quarter almost a million square feet our GAAP NOI was slightly negative for the first time in the company’s history but luckily cash NOI has been healthy.
GAAP rental rate decreased for the third quarter as you saw was primarily due to a step down were we signed original leases on significant renewals on those which were signed I remember actually some of the negotiations 10 years ago at the top of the Internet bubble one in San Francisco bay and one in Cambridge.
On the ugly or the misunderstood I think it’s pretty clear the driver’s underlying our life science thesis remain intact despite headline to the contrary.
The biopharma industry has undergone really thorough transformational change and the prospects per significant size as well as growing biopharma companies requiring quality space and the best adjacency locations had been actually increased not decreased due to their transformed business models.
And their need to move more critical functions from isolated so be it style of campuses to the heart of the innovation standards and our business model our best in class assets and our locations really provide the sweet spot for us in this transformational process.
We will continue to concentrate on these key adjacency urban locations.
Pharm-aid is very profitable has over almost $200 billion in cash on the balance sheet as of the end of the quarter and total biopharma R&amp;D remains very healthy at well north of $60 billion.
We believe that the business case remains intact that the U.S.
is and will remain the heart and center of entrepreneurial and novel discovery innovation in medical and scientific research.
But companies will continue as evidenced virtually every day.
They continue to cut costs to better their top and bottom line results and clearly pricing and reimbursement is a key pressure point.
Just a couple of recent cuts noticed that there’s been a continuing trend to offshore process R&amp;D not discovery R&amp;D.
Clinical trial work is broadening into quite a number of countries and things like data management and other kind of office kind of efforts can be offshored and it’s up to I think the people in this country to provide a high quality and effective and efficient workforce.
But clearly innovative discovery and R&amp;D is headquartered and situated here in the U.S.
The industry transformation is well on its way.
The modernization of the business models is evident.
Innovation is the key to continuing success and it’s clear both North America and in European biopharma companies have the attributes to continue to do – continue their global leadership with pretty solid growth.
The NIH has been a huge headline of late about $30.9 billion for this past year.
2012 is unknown.
The House has a bill that it could increase more than $1 billion.
The Senate has a bill that it could be down $190 million but not bad considering the environment we’re in and there’s no real opposition the strong NIH budget in government.
It just is a function of getting caught up with the really big items in defense entitlements et cetera and just overall spending.
2013 there is a scenario if these guys don’t get together guys and gals by I think November 2.
There would be 7.9% automatic budget cut to the NIH budget for fiscal 2013.
Clearly the strongest recipients will survive.
These are five-year grants.
So those grants that are in the hopper now won’t be affected.
If – not only my opinion but I think most people’s opinion that are familiar with the NIH that lower tier recipients would be negatively impacted by lesser new grants.
They’d be about $2 billion less.
But I think the great grant recipients will continue to garner their fair share.
I think one good sign this year is the FDA as of 9:30 has already approved more drugs in the U.S.
26 than in all of 2010 which were at 24.
Moving on to operations and leasing we’re very pleased with the second highest leasing quarter in the company’s history at almost 1 million square feet.
Very strong momentum in Cambridge where we have a great position in the market 29 leases at 402 000 square feet on renewed and released cash down about 3% GAAP up 3%.
San Francisco in mass renewals the 10-year ones that I just told you about were really the big contributors to those.
On the development and redevelopment and vacancy side we had 27 leases at 583 000 square feet including the 307 000 square foot build-to-suit for Biogen Idec which just announced their Phase III results for the oral multiple sclerosis drug somewhere which is – or likely to garner something like $2 billion to $4 billion per year and their stock price has been on fire this year.
The 15-year lease we hope to deliver in the last half of 2013 we have a joint groundbreaking tomorrow I think with the Governor of Massachusetts the Mayor of Cambridge the company Boston – Biogen Idec and in conjunction with the companion building developed by Boston Properties.
The remaining 2011 lease rolls 572 000 150 000 are leased or expected to get done here shortly 294 000 in two redevelopments.
We’ve talked about 400 Tech Square in 1551 Eastlake which leaves about 128 000 for the remainder of the year not so bad given the amount we started with.
The amounts are pretty small about 40 000 in San Diego which should be a kind of a positive about 24 000 in Maryland which is likely to be negative about 40 000 in (inaudible) which is maybe kind of neutral 21 000 North Carolina neutral and just a small amount in Seattle.
In 2012 we’ve got about 10% of the asset base rolling at about – our portfolio operating at about 1.3 million square feet 25% at least are expected to be lease 10% is into redevelopment or change of use and 65% is marketing.
240 000 square feet in San Diego is likely to be positive about 125 000 San Francisco likely to be positive 135 000 in Boston could be by and large neutral depending upon on the location if there in the suburbs.
We’ve got the biggest 258 000 in Maryland likely to be slightly down at about 64 000 in Seattle which could be kind of breakeven.
So with that having been said let me turn the call over to Steve Richardson who’s going to highlight some of the details on the West Coast and then we’ll go to Dean.
Hello this is Steve and today I’ll review the key trends on the West Coast in the Seattle San Francisco and San Diego cluster markets.
Starting north to south Seattle the University of Washington continues to expand and they’ve broken ground in South Lake Union on 450 000 square feet of Life Science space.
This is on the hills of Amazon a very significant expansion in the same area which includes job openings now for more than 3 000 workers.
As we’ve seen in our other core cluster markets the life science and technology companies are converging with one another in the absolute best location to attract the highest quality talent possible.
This area the South and East Lake Union area where we’ve historically aggregated our assets is a very strong vital and dynamic cluster compared to other submarkets were lab buildings have struggled and have been vacant for a long period of time and are actually forcing the landlords to pursue desperate measures in the market.
The key CBD life science clusters remain solid with lease rate for new space in the mid40 triple net range and vacancies of just 1.5% in the Lake Union area and little vacancy in the First Hill area.
Finally the 1551 East Lake project that Joel referenced is proceeding very well and we’re pleased to report we’ve got 51% pre-leased as of today.
Moving down the coast to San Francisco the technology sector continues to drive top line growth in absorption into the third quarter stretching from the Soma area south of market down to Silicon Valley.
UCSF continues to make significant investment in Mission Bay with the hospital steel structure clearly defining the magnitude of this multi-billion dollar investment.
The Stanford submarket is now quite strong with single digit vacancy and lease rate in the low 30s to low 40s for second generation space.
Additionally VMware’s purchase of the Roche site in the Stanford Research Park removed a total of a 1 000 000 square feet of life science product from the inventory and that will further tighten the metrics.
South San Francisco as we’ve reported in the past continues to lag with a 14% vacancy rate and we do remain cautious as lease rates continue to hover in the low to mid30s.
Steady progress fortunately is being made at East Jamie Court project with approximately 44% at lease now and 20% in serious discussions.
And specifically with East Jamie Court we have three separate letters of intents with tenants.
They’re evaluating those closely.
The regional team is in constant contact with the decision-makers and the brokers involved in the process and we do have an existing tenant who is already interested in exploring expansion possibilities based upon a partnering transaction that they’re getting very close to.
Moving up to Mission Bay we have 1% direct vacancy excluding a couple small retail suites and the details there include a 1500 Owens where are now fully leased with UCSF expansion for the fourth time in the building.
We’re finalizing an expansion for 4 000 square feet on the first quarter of 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South.
And finally we’re finalizing an expansion for 24 000 feet in that building where tenant will look to pay for an option to keep the space off the market until early 2013 as they wait an important milestone.
499 Illinois is in full marketing campaign mode and tours and preliminary discussions include the following: we’ve just had a tour with a very strong technology company and their advisers.
They’re closely evaluating 499 as an alternative.
We do expect fuller tours with their teams and advisers during the next month or so.
We’ve just received an RFP from an emerging stage technology company.
We’ll be carefully revealing that as well.
And then finally we have ongoing preliminary discussions with two institutional quality life science users.
These are very serious users.
They have limited options in the market for large blocks of life science space and have acknowledged and recognized the value of 499 Illinois.
Finally moving southward to San Diego the market as we’ve noted recently again is very healthy particularly in the Torrey Pines cluster.
They can see us in the 9% range and lease rates have improved by 10% or 15% during the past 12 to 18 months to the mid to high 30s triple net.
We really see demand being driven there by two segments one industrial biotech including the biofuels segment and two maturing biotech companies.
Right now we’re tracking approximately 300 000 square feet of requirements in the market and expect to capture a little more than our fair share of this demand.
With that I’ll hand it over to Dean.
Thanks Steve.
Real quickly here on our guidance we’ve updated for 2011 to FFO per share diluted $4.38 and EPS diluted of $1.72.
Our guidance for 2011 implies a target FFO per share diluted of $1.10 for the fourth quarter of ‘11 and this represents a good run rate going forward or $440 on an annualized basis.
Our range of guidance which Joel touched on earlier for 2012 was $450 to $454 for FFO per shares diluted.
It includes among other assumptions the following operating and asset-based assumptions and I’m going to pass on commenting on sources and uses since it’s included on the page 13 of our supplemental package.
Our guidance assumes FFO per share diluted approaching $1.20 per share in the fourth quarter of ‘11.
I think one of the challenges given the significant amount of NOI coming on this year is giving some clarity to – FFO per share approaching $1.20 in the fourth quarter of ‘12.
But given more clarity on NOI growth I’d like to walk through our reasonable assumptions and really highlight some of the upside included in the range of our guidance.
Our press release projected an increase in NOI of approximately $47 million when comparing 3Q ‘11 annualized NOI of approximately $100.8 million to the fourth quarter of ‘12 annualized NOI of about $112.5 million.
The projected growth in NOI is back and weighted due to timing of deliveries and is related to significant pre-leasing or committed spaces.
This results in an approximate 30% contribution of that NOI growth down the bottom line FFO after offsetting the reduction of capitalized interest as we transfer these assets into service.
The historical cost basis or GAAP basis of our qualifying basis which we expect to transfer into service related to this NOI is in the high $400 million range.
Let me walk through each line item which is really contributing to the growth of NOI.
And as for reference I think you can follow it along on page 46 or 47 of our supplemental package because I’m going to start with development – redevelopment and development assets and the contribution.
1119 North Torrey Pines is an 82 000 square foot project under redevelopment.
And the fourth quarter run up in NOI of the $47 million and you’re going to see $1.2 million on an annualized basis contribute to this but it purely is related to the 20% that’s leased today.
And so there’s really a meaningful upside because we’ve assumed no further occupancy in our guidance assumptions through the fourth quarter of ‘12.
And to frame this redevelopment NOI component it approximates about $18 million of that 40-somewhat million of NOI group.
John Hopkins Court which is the next 90 000 square foot asset the NOI group here will be $4 million based on executed leases so really no risk to the assumption other than a couple weeks on construction deliveries.
Campus Pointe is 204 000 square feet.
It’s about $9 million contribution.
43% of that is executed 47% of that is under negotiation so we’re in pretty good shape with that.
6075 Nancy Ridge is about 47 000 square feet.
We get about 800 000 contribution on an annualized basis.
That assumes 63% occupancy by the fourth quarter of ‘12 and keep in mind half of this 63% is already preleased.
400 Technology Square is about 210 000 square feet in total a portion of it will roll in October and the entire building will be under redevelopment.
At the moment the disclosure only shows 49 000 square feet.
The assumption here for our model has meaningful upside because we’re reflecting a neutral impact on an annualized basis and that assumption assumes only 50% of the building is stabilized at that point.
And as you point out that we have an anchor tenant under negotiation for that space.
215 First Street will contribute about $1.2 million in NOI partly through redevelopment and partly through the previously delivered space on that redevelopment project.
Quadrangle is a small asset at about 30 000 square feet.
We get about half a million of NOI contributions 61% of that is preleased and were projected to be 100% by the end of 2012.
1551 East Lake is a future redevelopment project that comes in in the fourth quarter.
It’s neutral but represents upside to our NOI assumption and our guidance.
51% of this is pre-leased and were only projecting leased up assumptions to 69% by the fourth quarter of ‘12 clearly providing room to beat that metric.
The other projects which add up to about $1.3 million get us to about $18 million for redevelopment contributions.
Turning to the development schedule on page 47 the 4755 Nexus we’ve taken a very conservative view on NOI contribution that we would not have occupancy by the end of ‘12.
I have a feeling that we’ll be ahead of that schedule given the dynamic that we’re executing that in San Diego.
5200 Research is the build-to-suit for Illumina.
You get $4 million of NOI contribution.
Keep in mind this is 100% leased with a target delivery in the fourth quarter of ‘12.
455 Mission Bay it’s only 40 000 square feet.
76% of this is committed at about $1.6 million of NOI.
A little bit might be contributing from previously delivered space in that number as well.
On Illinois 219 000 square feet.
We’re expecting consistent modeling with our underwriting from acquisition at about two-thirds of the project being leased on average by about 10.1 which would generate at least a $4.8 million amount of NOI and keep in mind I should have pointed out these are GAAP numbers.
East Jamie Court 107 000 square feet to go 16% of it is pre-lease.
We’re assuming an additional 25% of that; 107 is leased in the third quarter and another third quarter of ‘12 and another 25% in the fourth quarter of ‘12 contributing $3.6 million of NOI by the fourth quarter of ‘12.
A couple other smaller projects one of which is leased that are potential developments one is pre-leased today.
The aggregate approximately 140 000 square feet will contribute by the fourth quarter about $1.4 million NOI bringing us to about $16 million of development NOI contribution annualized by the fourth quarter of ‘12.
7 Triangle was a development project we’ve just delivered in the quarter for the incremental add between the third quarter and the fourth quarter of ‘12 although this will come in next quarter or in the fourth quarter as 1.9 of incremental NOI; recently delivered redevelopment and releasing of the other half of the project at 500 will generate about $2 million of NOI.
When I say releasing it’s re-tenanting the space because the other half is currently occupied.
Fourth quarter acquisitions included in our sources and uses of capital of about $20 million will contribute about $1.1 million of NOI growth.
Same property annualized NOI growth contribution will be about $5.9 million on a GAAP basis.
Turning next to straight-line rents for 2012 we’re expecting $6 million per quarter about $24 million for the year fairly consistent with the total straight-line rents we’re expecting for 2011.
FAS 141 revenue is projected to be about 800 000 per quarter starting in the fourth quarter of ‘11 continuing through the fourth quarter of ‘12.
Occupancy has projected to increase slightly averaging in the 95% range in 2012 same property NOI growth on a – is expected to be about 3% to 5% on the cash basis and 0% to 2% on a GAAP basis.
And let me try to highlight where the contribution is coming from.
On a GAAP basis San Francisco the Bay area is actually going to provide a meaningful component of same store performance really from lease up plus in vacant space.
Most of this is under negotiation or renewals that we – or targets that we expect to move into that space.
It’s a little early.
It’s not quite that I would classify as negotiating stage.
If you turn to New York Seattle Canada we’re getting pretty good contribution from those markets primarily driven by lease up of vacancy or lease renewals.
The downside in the same store happens to be in the Boston market primarily because there is a bit of space in Cambridge that will go dark at least in our model for a period of time as we tend at the space.
Turning to cash same property performance I thank you the generally theme here is there’s significant spike in cash rents primarily driven by leasing that occurred this year which had a little bit of free rent involved in the leasing transaction for example San Francisco will contribute meaningfully the Suburban DC market as well as New York and New York obviously has to do with the lease up of a brand new development project so little more irrelevant from a free rent perspective.
The downside from a same store again appears in the Boston market primarily due to this same situation with a temporary vacancy in Cambridge as we re-tenant some space.
Moving on to rental rates and the expectations for at least renewals and release in the space.
We’re projecting 5% on a GAAP basis or up to 5% on a GAAP basis and arranged slightly negative to slightly positive on a cash basis.
First on the cash statistics it’s really been waited by just a few leases one in Boston as we relocate a tenant in some nicer quality space into some less expensive space but we anticipate because of the time this lease would execute there would be a step-down in that particular releasing.
We have some office space upper rollover renewal in Maryland and that market from an office perspective remains challenging.
And we also have – actually the positive year is positive leasing in San Francisco of all places due to the lower expiring rate on the lease expiration.
As we turn to G&amp;A G&amp;A is projected to increase 5% to 8% over 2011 primarily due to the growth in the breadth and depth of our operations.
Capitalized interest is projected to decrease in 2012 when compared to 2011 to approximately the $54 million to $60 million range.
And it’s quite dependent on the timing of deliveries in new construction.
Moving next and importantly the sources and uses of capital.
Due to the top capital markets since receipt of our investment grade ratings we have not had the opportunity to announce our debut bond transaction.
However completing the rating assessment was a significant turning point for the transition of our capital and balance sheet strategy.
It’s important to note that we prepared a very broad range of stress test capital sensitivities for 2012 guidance including some assumptions that were more punitive to guidance.
We have no plans to open the bond market for REITs.
Pricing today for a debut is when it would result in an all-in-right north of 6%.
And we are waiting for a more stable environment issued bonds since we project ample liquidity and want to be patient.
So we have pushed back our bond offering to the latter part of 2012 and increased our all in rate on our debut bond offering by 75 basis points to 5.75%.
We remain focused on not expending our capital needs and our uses of capital assume no acquisitions and are focused purely on construction outside of debt repayments and dividends.
The equity component of our capital needs can only be achieved through net cash flows recycling of capital from asset sales joint ventures and common equity.
Given the market environment we expect to look more aggressively at asset dispositions.
However until we finalize and execute on our strategy we are not prepared to include it in our guidance beyond the modest $112 million projected dispositions through the fourth quarter of ‘12.
We are committed not to raise equity at the price of our stock of late.
However we have assumed $200 million of other capital in our guidance spread over multiple quarters.
The key here is that the assumption can be viewed as various asset sales preferred equity or an ATM program all with fairly similar impacts to FFO results.
Let me briefly comment on credit metrics and our refinancing those or term loan here.
We remain committed to our investment grade credit for fund including debt to EBITDA targets close to six to six-and-a-half times except temporarily if necessary.
Fixed charge coverage ratio greater than two-and-a-half times and then maintaining adequate liquidity on balance sheet through significant availability on our line of credit and through cash.
As it relates to our new unsecured term loan we’re anticipating closing to $500 million term loan shortly.
The term would be about five years probably a four plus one pricing at 1.5% over one month LIBOR.
The proceeds of this will go to reduce the outstanding balance under our line of credit providing significant amount of liquidity and availability ultimately either unsecured bonds or liquidity under our unsecured line of credit will allow us to retire the $250 million outstanding under our 2012 unsecured term loan.
With that I’ll turn it back to Joel.
So if we could go to Q&amp;A operator please.
Absolutely (Operator Instructions) and our first question will come from Jonathan Habermann of Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning everyone.
I guess the question here on dispositions Dean you’d mentioned possibly raising above the $112 million in guidance but can you give us sense of the magnitude that you’re anticipating perhaps beyond that original forecast? Yeah let me – Hi Jay it’s Joel.
Let me comment on that it would be our goal to see that maybe approaching to $200 million to $250 million if we’re successful.
But clearly we can’t assume that.
Okay.
And just switching to 499 Illinois can you give us some sense of the tenant looking at the space? What they’re timing would be for actually taking use of that space? Yeah this is Steve.
We’re on track.
We’re in a full marketing campaign mode.
As I noted we’ve had tours.
There is live genuine activity in the market.
We do need to complete the warm-up process.
So I think we’re talking about a mid-2012 occupancy target.
Okay.
And just final question can you just give us any update I guess on New York City in phase two? Yeah we continue to view New York as a really strong market.
We had one opportunity this week that had a time issue that was pretty sizeable and pretty exciting that we did have to let pass and not take on but it was quite interesting.
We do have two requirements that are external that are both institutional and one internal for substantial expansion for New York when we decide to kick off the West Tower which is 400 000 square feet.
So that’s really – what will determine that is really the capital that will fund it and we clearly would want to move those opportunities to signed leases and have over 50%.
At the moment none of that is in our current 2012 plan.
Okay.
And just to clarify in the dispositions I guess what portion of that would be assets versus possibly liquidating from land? The majority of that would be assets.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
First question is on Illumina and they’ve preannounced and had a tough time.
Just curious if you could give a sense if there’s any outs of them and either their main lease or with the building you are building for them the expansion part of that site? No.
And in fact we’ve had discussions with them as late as yesterday.
Some things we can’t share with you because they aren’t public.
They did file an 8-K today on their small layoff.
We know where that’s coming from but it is not affecting their operation that we’re involved with.
I’ll ask Amanda to comment on Illumina because I think there is a certainly misunderstanding about – broadly about kind of what’s going on there.
Sure.
So as you mentioned Illumina had announced their earnings and had announced sort of a pre-guidance to their earnings and move on to some reductions that they’ve seen from some of their academic customer spending and a lot of that they’re attributing to sort of the uncertainties that the academic researchers are seeing from federal funding from research grants.
So that has slowed customer spending down.
And also – that has also impacted from the roll off from the stimulus fund that had a peak in 2010.
So they’re kind of seeing reduction of revenues a 1% decrease in third quarter 2011 from third quarter 2010.
But remember this is a profitable company that has a $3.7 billion market cap and continues to be committed to growth and innovation and investing in research and development.
So I think we feel so pretty comfortable that while their stock price may have dipped it may have been in responses perhaps in over valuation in the market due to the really really high expectations both have as they really are a topnotch DNA sequencing company that has a lot of conduct to really impact the market in the long term for genome sequencing.
Yeah and I think Tony as far as the phase that they are taking they have reiterated the time schedule and the space and we don’t see any changes in that whatsoever.
Okay and the $3.3 million I guess I calculated that as in terms of the fourth quarter GAAP NOI on that project.
Is that the full amount with the exception of the 4 million that would then come in from the additional property you’re building there? Yeah that’s correct.
Okay and if I – I just looked at that just to understand the bridge from where Biogen was there and where Illumina is there now.
You said the roll down sequentially I think is $1.7 million so it suggest that I guess Biogen was running at about $5 million a quarter in NOI about $20 million a year.
Is that right in terms of GAAP? Yeah from a GAAP perspective you’re right.
Roughly speaking if you add 1.7 million on top roughly I think the GAAP rate was around $36.
Effectively what happened was when we originally purchased the property it was subject to a 15 month leaseback.
As you are well aware 45 days later we executed the lease with Illumina for the campus and they had the desire to be in the project much sooner.
So we went back to Biogen and try to figure out how to get space back sooner so we can meet and accelerate the delivery Illumina’s benefit.
We were able to achieve that not all at once but over time and so the 15-month shrunk.
From a pure accounting perspective it required the re-estimate of the amortization period of the 141 revenue under a shortened timeframe which resulted in $1.7 million of higher GAAP rent income in the third quarter.
That really worked through the process as we were trying to figure out exactly what that estimated delivery date would have been for Illumina to take the space.
And as we took the space back from Biogen we were able to figure out the exact timeframe which really is the reason for not a whole lot of clarity until it happened.
And so I guess I’m just trying tie in – maybe another way to look at this if my numbers here are close in hindsight does the Biogen yield on a GAAP basis work out to have been something like 15% plus.
And now with Illumina in there you’re trying get to your 10% that you’ve kind of guided to for a while in the space is that kind of like...
Yeah.
But...
...different? Yeah.
Something’s – Tony I didn’t do the math but something a little unusual from a yield perspective on a GAAP basis during Biogen’s occupancy it was not originally targeted that way because we thought we had a 15-month deal.
But you’re right the acceleration or shortening of their lease term resulted in an increase in GAAP rent resulting later after Biogen ruled out and Illumina took occupancy in a normalized run rate going forward and I think I provided that number at $38 and some change in the supplemental.
Okay.
And then a question for Steve on the Illinois Street property you talked about a couple of institutional life science tenants that we’re looking at it.
Just curious as to what their alternatives would be like what other types of things would they be looking at when they consider that space? Yeah.
Again I did use the word preliminary Tony so I do want to say that again.
But right now they have no other alternatives.
I mean 1700 Owens is essentially fully leased.
1500 Owens now is fully leased with UCSF expanding for the fourth time.
455 is now fully leased or committed.
So as far as high quality life science space for laboratory users there really is no other alternative down there in Mission Bay.
But would tenants or prospective tenants like that consider other markets or what would be sort of their mind set or is it matter of maybe we’ll go into new space maybe we won’t do anything at all? I mean it sounds like they don’t have an option? No.
These particular types of users really don’t have an option.
Going down to South San Francisco isn’t particularly viable so I think it’s just a matter of time.
Okay.
And then just a couple of questions on the development side between I guess now and the end of next year about $83 million of funds to China and India curious as to A how many projects does that encompass; B is that all of the spending is that just part of half to get certain projects done; and then I guess C what are the returns like on something like that? Yeah.
Actually it’s – just to clarify you’re right Tony in total 83 over five quarters.
It’s about $20 million in the fourth quarter and 62 projected for next year.
And we are anticipating delivery of some space soon so you do see some dollars maybe at a little higher rate than what we have incurred on average for 2011.
So you’ll see that soon and that’ll probably come out on both markets soon both India and China.
Yeah.
I’ll ask Steve to comment broadly on China and then I will on India just generally about kind of where we are in today.
Yeah.
We’re making good progress there.
I just returned on Friday from both of our projects there in China.
We’re having serious discussions with a significant anchor tenant for the South China project that we’re feeling optimistic about and then have continued detailed conversations with a couple of key users for the North China project.
More to come on those but these are substantive discussions with real users with requirements.
Now in the North China project we’re working to try to finish that and there will be additional investment in the build out.
What’s emerged is a possible institutional/governmental entity that could take a floor more in North China together with potentially a North American client.
And then in South as Steve said we are on the (inaudible) of having a major anchor tenant there that’s a credit western pharma kind of company.
Probably the bulk of those funds will flow into India primarily in two submarkets.
One submarket with one major tenant which is one of our top tenants who is doing.
Or in the process of delivering a project to them right now and there would be several follow on will actually paces.
And so that’s been the bulk of our focus in India and we continue to invest and try to have a number of key land parcels and kind of to build that suite approach.
As we said I think on previous calls our benchmark for on and after tax basis is to try to be about 500 basis points above what we could get on the development here in the U.S.
and we think we will be able to achieve that.
China is hard to say at this point.
I think it can be – we’re still in that target area.
Okay.
And last question just on Toronto can you give us the economics there and what’s your I guess basis on that right now and just when that income comes in? Sure Johnny.
I think this is filed out in this supplemental as well as last and it was almost in a transition right over our second quarter earnings.
So we were able to provide limited information at that time.
But basically MaRS a nonprofit entity in Toronto that did Phase I and affiliate of MaRS where we moved in forward with Phase II and Phase II development in Toronto that we had originally anticipated doing.
And you can actually find their press release on their own website so this information is available but basically we executed a ground lease within affiliate to allow them to move forward.
MaRS has announced commitments with two institutional anchor tenants along with attractive financing from infrastructure in Ontario.
So from Alexandria’s perspective we have no financial obligations related to the construction or the financing of the project and we expect ground rents to commence with the completion of construction of the building.
And what’s your all-in basis for that land and what’s the ground rent or what’s the return on that? Yeah we have helped you – give you a brief description on what we actually had invested into the project.
The original structure was the ground lease from MaRS.
We then invested into design and soft cost as well as a lot of hard construction to go below grade for a parking garage.
The foundation in structure to support the building and we kept it off right at street level.
MaRS will finish the project from that point.
So we had roughly somewhere in the $80 million range invested in the project.
And the way this work is – do we had a basically a 99 year at least we get it back roughly in 49 years.
And rentals begin upon completion of the building and step over time.
Ultimately we get a modest return on this ground rent.
I wouldn’t say it was the most attractive ground lease structure but we do get a nice single digit return on our investment.
But again it won’t happen for a few years probably 2013 or later.
And we don’t have future payments on the original ground lease which is...
Yeah everything is being passed through.
So now we’re no longer responsible for operating cost or the ground.
I see.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question will come from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Good.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Dean thank you for the details regarding the redevelopment and development NOI.
If we can just go into detail just in terms of the ins and outs of how that – the cost associated with that amount.
And I think you broke out just between the development and redevelopment was about $34 million out of the call it $45 million of NOI and then I guess there were some that had been recently completed.
But can you walk through – you really compared this 4Q to 4Q.
What sort of percentage of that NOI comes online in the fourth quarter? And then first second third and fourth it sounded like some of it was coming earlier than the fourth quarter of next year.
Yeah Michael I don’t have that schedule in front of me but let me try to – if we turn to page 46 and 47 I’ll try to give everybody some – a better depth to the question you asked.
John Hopkins is 100% leased and it’s a second quarter ‘12 delivery date.
Campus Point is a little bit of split between 4Q 1Q over the next one or two quarters with the other half being fourth quarter of ‘12.
Nancy Ridge was just the next asset on the schedule is at least first half ‘12 on the lease component.
400 Technology Square is late in the year for ‘12 215 is small and we passed on that.
Basically that one will be delivered shortly.
Quadrangle’s first half of ‘12 9800 Medical Center is a fourth quarter of ‘12.
As you move off to the development schedule 5200 Research Place is a fourth quarter delivery.
Illinois with a fourth quarter assumption for the lease up and East Jamie I believe I gave 25 and 25 in 3Q and 4Q.
So it’s really back end of the fourth quarter weighted.
And then as you total this so it was $34 million and then you had 7 Triangle and recent development stuff was another $4 million so $38 million in total and then the balance was same-store and acquisition what does that NOI upon full stabilization grow to? Because I think you had also talked that let’s say for Torrey Pines you’re only assuming it’s 20% leased it was only $1.2 million.
Obviously the full NOI contribution is going to – if you lease it up it’s going to start hitting later years.
But I’m just trying to understand the magnitude of this NOI.
Yeah that’s a real relevant question Tony let me see if I’ve got a schedule that goes out beyond that and it’s not perfect because I’ve got a development schedule that looks at all development.
I guess I’m going to ask it in a different way you talked about that these projects comprise high 400 millions of cost.
What is the yield or the ultimate stabilized yield is it just the 38 million that you’re talking about today and it relates to the same high $400 million which is about an 8% yield? Yeah it is right in that 8% range and I would say if I had to guess just looking on the delivery they provided you somewhere approaching 20% has yet fully to come in and that number could be bigger.
I mean we could just run these estimates mid-quarter assumptions on the information I provided.
I just don’t have that breakdown with me.
And then how much when you’re talking about $500 million or high $400 million of cost investment when you look on page 43 of your supplemental you have $604 million that you’ve spent on development and redevelopment.
Is that not that the high $400 million you’re talking about is that all captured in this $600 million? Or has some of it already been transferred to operation or vice versa? Is money to be spent over the next 12 months that eventually will contribute to NOI to next year? Just trying to put all the pieces together.
Yeah you framed it well Michael it’s the latter.
So the $300 million on page 43 $300 million of active redevelopment basis – development basis of $190 million the basis I’m referring to sits in there.
It also includes spend-to-complete.
And so how much spend-to-complete to generate that $45 million – or sorry $38 million of NOI is still left present? Yeah unfortunately Michael I don’t have that breakdown with me.
But we can chat about it later.
And that spend is included and effectively in this capital budget that’s on page 45...
That is correct.
You have $416 million part of that is part of this high $400 million delivery that you’re talking about? That is correct.
Is there a dilution in terms of the timing of when something gets delivered versus when it contributes NOI that could also be affecting your numbers next year effectively the project as delivered in the first quarter you stopped capitalizing interest but the NOI is not being recognized until the fourth quarter is that also playing a part in this sort of earnings value or dilution that’s happening? All right.
That is true on a few of the assets but I think where it’s probably more relevant.
I mean even if you think that could be less three four five years Michael we’ve seized capitalization on a variety of projects and brought them back into operating load where all the carry costs go to the P&amp;L.
We talked a little bit about China as an example today.
One of the projects will likely seize capitalization shortly which will absorb the carry costs to the P&amp;L and part of the building will be leased as well so not all of it will fall to the bottom.
And so there are small assets like that that will contribute a little bit to hit to FFO as the operating costs drop to the bottom line.
And maybe moving to the balance sheet for a moment I think you referenced in a couple of comments stress testing the model trying to put very I guess very conservative assumptions from a financing standpoint into the guidance range that you’ve put out and I think you talked about $200 million of other capital whether they be preferred as sales or ATM which I assume as carrying probably 7% to 8% cost in their model (inaudible) throughout the year and that’s going to pay down the line is that what’s embedded in the numbers currently? That is correct Michael.
And then in terms of unsecured debt issuance I want to make sure I heard you correctly.
Did you say you moved that to the end of next year or end of this year? We pushed it out from 2011 on our debut bond offering Michael to the back half of ‘12.
So shouldn’t that be massively accretive relative to where people’s mind set and if you go back to the last quarter when you talked about the bond issuance and there’s two pieces happening right? You issued the bonds at a higher rate you’re weighted average cost that goes up so when you capitalized that you effectively have higher capital interest from a GAAP perspective even though it’s cash dilutive.
But that was a $0.13 drag on an FFO basis.
Are you effectively saying now even though estimates have come down and that sort of what came down over the last quarter’s call was estimates were high given the fact that the unsecured bonds issuance wasn’t in there that effectively we should now go back up for that $0.13? It is – pushing back the bond assumption is a positive or accretive adjustment to FFO.
The impact if you were to move this up to one-one of the year if I recall correctly it’s not quite $0.13 Michael.
May we go to the math offline but I believe it’s closer to something like – and I oh I guess what I should be saying the difference between your analysis at $0.13 and I think our underlying assumption is that the latest – there’s another assumptions that goes with a bond offering in our model.
And that is the retirement of our 2012 term loans.
So those two go hand-in-hand.
The net impact of those two assumptions moving.
I think net out a few pennies a quarter maybe $0.03 $0.035.
Okay.
So I guess the term loan that you’re going against your term loan that LIBOR 150 over for five years.
That one is effectively going to pay down your line so that’s a neutral event for your guidance right? Relatively yeah.
Because it’s effectively the same rate? The line is a little more expensive but ultimately Michael one of two things will occur with the $500 million new term loan.
Initially we’ll retire the line balance outstanding and reduce it.
That pricing is about 2.3% over one month (inaudible) so there is a benefit there.
Ultimately it will either take out 250 term loan or bonds will take out the 250 term loan.
But short-term you’ll get roughly 80 basis point benefit.
Okay.
I have this last question before I leave the floor.
The 120 that you’re talking about for fourth quarter of next year that still going to – I mean if you end up issuing the bonds to that point that 120 is going to come down right? I mean that’s still going to have dilution from refinancing and doing your debut bond offering.
I’m sorry if I wasn’t clear.
Guidance includes the bond secured bond offering assumption.
For the full fourth quarter of 2012? Correct.
So when you look at the street right now which is at $1.21 for the fourth quarter the lower guidance effectively in your guys’ eyes is more a reflection of the development and redevelopments not contributing until later in the year versus earlier in the year in which case the run rate into 2013 should state relatively the same and you should feel relatively comfortable where the street is at for 2013.
Yeah by and large.
And I think just broadly speaking the different mix of capital until we get to the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And for the supplemental I think one of the things that would help going forward to bridge this gap is on page 46 and 47 is they actually have the (inaudible) invested today your gross potential investment targeted yield.
In that way and also a little bit more clarity on as to when in the year those projects are coming online so that going forward there won’t be this disconnect between what the street is thinking and what you guys are thinking in terms of development and redevelopment given that it’s such a substantial part of your business and I’ll get off soapbox.
Yup.
No we agree.
We agree.
I think it would be incredibly helpful.
And our next question will come from Philip Martin of Morningstar.
Good afternoon.
Hey there.
I think my model is done.
But thanks that was a very good insight actually on the model and a lot of information you provided in your opening remarks Dean was helpful.
Joe would you characterize your larger high quality tenant base as compared to what’s called the less established tenants to be less concerned with a potential of 7.9% NIH budget cut? And then your opinion kind of potential reduction in the budget drive increased M&amp;A or do you feel venture capital would still that potential shortfall or void? Yeah.
That’s a good question then maybe I just pulled out the top 20 in some of the – at the risk of elongating this call a little bit.
Let me just run through.
I think the answer is we don’t have real exposure in a real meaningful sense.
I mean Novartis is one Lilly is two Roche is three FibroGen just moved to four.
They are very well financed private company with a potential huge blockbuster drug that is a new motive administration.
Illumina is number five.
Amanda’s talked about that.
The government is six.
And those are long term non-cancellable leases other than one lease which comes to an end next year.
Bristol-Myers Glaxo MIT.
Even if the NIH budget is cut MIT will still dominated with very high quality opportunities.
NYU-Neuroscience Research Institute.
It’s been fully endowed by a huge hedge – a billionaire of hedge fund so there’s no exposure.
Alnylam’s a public biotech company.
Gilead Amylin all – and I think really are not NIH based.
Pfizer 14 Theravance 15.
16 would be the one that Scripps Research they garner a lot of NIH money.
Remember I said it’s (inaudible) grants though it’s something happened in fiscal 2013 what they have today would be fine through a number of years but then new grant starting in ‘13 and beyond might impact them so they potentially downstream.
Quest Diagnostics 17 now.
Forrester is 18.
They’re moving out so they’re out of there.
Infinity is a public biotech company not subject and The Regents of the University California.
I would say these are – the bulk of these are like clinical and non-NIH grant type uses that we have.
I’d say out of the top 20 probably the only one that would have real exposure would be beyond Illumina that you’ve seen.
Although Illumina’s competitors have far less exposure life cryogen and my guess is that Illumina will work itself in to that position where it has I think today amounted 25% NIH exposure or something.
It’s about a third of the revenue.
Okay.
My guess is they’re going to work that down so they’re going to have a lot less like the others do but I would say scripts would be the only one.
Do you find that the budget cuts and the potential budget cuts I should say are delaying any lease decisions on the parts of your existing tenant base new potential tenants et cetera or are they really or are they not? Yeah in our world in each of the kind of critical submarkets we’re in they’re not that we can sell.
I think the one area that could be would be long with medical center which the multiple Harvard hospitals there garner a large amount of NIH budget.
So that could be one area but in the rest of our markets that we know of we have very few tenants that really garner huge amounts that are dependent on leasing facilities as it relates to NIH budget cuts.
And remember the 2012 budget should be at least – if it’s down it’s only going to be down $190 million.
That much.
Yeah.
And so the 2013 in my guess is even if this automatic budget cut happens because these guys can agree by November 22nd my guess is that government – I mean Obama has been on this soap box and a lot of people have they’re going to probably find a way to restore that because of the need for leadership in this area for the country.
So if not a controversial issue it just happens to get caught up in this budget debacle.
Yes.
And that’s what I’m confronted with when we talk to investors is that...
Yeah.
It’s more confusion than anything when you understand the real fundamentals.
There’s probably a better story than what’s being perceived out there.
The last question I have with respect to leasing trends does the Alexandria portfolios – does the larger and higher quality tenant-based limit rental rate growth a bit for the company over the next call it 12 to 24 months.
I mean obviously the potential offset is a higher quality tenant which is certainly important in this environment – very important in this environment where there’s global and economic uncertainty but is it somewhat limiting your rental rate growth because the percentage or proportion of smaller tenants isn’t there? I just want to get some insight into that.
I think actually it kind of works the opposite way to the extent that a tenant has a pricing power they’re more likely to be stringent on rental rate increases.
Give you an example both ourselves and Boston Properties are building state-of-the-art facilities for Biogen Idec in Cambridge.
They’re really tough.
They had two companies not so much competing but they were doing similar projects and so they have some pricing power.
They could go – they could have stayed where they are or done some other things.
So they kind of work both parties against each other in a sense and so where you’ve got the bigger safe and the bigger pricing power sometimes you have a tougher time negotiating more upside on the annual steps but I think where you’ve got a multi-tenant building and you’ve got floor users or smaller space is actually much easier to achieve that three or three plus.
I don’t know.
Steve you can comment what’s in your market.
Yeah.
I think the tenants really.
And we alluded to this with the institutional tenants in Mission Bay I mean they need to be next to UCSF they need to be next to MIT they want to be on the Torrey Pines bluff they want to be in the South Lake Union.
So to the extent you’ve got relatively healthier tight markets even though there’s a large credit tenant that we try to exert their credit worthiness for lower lease rates their desire to be there versus the market that they had sub-leased space under lease rates.
They’re going to choose the location versus the economic.
So I think that really provides a nice floor and as Joel said maybe we don’t actually have higher annual steps but we end up with longer lease rates as well so you’ve got the security of a long-term lease rate then the obvious gap benefit of that annual increase.
Okay.
So that’s really a half to – I mean it’s a great location and a half too situation for these tenants large and/or small so okay I appreciated.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
And our next question will come from John Stewart of Green Street Advisors.
Thanks.
I’ll try to be quick.
Joel I hope you could give us a bit of perspective on Steve’s new role.
It sounds like maybe you’re doing a bit more travel to China than previously.
But otherwise I wanted to get some perspective on what his responsibilities are going to be going forward and he’s going to be back filling what he had been doing in San Francisco.
And then lastly if you could just give us some comment in terms of how we should think about this in the context of longer term succession planning.
Yes.
So he didn’t get the recruiting letter yet.
Yes Steve initially – while we continue to manage the bay area and over time we will look to have a new market leader there so that’s something we have to work on during the coming quarters.
And much as Jim’s role was and Jim and Steve are not related for reference.
Really the first initial focus is really detailed effort in each of our regions because we spent a lot of time in each of the regions.
We’re a very hands-on management team.
I think that’s why we’ve been able to I think execute on developments re-development leasing things like that and keep a very stable workforce.
So I think that’s and that’s a big part of what Jim did and I think you’ll see initially that’s where Steve’s effort will be.
I think it’s pretty clear Steve’s been with the company more than a decade.
The board is very comfortable with him obviously.
I am too and so we view Steve as a very important person on a go forward basis.
But I think what distinguishes Alexandria from most other companies maybe there’s a few at the very large end that have pretty large management teams.
But I think in the mid-cap and certainly for others I think we have a senior management team maybe a 12 to 15 people virtually all of whom who’ve been with the company more than a decade which is pretty unusual who operate very – operate in a – both in an independent but in a real effective reporting fashion and I think that’s very unusual to have that depth and quality of management.
And there’s any number of people who could step up and take on much more heavy lifting and so we’re very fortunate and blessed I think with that.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thank you.
And one last one just coming back to the dispositions and not at all focused on 2012 guidance.
But just a little bit of color please.
I presume that what you’re talking about aside from maybe a couple of assets in the Boston Suburbs I would presume we’re talking about North Carolina and Suburban New Jersey or Philadelphia.
And so if you could comment just qualitatively in terms of what might be non-core and proudly speaking in terms of cap rates you might execute out.
Thank you.
I think that’s a question that is something that I think we’re not prepared to make public at this point.
I think it would imprudent to do so.
So the best I would say is stay tuned and we clearly have a sizeable effort going on to look at the ability to monetize Suburban assets and move that capital into our urban CBD.
I mean we have this groundbreaking (inaudible) in Cambridge we have 1.7 million square feet there.
I think more Sacramento on the call today and Boston Property has mentioned that maybe of all the markets CBU Cambridge is maybe the top.
We do too.
So it’s (inaudible) us to use our capital which is both precious and top these days to get in the sense of the general markets to move them into those kinds of irreplaceable locations.
So I think you’ll see us to do that but let me not comment on that for a whole variety of reasons.
Fair enough how about just the cap rate the cap rates? Well I think you also – yeah I don’t think you can assume anything.
I think we’re looking at a variety of structures.
And so let me beg of by saying stay tuned and hopefully for the next quarter or so we’ll be able to elucidate that in a more detailed fashion.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
Thanks John.
And our next question will come from Dave Rodgers of RBC Capital Markets.
Yeah Dean real quick on the financials that you talked about for next year.
Did you give a development start number that’s embedded in your guidance for ‘12 and or a capitalized interest number for 2012 relative to ‘11? Not on the developments starts side but we do have a – let me think.
In Cambridge we have Biogen Building that was going to be breaking ground here shortly so that development will be added into ground up developments.
And then I mentioned in NOI growth there is two potential developments one of which is executed and they aggregate somewhere around 140 000 square feet in total but two separate projects with credit for the spread of tenants behind it.
As it relates to cap interest I provided guidance in the $54 million to $60 million range for ‘12.
Okay thank you.
And I guess Joel just on the asset sales again sorry to kind of belabor the point.
But I guess just to get a better sense how would you rank order your preference for selling assets or other capital initiative next year? Obviously cost is one issue but also moving the portfolio is another.
So I mean does that rank at the top of that list and how would you view that? In the sense of ranking against what else? I guess you got preferred as an option common equity...
Yeah...
...deleveraging initiative? Yeah fair enough.
I’d say it ranks at the top.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes thank you.
And our last question will come from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Hi guys it’s Gabe (ph) I’m only here with Ross.
Just a real quick one sorry if I missed this.
But did you guys give a yield on the Biogen development that kindle? We did not but I think you can assume that I think on a caller two ago we basically said we’re in the mid to high-seven and that’s kind of where it is.
So if we were to turn around and build that building and sell it we think although that wouldn’t necessarily be our favorite kind of development yield we think we could achieve a six or sub-six on that asset so there is a decent spread there.
All right.
Thank you.
But don’t interpret that as our standard development yield I think on new construction generally.
Hey Joel it’s Ross I might have missed this earlier but with respect to the Alexandria Center realistically are we talking about that being still years away or is there a possibility that a big fish could come in 2012 and we can see an announcement there sooner rather than later.
Oh you mean in New York? No I’m talking sorry in Trenton Square on the big redevelopment project...
Oh I’m sorry okay the big one well as maybe has been said I think on the Boston Property’s call there is at least one and maybe big tech users that are looking for sizeable space there is a big pharma user that’s looking for sizeable space.
There are number of big players so the answer would be we certainly don’t have that in our 2012 go-forward game plan but something had emerge that would be sizeable as opposed to people looking for a floor or two.
And this is maybe one of the only places they could go that would make sense so I would say we’re working on those things but we have nothing that’s definitive at this point.
Do you have all your required zoning approval at this point? Yeah.
I mean we have – virtually we’re working on the final two building design.
We’re working infrastructure so we can move very quickly.
Okay.
So instead you are working with the (inaudible) at this point? Yeah everything has been – we’re way beyond that.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yes.
And at this time I would turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
Okay.
Well sorry we ran a little over today or a lot over today.
Thanks for the very very good questions and we appreciate your time and attention.
Thanks again.
That does conclude today’s teleconference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Results Conference Call.
My name is Tisha and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Rhonda Chiger.
Please go proceed.
Good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and good afternoon everybody.
Happy New Year and thank you for joining us today for the fourth quarter and 2011 year end call.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga and Krupal Raval.
We hope that you like the new format and content of our press release and supplement.
Hopefully it will be very informative as well as a more user-friendly and simpler to follow document.
As we look forward to 2012 it appears promising as the Dow reached 12 878 yesterday at the close the highest since pre-Lehman in May 2008.
2012 will be an important year for Alexandria.
We will begin the transition of our balance sheet from the bank debt – the long-term unsecured bank debt – I’m sorry long-term unsecured bond debt having received our investment grade ratings in mid-2011 from Moody’s and S&amp;P.
And as many of you remember the keys to the ratings by the two agencies were the size and leadership vary within our life science sector and our markets a well diversified asset base by geography and tenant modest leverage and the size and quality of our unencumbered asset pool our ability to manage liquidity our ability to handle higher funding costs and the health of our operations and leasing all of which I think have proved true in this reporting period.
We will continue our expansion domination of our key urban and CBD adjacency cluster markets with our unique and important first-in-class and first mover advantage.
And I think this was clearly demonstrated by the breadth and depth of our fourth quarter of 2011 and 2011 full year leasing success.
We look forward to on-boarding significant cash flows later in 2012 as we move strategic non-income producing assets to cash flowing operating assets.
From fourth quarter 2010 to fourth quarter 2011 we increased the – the board increased the dividend approximately 40%.
It’s likely the board will continue that approach of sharing increasing cash flows with our shareholders.
As we proceed through 2012 it appears the fundamental drivers are in place to enable the continued expansion of the life science industry in our key cluster markets and for us to take advantage of that and certainly for Alexandria to continue to dominate and capture the plum requirements which we’ve done in San Diego Greater Boston and South San Francisco this past year.
We have more requirements today in some of our key cluster markets than we can actually handle however as we reduce our non-income producing assets this will enable us to pursue more of these key opportunities.
We hope investors focus on the fundamentals of ARE as a very high quality innovative company with uniquely built-in platform for growth in net operating income earnings are best-in-class assets in irreplaceable locations with solid tenant demand for our unique lab space.
For 2011 again we are very pleased and proud to report the highest leasing quarter and year in the history of the company.
And again it confirms I think the meaning and the impact of our leading franchise in the life science industry.
For the fourth quarter we leased over 1.1 million square feet and for the year about 3.4 million square feet and almost 1 million square feet out of development and redevelopment.
We have a solid flow of requirements.
This past year the three biggest leases for development and redevelopment space were two in San Diego and one in Cambridge of the 650 000 square feet of renewals and re-lease space San Diego where we clearly dominate contribute about 50% and Greater Boston about 23%.
For the 492 000 square feet of redevelopment and development space San Diego contributed 51% and 21% for Greater Boston.
Some of the I think most notable leasing accomplishments certainly during the last quarter was the leasing of our new 43 000 square foot University Town Center Drive property.
Our – the initiation the leasing and the initiation of our build-to-suit for Biogen Idec in East Cambridge are 100% pre-leasing of small build-to-suit for a top pharma which we were really compelled to do in Canada.
And the lease-up of from 43% to 91% of our flagship Campus Pointe asset in UTC San Diego with an existing credit tenant in another market but now one of our dominant tenants in San Diego is Celgene.
We like to address the fundamentals in three of our key life science cluster markets and our expectations for 2012.
Going to San Francisco Mission Bay remains tight with Nektar and Bayer exercising their options for a total of 30 000 square feet at our 455 Mission Bay property.
Bayer’s expansion was especially noteworthy as it again marks an overwhelming trend for big pharma to establish tight networks and close physical proximity to leading intellectual centers.
As you remember they exited the East Bay to move to Mission – their R&amp;D to Mission Bay.
Mission Bay life science rates remain strong in the low 40s with about $125 square foot of generic infrastructure allowance over a shell and tenants contributing significant capital to complete their mission critical fit-ups.
2012 lease rollers are minimal with about – almost about 13 000 square feet of space and we’re in discussions for 9 000 about.
Regarding our flagship 499 Illinois project we’re engaged with some serious discussions and negotiations with a variety of technology companies and life science institutions both seeking large blocks of space.
I’m hopeful we’ll be able to beat both the time and the returns of our acquisition pro forma.
South San Francisco is growing a little bit stronger incrementally.
We’ve captured the majority of the market demand in the fourth quarter including in a lawn expansion at the Gateway project.
And a new cleantech company is leasing a block of space at our East Jamie Court project.
We’re also engaged in negotiations with two – final negotiations with two tenants that will stabilize the West building of the East Jamie and early negotiations with an existing tenant to take another floor in the East building putting us on track to overall stabilize that building in the second half of 2012.
South San Francisco lease rates remain in the low 30s.
Our lease rollovers in the sub market are about 100 000 square feet and we are working on negotiations and discussions about 75% of that space.
The Stanford Palo Alto Mountain View market remains very tight and the overwhelming technology demand has really made that market – those markets pretty hot these days.
If we move to the Cambridge market Cambridge market has been relatively steady and stable all year.
Vacancy down to about 10% Class A.
Although Class A second-generation space is pretty scarce.
Our major recent deals as you may know were Pfizer committing to MIT we had – we couldn’t accommodate their size.
We didn’t have the space available and we did sign an important requirement for Mass General a 15-year lease 75 000 square feet 400 Tech Square and hopefully we are on our way to stabilizing that building before we deliver it.
Some other significant leases have been signed and tech demand in that market again strong.
Right now we’re tracking over 2.4 million square feet of demand both in the lab and in the office sector in Cambridge.
Cambridge office market low 40s to mid 50s on a gross basis East Cambridge Class A mid 50s to mid 60s and East Cambridge Class B and C low 40s to high 40s so – and the suburbs kind of in the low 20s to mid 30s.
So that market stays healthy and the continuing flight to the core cluster markets with Cambridge being benefited certainly continues with the larger tenants.
And then finally in San Diego as we indicated Celgene more than doubled in size their San Diego footprint and we successfully leased 172 000 square feet to them at Campus Pointe.
At the end of 2011 Alexandria was responsible for well over half of San Diego’s annual lab space leasing activity.
If we look at Torrey Pines today our almost 0.75 million square feet we’ve got a vacancy rate of 10% and headed down rental rates are in the mid to high 30%s; in the University Town Center our 1.3 million square feet we’ve got a vacancy rate of about 3.4% and again a very strong and solid market.
So with that kind of color on a little bit of a preview of 2012 and a little bit of hindsight review of 2011 let me turn it over to Dean to give you pretty detailed color on the quarter as well.
Thanks Joel.
Let me just open up with results.
FFO per share diluted was reported at $1.10 for the fourth quarter and overall in line with our expectations.
Earnings per share diluted was $0.44.
Total revenues were up $14 million over the fourth quarter of 2010 and almost $88 million over 2010.
NOI for the fourth quarter was $101.8 million.
It was up about $7.3 million over the fourth quarter of 2010 and about $0.01 over the third quarter of 2011 and really was reflected of the expected decline in NOI related to the completed rollover and start of the full redevelopment of two assets 1551 Eastlake in Seattle and 400 Technology Square in Cambridge.
Looking forward into the first quarter of 2012 NOI is expected to be flat when compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 for the following reasons.
Overall we’re expecting 100 basis point to 150 basis point decline in overall occupancy by March 31 primarily driven by occupancy dips in South San Francisco Boston and Suburban Washington D.C.
Occupancy in South San Francisco and Boston are expected to recover by 3Q with occupancy gains in Maryland requiring a little bit more time.
Overall we anticipate our total occupancy by December 31 2012 to be in the range of 94% to 95%.
In summary NOI is expected to be flat from 4Q into 1Q up slightly into the second quarter and into the third quarter and up significantly in the fourth quarter of 2012 as we’ve expected.
G&amp;A was about $10.6 million and above our expectations for the fourth quarter.
The higher G&amp;A was really related to professional fees and consulting some of which related to training for new systems placed into service related to paperless invoice processing software GO and property management and ADP payroll related software implementations.
We also had a small amount of dead deal costs in the quarter some domestic and some international.
Moving to the balance sheet briefly with some comments on our overall balance sheet strategy and capital strategy.
Starting with bank debt over the next few years we remain focused on the transition from variable rate medium term bank debt to longer term fixed rate unsecured bonds.
However long term some bank debt will be a component of our capital structure primarily consisting of our unsecured line of credit for liquidity and flexibility and bank term loans when appropriate.
Variable rate debt from our unsecured line of credit will be used to fund construction activity short-term and ultimately financed with longer term capital.
Construction loans may be utilized from time to time.
And in the interim like we did in December interest rate hedge agreements will be used to mitigate interest rate risk.
Near and medium term we will transition variable rate bank debt to fixed rate debt.
A small amount of secured debt will always be part of our long-term capital structure.
Pricing today remains very attractive and will remain part of our sources of capital when appropriate.
With our investment grade ratings we can tap an important new source of longer term fixed rate capital and accordingly we expect to be a periodic issuer of unsecured notes.
Perpetual preferred stock will remain a key component of our long-term capital structure.
However we also believe that our 8.375% Series E preferred stock can ultimately be refinanced with lower cost long-term capital.
JV capital has not been a significant component of our capital structure but remains a real opportunity for the right transaction.
However we do not expect this to become a significant component of our capital structure.
Asset dispositions will continue to provide capital for reinvestment.
Common equity whether traditional follow-on or through an ATM type program will be considered as necessary to balance our use of incremental capital over time.
We remain committed to lower leverage.
Our debt-to-EBITDA is projected to be slightly plus or minus seven times for the fourth quarter of 2012.
This leverage metric will benefit from the significant amount of NOI and EBITDA contribution beginning in the third quarter of 2012 and ramping up significantly in the fourth quarter from the delivery of our significantly leased redevelopment and development projects.
We expect over time to improve debt-to-EBITDA to a target of 6.5 times.
Our goal is to maintain greater than 50% availability under our $1.5 billion unsecured line of credit.
Over the long term we expect our outstanding balance under our line of credit to move closer toward 25% or less similar to most investment grade rates.
Our goal is also to maintain a laddered maturity profile.
Our current debt maturities over the next four years are very manageable.
Additionally our goal is to lower non-income producing assets to 15% or less of our gross investment in real estate.
Our current active development and redevelopment projects aggregate about 7% of our gross investment in real estate.
And the completion and delivery of these projects again a significant amount of which is scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter will transition these into income-producing assets.
Briefly let me comment on the bond market.
As we all know 2012 to-date has shown several positive trends in the investment grade unsecured bond market.
The fed recently announced their commitment to low interest rates into 2014.
The European headlines have not spooked the market as frequently as the second half of 2011.
And Treasuries has rallied and dropped meaningfully.
REIT bond spreads have also tightened meaningfully.
As a result a few REITs had very successful bond deals this year.
We remain optimistic with recent market trends and would like our bond offering to occur sooner than later.
We are also cautious that the market is still subject to volatility from the European crisis and other major headline news.
Our guidance for FFO per share and EPS does not include a bond offering since it’s difficult to predict the timing and pricing for a debut issuer.
All indications support a meaningful tightening of pricing for ARE but ultimately pricing will be determined based on market conditions when the event occurs.
In December we executed interest rate swaps lowering our unhedged variable rate debt from 51% as of 9/30 to 21%.
Our goal was to reduce our exposure to interest rate risk in the interim while also leaving an appropriate amount of unhedged variable rate debt in our projections in order to allow for the transition of bank debt to longer term fixed rate debt.
The $1 billion of additional swaps in effect for 2012 fixed one month LIBOR at approximately 48 basis points to 49 basis points.
When combined with the existing $450 million of swaps in effect the aggregate $1.45 billion of notional amount of swaps in effect for 2012 fixed one month LIBOR at 1.5% through September 30 at which point certain swap contracts terminate.
Going forward our unhedged variable rate debt may hover around 20% and occasionally approaching the high 20% range.
This will provide us flexibility to transition from variable rate bank debt to longer term fixed rate debt.
Subsequent to December in January we retired about $84 million of our 3.7% convertible notes leaving us with approximately $1 million outstanding today.
Moving next to our value-added opportunities I’m sure you’ve noted that our revised supplemental presents value-added development and redevelopment projects and provides significant detail on key projects making up the majority of our projected construction spend for 2012.
As shown in our supplemental approximately 80% of our 2012 projected redevelopment and development construction cost is related to certain developments and certain urban redevelopment projects with an estimated stabilized yield of approximately 7.5% on a cash basis and 8.2% on a GAAP basis.
The remaining 20% is related to suburban and other redevelopment projects and projects in this category will generate stabilized yields ranging up to 8% on a cash basis.
Our total estimate of construction cost to complete related to our construction projects increased about $15 million since our Investor Day in December 7.
We also updated the timing of certain payments between 2012 and thereafter resulting in a shift of approximately $25 million of anticipated cost from thereafter into 2012.
Additionally the amounts presented at Investor Day separately presented indirect project costs like capped interest from our estimates of construction cost to complete.
In our supplemental package we added these indirect costs to our estimate of total construction cost to complete.
And keep in mind this update only impacted our projected spend in aggregate.
In putting the numbers together our estimates of stabilized yields for active redevelopment and development projects included indirect project cost and have not changed since our Investor Day presentation.
Lastly let me cover our guidance for 2012.
We updated FFO per share diluted to $4.50 and $4.54 no change since our previous guidance.
Earnings per share diluted was updated to $1.73 to $1.77.
Our guidance included the following assumptions all of which are highlighted on page 16.
Same property NOI performance cash is expected to be up 3% to 5%; GAAP up 0% to 2%.
Rental rate steps on lease renewals and re-leasing of space cash slightly negative to slightly positive; GAAP up 0 – up to 5%.
Straight-line rents are averaging $6.5 million per quarter with amounts each quarter declining from the $9.6 million run rate in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The largest single property decline in straight-line rent from fourth quarter to the first quarter is related to the East Tower in New York.
And that property generates about $1.2 million decline in straight-line rent obviously with a corresponding increase in cash rents really related to the burn-off of free rent there on that project.
FAS 141 amortization is projected to be about $800 000 per quarter.
G&amp;A expenses overall for 2012 compared to 2011 will be up about 5% to 8%.
Capped interest is expected to be in a range between $54 million and $60 million and is dependent on timing of construction activities.
And interest expense net of capped interest will range between $68 million and $75 million.
Again due to the significant amount of rentable square feet under redevelopment and development that is leased – projected to be leased placed in service and contributing to NOI and EBITDA by the fourth quarter of 2012 we have also provided a range of guidance for certain items for the fourth quarter.
Our guidance is as follows: NOI in the range of $111 million to $113 million up from the $101.8 million as of the fourth quarter; G&amp;A in the range of $10 million to $11 million; net interest cost in the range of $20.1 million to $23.1 million; aggregate FFO in the range of $71.7 million to $74.1 million; and an FFO per share diluted in the range of $1.16 to $1.20.
In closing I just want to clearly remind everybody that our projected NOI is flat into the first quarter of 2012 a nominal increase into the second quarter and then into the third quarter as well with most of the increase in NOI occurring in the fourth quarter of 2012.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Joel.
Thanks Dean.
And operator we’ll be happy to open up for Q&amp;A.
Sure no problem.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Sheila McGrath from KBW.
Please proceed.
Yes good afternoon.
Joel you did give a lot of detail on the markets but I was wondering if you could characterize the demand picture how you see it now versus a year ago and which markets you would categorize as strongest and which weakest.
Yeah Sheila will be happy to try to do that.
So I think just kind of going around the country quickly in Seattle and I – boy a year ago is a little hard to remember but I think the demand there has been I think quiet it’s been selective more focused on the institutional side and I think it has been a pretty busy time for tech there with Amazon leading the way.
I would indicate that market is – they’ve held rental rates but I would say demand is kind of average.
In the San Francisco Bay Area again a little hard to remember exactly a year ago but I think Mission Bay we’re seeing more on the tech demand and institutional demand.
At this point South San Francisco we’re seeing more on the biotech demand.
I think we’ve been pleased that although that market has been slower and more lethargic because of Roche’s really re-evaluation of the integration of Genentech so previously Genentech was really growing like crazy Roche has really rationalized that.
They’ve moved a lot of people into their campus in South San Francisco but we haven’t seen any real new requirements from them.
But we’re seeing activity in biotech and cleantech and we’ve managed to capture most of those requirements.
The Palo Alto area we’re full.
And Mountain View has been strong heavily in the tech area and also a number of life science.
Down in San Diego I think we’ve indicated that market has really come back pretty dramatically over the last 12 months not only due to the market itself but I think the integration of the Veralliance team has really benefited us greatly and they’ve executed in a marvelous fashion.
We’re seeing requirements down there institutionally biotech cleantech product and service companies not so much pharma and that market remains very strong for us.
Cambridge has been I think continually followed all year.
No dramatic change.
As I said we’re tracking some pretty big tech and life science demands today and so that market has held well.
New York we’re full up there.
We’re literally 100% occupied and talking to a number of folks for a potential West Tower kick-off as we look into the future not sure what the timing of that might be at this point but we’re having some very serious discussions.
I’d say Suburban D.C.
that market has been challenging.
I think with the cutback in the NIA or cut back I should say in the overall budget.
NIH is flat for the year and that’s good.
There’s no cut for this year.
We still see less requirements obviously out of the government side.
We just see a number of tenants really looking at current and future requirements but nothing new dramatic entering that particular market.
And then I think Research Triangle Park we’re seeing a number of small tenants nothing dramatic there.
So I’d say that market remains quiet but promising on the institutional side.
So if that’s helpful that’s kind of a quick (inaudible).
Yeah that’s great.
One other question for Dean I guess.
Same-store expenses in the quarter were pretty high and I was just wondering if you could give us more detail on what was driving that and your outlook for 2012? Well OpEx I think has been up primarily from utilities and some winter-related matters whether it was the storm on the East Coast or snow removal matters.
Most of those costs because of our triple net nature of our portfolio are passed through to our tenants so it’s recovered.
Although OpEx may highlight in the same-store pool as fairly meaningful increase on year-over-year those costs are borne by the tenants substantially.
And that would be true for 2012.
Hard to predict how summer or winter weather patterns impact utility cost but again the same thing would occur.
Any increase or decrease in those operating expenses are absorbed by our tenants.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Sheila.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Dean maybe just starting with the occupancy and sort of the outline that you gave you mentioned the decline going into the start of the year.
Can you talk about the pickup? I guess should we assume that it recovers evenly throughout the year or do you think this will be much more back-end weighted as you pick up occupancy? I think you’ll see some occupancy improvement in those three submarkets going into the second quarter and that’s really between South San Francisco and Boston.
Both of those markets I think being substantially recovered as we get into the third quarter.
Maryland just given the dynamic in the Maryland market being much quieter market than Cambridge as an example.
I think that might take a little bit more time.
But again by the end of the year overall we expect to be relatively in the range of where we are again in the 94% to 95% range.
Yeah.
And part of that’s driven Jay by – we’ve got two significant roles in the Maryland market coming up in the second quarter one tenant that’s exiting and another tenant that we’re still unsure of and then we’ve have got one roll in South San Francisco we’re working on.
So there are a number of rolls that have figured into how Dean has kind of given that guidance and kind of the flow from early in the year to late in the year.
But we’re pretty confident outside of the Maryland market that we will be able to either re-lease or backfill space pretty successfully.
We certainly have done it over the past few years.
Yeah.
And I think in my – our last call comments last quarter also highlighted that in Boston we have temporary downtime on some space that rolled and was re-leased.
So it is subject to a lease today and that will be delivered in September I believe and it’s about 25 000 square feet.
Okay.
And maybe just following on that in terms of your outlook for CapEx can you talk about tenant improvement and leasing costs for the year? I mean clearly the rate for 2011 increased versus 2010 but help put into perspective I guess the fourth quarter run rate? Yeah I think if you look – I think you are referring to generally speaking page 23 of our supplemental which highlights our leasing activity for the year.
And on the renewals we’re averaging just under $6 a foot both on TIs and leasing commissions and then closer to $13 on previously vacant space whether that was inclusive of redevelopment or development.
I would generally expect the dollars to remain in the range.
And I think in our 10-K we gave a pretty good summary of CapEx in TIs leasing cost related to the renewals and re-leasing the space and they generally over five-year average stay within a fairly narrow fairly small bandwidth.
I don’t expect 2012 to be meaningfully different from our historical averages.
Okay.
And maybe just to dig a bit deeper on 499 Illinois you mentioned the activity and I guess the tech tenants there do you expect this to be something you could announce in the first half of the year I guess in our tenants looking at the full space or is this just a portion of the space? The answer to the first question is that would be our hope.
We don’t know for sure in this our initial tenant would be a three floor tenant.
And then potentially a follow-on would take up the rest of the buildings.
So we’re potentially looking at two tenants.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah thanks J.
Your next question comes from the line of James Feldman from Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about what you’ve seen recently in terms of tech demand versus life sciences demand and how you guys are thinking about in your main markets maybe tipping the portfolio exposure more towards tech given the demand prospects for that sector? And how you guys are just kind of thinking about it internally? Yeah.
That’s actually a pretty great question.
I think that we are a life science niche focused REIT obviously.
So we’re not trying to change what we are and who we are.
But I think as you have significant projects in a number of markets for example the Binney Street development we are looking at – I’m just looking right now there outside of lab there is over 1 million square feet of today demand for tech.
So for us to look at in learning our return hurdles how we might lease to a tech user if there is 1.1 million square feet of demand that’s real and we are looking at that how that might work from a rental rate that would obviously be somewhat lower than the lab rate but at a tenant improvement allowance – infrastructure allowance that would be considerably less versus a lab tenant.
I think we have to just look at it on a case-by-case basis.
We have no real desire to change the tenant base in the portfolio.
I think as we look at 499 Illinois we are mindful that with sales force taking down 2.1 million square feet there that has created a new kind of hotbed of tech tenant interest south of market is pretty much on fire as you know certainly from other calls I’m sure.
So we just have to pay attention.
Our goal is obviously to have a highest quality tenants with the strongest cash flow in place.
And if at any given point in time we’ve got a tenant that it makes sense then we are likely to consider that as opposed to just hold out for the right lab tenants.
But I don’t think you see any big fundamental strategic shift it really is a building-by-building basis.
We’re in a kind of a tech bubble of sorts I’m sure when the Facebook IPO comes to market it will be even be even more poignant.
But these are as you remember many years ago from the Internet boom we saw I remember when Speaker reported I think something like rates going from $1 or $2 to maybe as highest $10 or $12 bucks a foot and then a year or two later they collapse.
So we are mindful that that’s a pretty up and down market but we’ll take advantage of it selectively in the best way we know how.
Are you – I mean to your last point my understanding is the biggest difference now you’ve got companies that are cash flowing.
I mean do you really believe that we are getting close to a bubble in terms of the fundamentals and the economics of leases? Well I think from a valuation standpoint I kind of believe that.
We were talking this morning when you look at Facebook that maybe a 100 times earnings that probably when you compare that to Google or other companies that are out there Apple and so forth that have had stellar operating histories it seems to strike U.S.
being a little bit unusual but that’s kind of the further of the unknown.
But I think again our view is the tech is – the intersection of tech and pharma and bio is important because these are all core knowledge markets.
And I think we’ll remain in these markets and we’ll take advantage of that sector as best we can but we’re not focused on diversifying into the tech sector as a major strategic change.
And when you think about your most active tech markets I mean is there a material delta between the kind of yield you can have based on where tech rents are and the kind of build-out you would need to do versus biotech or life sciences? Yeah.
I mean I think it’s pretty fair to say that in Mission Bay and in Cambridge those numbers penciled pretty favorably.
We haven’t really been faced with it up in Seattle nor in San Diego nor in Maryland or New York or Research Triangle Park.
But I’d say in the Bay Area and in Cambridge those are compelling opportunities.
I remember when we did Google’s first campus we had a redevelopment a sale leaseback we did with FIOS-NOVA that ultimately got bought but we bought their campus.
Google came in and paid us this is back in 1997 1998 kind of an obscene amount because they wanted that campus in Mountain View that was our first foothold.
They ended up getting all of the infrastructure and it turned out to be great deal for them and for us.
So again we just have to be opportunistic and play our cards the best we can but we’re not focused on creating a tech sector portfolio.
Okay thanks.
And then just for Dean.
I’m curious what – I noticed there was an increase in the straight-line rent assumption in the 2012 guidance but the FFO outlook is flat from the prior guidance.
I’m just curious what that was? And I apologize if you already said it.
It was – Jamie I think you’re picking up on a change from $6 million to $6.5 million.
It was really rounding more than anything.
Nothing really drove the difference significantly.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Yep.
Thank you Jamie.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Martin from Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Hi there.
I wanted to just talk a little bit about leasing terms.
Has there been any meaningful changes in leasing terms given what appears to be still a rather challenging environment out there? Are you seeing any meaningful changes? Well I think what is striking is in a number of the build-to-suits or redevelopments that we’re working on I think you’re seeing substantially long lease terms.
We’re able to achieve 10 15 and even 20 years these are from bigger well-capitalized entities whether they’d be big biotech obviously pharma or institutional.
I think some of the meat and potatoes leases that run from small-to-medium still are three five seven years.
So that hasn’t substantially changed based on the size of the space and based on the size of the entity.
Okay.
And you’re not giving more – I mean you’re negotiating leverages still more or less the same as it was before challenging times? Well I would say if we’re talking about 2006 2007 I would say no I think today is tougher.
And I think occasionally there are landlords in the market that are willing to do things that we normally wouldn’t consider rational so we have to be mindful of that.
And – but I would say although we had a spectacular quarter and really year from a leasing standpoint it’s never easy and it’s always challenging.
And I think boards of entities whether they be big pharma big biotech institutional boards smaller company boards are all mindful.
We’re in a – we are still in a tough macro environment and people aren’t making dumb decisions.
So I think we just have to be very very careful very competitive and focused.
But we have on occasion decided if a tenant wanted a certain opportunity or wanted a certain situation and we just felt it wasn’t worth it or our underwriting of the tenant that’s happened recently didn’t justify economics that a tenant wanted we just passed on the deal.
Okay okay.
Okay.
But I say it’s tougher today than it was in 2007 for sure.
Yeah.
I mean it dovetails a bit to that CapEx question or your CapEx went up a bit.
I know there were a tenant or two there from the dot-com era et cetera but just looking at trends generally and again just trying to...
Yeah.
It’s hard to know because again a lot of bigger tenants tend to want to put their own capital in but it varies actually lease – it truly varies lease-by-lease.
And lastly how has the confidence among your tenants changed if at all even in the last six months are you having any incremental discussions with tenants on more redevelopment or expansion opportunities? I mean obviously from what you said in your opening remarks it sounds like you have almost it’s a high-grade problem more internal growth opportunities than you can almost handle? Right.
I think the difference is and Phillip you know the sector well let me just break it down by groups.
In the pharma area you have specific requirements a specific requirement like Pfizer had coming out Groton or Pearl River and they’re looking for 250 000 square feet for that specific requirement.
So we see specific requirements in pharma generally moving a group or starting up a group into a clustered location.
So that’s a dynamic.
In the biotech sector when you have a clinical milestone or a regulatory approval made obviously the need to them take down whether it be additional space or shift what they may be doing becomes very milestone driven and so we’ve seen that.
And then in the smaller companies it really is just milestone driven as they begin to grow up and their funding is tied to milestones whether it would be on the private side or the public side we see those just develop again based on a milestone-related situation.
So I don’t think that’s fundamentally changed in the institutional side.
It usually is again a specific requirement funded by whether it would be bond funds or a particular gift.
A deal we signed in the New York happened to be endowed and so when the endowment was made for the long-term that requirement then got generated and we were able to secure it.
So I think those things fundamentally haven’t changed so much maybe the pharma situation has changed more over the past couple of years than anything else.
How about from universities? Certainly this economy has caused a lot of groups to rethink strategies.
Is Alexandria having – are you being approached by universities to help them manage a growth platform in biotech or life sciences or something similar? Yes unequivocally yes.
Okay okay.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
No thanks Phil.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Hi Ross.
Just a couple of questions here.
First in the supplement we appreciate all the new disclosure.
On page 33 on the development – redevelopment schedule you’ve got a sort of all the way to the bottom about $215 million worth of suburban and other redevelopment projects.
But there is notably no stabilized yield listed there.
Can you give us a sense of what’s the return on that capital? Yeah.
I think Dean suggested that’s about 20% of the total I believe of the redevelopment and returns range.
Generally I’d say mid-single digit to high-single digit.
That’s kind of where those are there a number of smaller projects but that’s kind of typical.
Was there a specific reason that that was left all stable? It’s just a lot of detail for a lot – we’re trying to kind of highlight the principle matters.
And then I think over time our view is we probably will be doing a lot less suburban work.
Okay.
The other question I have is on the page before.
And I know it’s minor but with respect to India and China the square footage from September down to December went down by 100 000 square feet.
So that’s question one is why the square feet change? And then number two just can you give us a sense of what the $41.3 million that will take you to expect to invest in 2012 is going towards? So the first question relates to just the transition of some of the basis into land.
So we completed what we needed to complete on that particular project.
Broadly the other question you asked about the $41 million to spend that’s really on construction related to laboratory facilities in India.
A little bit of the final interior improvements for China as well but the majority of those dollars are focused in India.
And if I think about the $148 million plus because there’s still a TBD there that you’re investing in those two countries.
What should we be thinking about for the returns on those because I don’t see those listed on page 3? Yeah I think I’ve said and I think over time as we get to some more critical mass we will try to be pretty detailed about this.
But I think our goal is in India.
China remains to be seen.
We don’t have a lot going on there at the moment in the sense we clearly aren’t doing any expansion.
We really are test running a project.
But I think in India our goal is to try to achieve 500 basis point return over what we would achieve in the U.S.
on a net after-tax basis.
And that’s I think what I’ve pretty much said and I think it turns out to be pretty true.
So that’s the anticipation on those current projects as well? More or less yes.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Yes.
Thanks Ross.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
It’s Michael Bilerman with Quentin.
Yeah I agree with Ross also on page 33 I think to present a whole picture of your billing one of completed investment having the complete total return at the end would be helpful.
I think Joel you said mid-single digits to high-single digits.
Do you just have the weighted average stabilize cash and GAAP yield so that we know on 20% of the pipeline most of the stuff is coming in late this year and early next year.
What yield we should be using for that capital? Yeah.
We can probably give that.
I don’t have that at hand but we can probably give that to you.
Okay.
And then thinking about sort of sources and uses of capital into – for this year and this is in reference to the guidance that you provided it’s on page...
16.
16 correct.
The thing about – I mean your uses are pretty identified and rigid and I recognize you have full availability of that’s remaining in the line of credit to fund that.
But if you think about this line item of $700 million for debt equity and joint venture capital obviously each of those has a different cost.
Each of those have different ramifications in terms of when it’s raised how it’s raised and so maybe just talk about how are you thinking about raising that $700 million both in terms of time but obviously debts very different than common equity very different than preferred equity and joint venture capital of obviously effectively sale of interest and assets which would be very different.
So what are you progressing down the road with to raise that money? Well a little bit will come off of our line but I think our hopes Michael as we mentioned in our prepared comments is that the bond market has shown some significant improvement in 2012 and we’re optimistic that we have the opportunity to have our bond issuance sooner than later and that would allow us to fill a large chunk of that $700 million of incremental capital.
So you would view the unsecured bond in terms of say $500 million as a debut as part of that $700 million if you were to execute it? Yeah I’m sorry.
Yeah I’m sorry that was confusing.
That would not be incremental to generate our total sources to – if you add – if you assumed it was $500 million it wouldn’t be additive to the $899 million resulting in roughly $1.4 billion of sources.
It would fill that $700 million requirement.
But if I just take it for one step further I mean one of the things you talked about at Investor Day was buying back the preferred – the $140 million of preferred which obviously you have a very high coupon on them as a way to offset the dilution from doing the bond deal.
So that would obviously chew up some capital.
But if you were to swap out $500 million out of $700 million you’re also not making a lot of goals towards your sort of reducing your floating rate.
I know you have hedges in place but eventually those will roll off.
Part of the bond issuance was to elongate the maturity schedule and fix it but you are spending $900 million of capital so wouldn’t you need to raise some form of equity for that? Actually to maybe clarify a little bit what will likely happen from a bond perspective because we do have a specific use to retire our 2012 term loan.
If a bond event was to occur before the maturity date of the bank term loan for $250 million we would likely concurrently retire that $250 million term loan and part of that has to do with the legal structuring of that transaction where we need to – I think it’s the only bank agreement that has provisions that were not modified to release our borrowers.
And so it was always contemplated that one of the key chunks of bank debt that would retired was the 2012 term loan.
So part of the answer to your question Michael is yes.
Some of the proceeds will be used to retire bank debt at a minimum the $250 million term loan.
The remainder will obviously depend on the size of the transaction and how much incremental capital we have.
But ultimately we are going to work on retiring bank debt replacing with longer-term fixed-rate debt over several years.
I think it’s difficult for us to – it was much more difficult for us to sit here and think about this 60 days ago probably relatively difficult for us to contemplate much on this 30 days ago.
The recent short trends in the last four weeks in the bond market for six weeks in the bond market have been pretty spectacular to say the least.
So we’re a little more optimistic.
We are set on that transition Michael.
This is just the first start of it.
Okay.
And I’d say the other thing that factors in and we’ve said this without being particularly specific and I mentioned in my comments we do are sitting on and you’ve been one of the proponents of this a fair amount of non-income producing assets and we clearly are focused pretty laser like on the movement of some of that to aid in our funding of both the retirement of variable rate debt as well as the reinvestment in development and redevelopment.
So that is likely to be an important part of this line item as well.
Great.
That’s helpful.
Just sticking on this page in terms of the guidance when you look at the fourth quarter you’d also provided guidance at Investor Day for the line items listed here and it would appear that NOI came out about $1.7 million higher but G&amp;A was commensurately $1.7 million higher than the mid points of the ranges of guidance that you gave then.
Can you just talk about what sort of drove the higher NOI? Was the timing of commencement higher? Was it something happened in the core? And also what happened with G&amp;A at the end of the year? Yeah I think he was – really the contributions came in stronger as a result of I think OpEx being inside of where we thought it was going to be because I don’t think there was much change in top line.
And we do have some OpEx numbers as you know from our recovery ratios that don’t necessarily move hand-in-hand with recoveries.
And there’s about 15% of that.
So I think we had a favorable non-recoverable component of our OpEx that dropped down.
I would say a little bit of the contribution at the rental income level but nothing significant stood out in my review.
So I think you had a little bit of contribution from all areas and it definitely wasn’t another income because other income was down.
And then on the G&amp;A it was primarily the systems (inaudible).
Yeah.
And most of the G&amp;A stuff – a good chunk of that I think is non-recurring.
So we had unfortunately not anticipated some of the cost coming in.
Yeah pretty big systems conversion as Dean mentioned on a number of particular areas of the operation of the business.
Hi it’s Quentin here just going back to the sources of capital in guidance is $112 million of assets sales would you mind to comment that you got to be more aggressive on asset disposition and Joel you kind of alluded to this but I’m curious sort of how many assets you’re looking at – what volume of assets you’re looking at marketing and what the split between land and actual income-producing assets might be? Yeah.
I think we have to tread carefully there because we have to – we don’t have specific transactions at this point in time obviously teed up.
But as I said we have – you look at the supplement we’ve got 24% non-income producing assets to GAV.
And so we’ve got a pool of assets on the non-income-producing side that we’re pretty laser focused on that we hope over as the quarters unfold through the year we can do some things with that would help us supplement the sources of capital.
And so that’s probably going to be one of the dominant factors and features.
And we’ll keep you posted obviously over the coming months and quarters.
So that’s pretty important.
On the $112 million Dean can give you the ratio of asset to just kind of our rough estimate of land income producing.
I don’t recall exactly what that number is but it’s probably maybe 50:50 60:40.
It’s in that general range and I think we’ve got three assets I believe under contract in that number.
They’re relatively small but I think they aggregate somewhere just under $20 million in proceeds.
Thank you.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart from Green Street Advisors.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Dean hope you can help us understand I mean I fully take your points about the evolution in the state of the corporate bond market over the past 60 days but given the improvement just to put it bluntly why aren’t you just jumping through the window? Well maybe let me pre-empt Dean the answer is we have to report earnings and get things done.
But I think the fair statement is if you listen to Dean’s words carefully he said sooner rather than later.
So we’re very mindful of that John and I would say stay tuned.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
And Dean if I could come back to you just you’ve alluded to the ramp up in NOI as projects come online throughout the year and also kind of gave us a sense that one through 3Q should be relatively flat but so if you assume $100 million NOI run rate what’s the step function in the fourth quarter? As a percent of the incremental NOI it’s probably somewhere close to 60% of it coming in in the fourth quarter versus 40% being spread over two and three.
60% of – can you remind us what the number was? (Inaudible) a little bit higher than 60% but it’s in that 60% to 65% range.
And what was the base and what’s the improvement? I’m not following you John.
I’m sorry.
If you look at Page 16 John NOI goes from the actual which is $102 million and then our projection for fourth quarter 2012 is $111 million $113 million.
So it’s about probably $10 million of improvement.
Got it.
Thank you.
And lastly Joel could I ask you to just touch on the of course I guess Illumina is out today rejecting Roche’s bid but given the Genentech example that you cited in South San Francisco could you touch on the potential for redundancy in San Diego and then just perhaps more broadly consolidation in the big pharma sector? Yeah that’s a good and timely question.
I think if you look at what Roche has said the – and what commentators have said there has been a lot written recently both street commentators and then people from the industry believe that the Roche – if anybody would buy Illumina the Roche and whether they stay independent or not I don’t know and that’s obviously for their board and shareholders to determine but that the Roche integration might be the most seamless and the best with Roche’s Applied Science Group.
We have seen public pronouncements by Roche that they were going to move their headquarters of Roche’s Applied Science Group.
I forgot it may be in Europe to San Diego build around Illumina as the flagship piece of its whole focus in the diagnostics and tools area.
Obviously this is a huge growth area given the personalized medicine and it gives them a – how they view moving whole genome sequencing as a routine clinical practices would give them a huge advantage.
Roche is a huge leader in that area.
So we – if we believe what comes from Roche directly this would not be a consolidation and some kind of a movement out of San Diego would rather be a movement into San Diego and build around Illumina as kind of the flagship piece of their whole DX effort.
With respect to pharma M&amp;A I mean all we can say is it has gone on I mean Wyeth and Pfizer being one notable part.
Pharma has really kind of moved on from that world and there still may be more but they’re really in the rationalization of their own R&amp;D and the – really measuring the productivity and moving much more of their R&amp;D to the touch points of innovation.
I mean that’s where they are today.
They get a lot of capital cash on the balance sheet.
Yeah there are patent expirations.
Yeah there are a whole range of different issues that all the pharmas face but fundamentally many of them and most of them have successfully transitioned to kind of the new model.
And again we’ve seen that in spades in the requirements that have come to New York come to Cambridge come to Mission Bay.
So we’re pretty comfortable with the state of pharma affairs today.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Ren from Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
In the third quarter call Dean you made a comment that Alexandria was committed not to raise equity at the price of the stock at that time which I believe was around $66 or so.
Since then you guys raised – funded out the maturities scheduled raised lot of debt but – and the stocks also moved up.
And I just wanted to see whether you are sentiment on issuing equity at current levels would be similar to your sentiment that was expressed in the third quarter call? Yeah.
Well I would say I don’t want to get in the role of trying to handicap what we may or may not do on conference calls but I would say we’ve really set out our strategy on the capital plan.
And as we see it today certainly now and here and where we are in time and space equity – common equity capital is really not our priority at this point.
Getting to the bond market clearly is potentially at some point when the market is appropriate refinancing but perpetual preferred obviously to the extent that we look at any other situation trying to match source with use.
I think that’s kind of how we’re thinking about it but we – we don’t – that at the moment is not a priority of ours.
And obviously probably the other top priority in addition to getting the bond market is really moving that non-income producing asset base down a few notches and thereby freeing up capital to both to pay down variable rate debt and to reinvest in what we’re doing.
So I’d say those are the two dominant priorities at the moment Jason.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Yeah always a pleasure.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no more questions in queue.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Joel Marcus for any closing remarks.
Just want to thank everybody for their time today during earnings season.
And look forward to talking to you likely early May on first quarter.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Karris and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to hand the call over to your host for today Ms.
Rhonda Chiger.
Please proceed ma’am.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities laws.
Actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to our actually 60<sup>th</sup> quarterly conference call as an NYSE listed company and the 15<sup>th</sup> anniversary this month of our IPO on May of ‘97.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga Steve Richardson Peter Moglia and Krupal Raval.
It actually struck me driving into work today as I was listening to sports radio on The Dan Patrick Show that yesterday has gone and it’s all about today and tomorrow.
So we’re going to focus with that as our theme focus on today and tomorrow.
So 1Q was actually a pretty solid quarter and we have the much work to do through the rest of 2012 and that’s really our laser focus.
And I’m going to start-off really with balance sheet and capital allocation thoughts.
We did have I think a very productive first quarter when it comes to the balance sheet as you saw from the both the press release and supplemental.
The consummation of our debut bond offering the perpetual preferred the line credit which we just closed and the – I think really hallmark high quality JV capital or JV transaction with JV capital.
We’ve got much more to do through the balance of 2012 focused on suburban asset sales and as well as non – other non-core asset sales for our capital recycling program.
Dean is going to talk referred to that.
Obviously we’re focused on land sales and we’ll be reporting some in the quarters to come and potentially in other potential JV relationship that we are exploring.
But as you know or should know asset sales on a lapse based world are more complex and time consuming then simple generic offers and that’s important to keep in mind.
So as we think about some of our markets and this recycling program obviously Seattle San Francisco Merlin Massachusetts are one areas that we’re focused on.
As many of you know from our press release and then the previously we did complete a very high quality joint venture in the key Longwood Medical submarket market we’ve held a critical probably one of the best locations in all that submarket highest concentration and density of research hospitals and really teaching platform.
And we consider our main and main location truly a triple like location which we’re always focused on and we will once we open the Longwood center we’ll be the best-in-class building there by far.
We’re looking and we’ll report next quarter at a strong yield and no net future capital outlay which we were pleased about.
We completed partial sale of the land at a gain and we match funded the future capital with both the construction loan and our JV capital as you know.
We did make one small acquisition in a really one of the best locations in all of Research Triangle Park with a solid yield.
It wasn’t something we were necessarily looking to do but it was a very opportunistic situation and we took the opportunity and it will create that kind of a platform for other things we’re doing down there.
One key new build-to-suit that Steve is going to discuss a little bit more in South San Francisco which help moves another key parcel from our land bank in South San Francisco which has been a challenging submarket into development process for cash flow at a solid yield.
It’s really one of the best locations in South San Francisco and it’s certainly is a best-in-class tenant.
Steve will tell you a little bit more about that with whom we have very close relationship and we’re proud that they chose Alexandria over numerous other potential landlords in land sites down there or up there.
We continued to be very focused on attracting high quality tenants to key land parcels for NOI creation or liquefied certain land holdings and clearly our target is to lower non-income producing land as a percentage of GAV to about 15%.
When we move really to operations for the first quarter it’s important to remember as many other teams have reported the macro market still remains challenging and the political climate clearly in disarray.
Following our fourth quarter highest volume leasing quarter in the history the company as well as the highest leasing year in the history of the company in 2011 we’re very pleased to report really solid leasing demand in the first quarter 63 leases signed for 912 000 square feet and really balanced by region 19% coming from San Diego 24% from San Francisco 15% from RTP 13% from Maryland and 27% from Boston.
This really confirms the solid life science demand really for our best-in-class properties and our best-in-class submarket adjacency locations.
There are lower quality lab spaces overhanging some submarkets which are keeping somewhat of a lid on rents and some of those landlords are making in some cases hard to understand deals.
But when you have the best locations and best quality assets we feel good about the outcomes that will we have and we’ll be having.
On the development side we’ve got six projects that are in development.
Steve will talk to you somewhat in depth about 499 Illinois.
But our 225 Binney with Biogen Idec our Onyx deal in South San Francisco Illumina in San Diego another small build-to-suit in UTC with 100% occupied tenant and our small Canadian development with GlaxoSmithKline are all 100% leased.
And we know our challenge at 499 Illinois and as I say Steve will highlight that in some detail.
On the redevelopment leasing we’ve made I think very good progress on for principle urban redevelopments 400 Tech Square.
We’re almost 40% leased.
We have two or three prospects that we have a good dialog going on.
We expect to have some good results in the coming quarter or two.
John Hopkins is now in move-in mode so that’s put to bed.
At Campus Pointe we actually have 17 000 or 18 000 square feet on lease and that’s under a hard option to Celgene.
And then finally at our 1551 Eastlake the former Gates Foundation we’re almost half leased and we expect to have good progress over the next quarter or two.
Steve will update East Jamie for you and I think it’s important to remember that a very significant portion of active development and redevelopment are actually leased and make up much of the projected NOI ramp up for the fourth quarter.
So we think we go into the rest of the year with a good momentum and I’m going to ask Steve to have comment on detailed leasing activity.
Hello this is Steve Richardson and I’ll go ahead and comment on the significant key trends primarily focused on the Greater Boston San Francisco Bay Area cluster markets.
From a broad pattern perspective we’re really seeing the life science sector in these markets experiencing demand from a critically important segment of the industry’s ecosystem and that is an emerging second cohort of companies that are driving towards commercialization and significant product revenue sales.
Large biopharma enterprises historically that provided a foundation of excellence for the industry Genentech Amgen Biogen are now being followed by companies that have been working diligently for many years in product research and development with the promise of delivering novel therapies and that promise is now becoming fulfilled.
Commercialization from these companies is a very exciting and compelling evolution in the industry as the roster of biotechnology companies joining the ranks of the aforementioned giants with significant product revenue is growing in on the move.
So with that backdrop focusing on Cambridge’s Kendall Square district we really see the lab market demand today dominated by companies in the second cohort.
There really organic growth from home grown enterprises at the cost of commercialization and this demand ranges between 1 million and 1.5 million square feet today.
The companies are seeking to consolidate in high quality headquarters facilities that will provide a platform as a commercial company moving forward.
The lease rates today in Kendall Square range from the mid-50s triple net to low 70s triple net for existing space and build-to-suite opportunities respectively.
And has a market vacancy rate of approximately 15%.
Alexandria’s asset-base in Kendall Square is performing very well with a 4.4% vacancy rate.
And as Joel mentioned we’re in the midst of good activity in the 400 Tech Square redevelopment project although we are experiencing some competition from chronic vacancy in other projects in the market.
Turning to San Francisco and in particular the South San Francisco cluster we’ve consistently indicated our caution regarding this important cluster as we’ve exercised discipline and restrain regarding capital allocation for acquisition opportunities during the past few years and focused exclusively on our existing asset base in build-to-suit opportunities.
With that we’re pleased that this discipline and focus has been rewarded as we are announcing the execution of a long-term lease with Onyx Pharmaceuticals for 171 000 square feet at 259 East Grand Avenue.
This is Onyx’s second facility on Alexandria’s fully integrated East Grand Campus and brings their footprint up to approximately 300 000 square feet.
Onyx really represents one of the best of the second cohort of companies mentioned before as they are enjoying significant product revenues today and have great promise with additional products and their pipeline and we are delighted to grow our partnership with the company.
The overall South San Francisco lab market is incrementally improving with a vacancy rate at approximately 9.4% lease rates remain in the low to mid 30s triple net for existing space.
And our asset base in this submarket is performing well with a vacancy rate of 3.2%.
We continue to be engaged in negotiations within an existing tenant and a new tenant at out East Jamie Court development for a total of 4.5 or approximately 40 000 square feet in its 163 000 square foot facility.
And we’ll be targeting Q2 to Q3 to consummate these transactions.
Moving north a bit up to Mission Bay it remains a tight market with vacant in our portfolio of just 1% or so when excluding a couple of retail suits.
The 499 Illinois project represents the only block of space available for life science use as the China Basin building has been fully observed with tech users.
Given the high quality water front location we are exercising patience as we continue dialog with institutional life science users.
We’ve been here before in Mission Bay and brought 1700 Owens 1500 Owens and 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South to the market in a similar state in ultimately secured excellent anchored tenants.
Salesforce.com is in a pause mode as they’re evaluating their options during the next six months that we – as we mentioned before but UCSF continues to make very significant and meaningful investments in Mission Bay with a grand opening of their 2 237 000 square foot Neuroscience Center on their campus and rapid progress on the $1.6 billion medical centers hospital complex.
Moving for a moment to the 2012 rollovers we’re making steady progress in that room as well.
At the end of Q4 2011 we reported 694 000 square feet of remaining leases to be resolved and are pleased to have reduced that figure to 352 000 square feet.
We signed 36 leases in the rollover category totaling 275 000 square feet during Q1 at lease rates that provided a cash basis increase of 1.1% and a GAAP basis increase of 7.6% when excluding the one lease in the secondary Sorrento Valley submarket of San Diego.
The remaining 167 000 square feet of space that’s rolled this quarter is concentrated about 50% in Cambridge and very high quality assets.
So we expect to define 33% in Maryland which may present some challenges and just 13% in San Francisco where we should also define.
The forecast for the balance of the year at this time from a lease rate perspective is consistent with guidance that was provided at the end of 2011 cash basis of relatively flat and a GAAP basis up to 5%.
Thank you and I’ll turn it over to Dean.
Thanks Steve and good afternoon everyone.
Our results for the quarter really reflects a $0.01 increase in our interest expense net for one month related to our debut 4.6% unsecured bond offering and approximately one-half of $0.01 increase in preferred stock dividends related to the overlap of our 6.45% Series E preferred stock with our 8.375% Series E preferred stock.
Additionally our results included a loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $623 000 or $0.01 per share related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees from the early retirement of our 2012 term loan.
Our results also included a D-42 preferred stock redemption charge of approximately $6 million or $0.10 per share upon calling for redemption or 8.375% preferred stock.
NAV read FFO including these items aggregating $0.11 was approximately $0.97 per diluted share and FFO per share as adjusted was reported at $1.08.
Earnings per diluted was $0.41 before the loss on early extinguishment of debt and the preferred stock redemption charge.
Turning to core operating metrics the first quarter of 2012 NOI was as expected at $101.6 million and consistent with fourth quarter ‘11 NOI of $101.8 million.
Last quarter we highlighted 2012 occupancy declines in South San Francisco Greater Boston and the Suburban Washington D.C.
markets.
The San Francisco Bay overall occupancy declined from 96.7% to 93.9% primarily due to the 54 000 rentable square foot move out at Oyster Point.
Occupancy should increase in the second quarter from leases scheduled for delivery at 951 Gateway and a couple of other properties.
Additionally occupancy is also projected to continue to increase in the second half of 2012.
Greater Boston occupancy declined from 93.9% to 91.7% primarily due to move outs at 300 Technology Square and 790 Memorial Drive.
We expect occupancy to increase to the 93% to 94% range in the second quarter from executed leases and expected deliveries at 790 Memorial Drive 99 Erie Street and 6-8 Preston Court.
Lastly Suburban Washington D.C.
as you recall from our last conference call we have one large user of approximately 95 000 rentable square feet at Virginia Manor that is planning to move out in May at the end of their lease term.
These spaces are both part lab and part traditional office and we expect the space to require some time to release.
Another user of 105 000 rentable square feet at 1413 Research Boulevard that was evaluated in which research groups to remain in occupancy recently confirmed that they will be vacating the space in May of 2012.
We get assume a 50% chance of renewal previously so this change was partially included in our guidance.
This tenant at 1413 Research has been in the building since the ‘90s and the older brick building is currently planned for future development or redevelopment.
Looking forward NOI is expected to increase in the second quarter and the third quarter in our estimate for NOI for the fourth quarter remains in the range of $111 million to $113 million.
Our same property growth in NOI was approximately 1.7% on a cash basis and a decrease of 0.7% on a GAAP basis.
The cash performance was primarily driven by contractual rent steps rent commencement on a development project at 249 East Grand starting on April 1 of 2011.
And rent commencement on significant amount of space in the East Tower at in the Manhattan project in New York.
Same property performance also reflects the impact of anticipated rollovers in Cambridge at 300 Technology Square and 790 Memorial Drive in the first quarter resulting in a reduction in both rent and recoveries.
We are expecting an increase in occupancy in Cambridge related to deliveries in the second quarter from executed leases.
Same property operating expenses increased 1.3% reflecting an increase in property tax expenses offset by a reduction in steam and snow removal expenses due to the mild winter in the first quarter of ‘12.
Briefly on our leasing stats rental rate changes from new or renewal of previously leased spaces increased 3.3% on a GAAP basis and decreased 2.8% on a cash basis.
We actually had one lease for about 18 000 rentable square feet driving the statistics down for the re-leasing of the space to a new tenant in the Sorrento Valley market.
And this particular submarket by the way is the lowest rental rate submarket in the San Diego lab market region for Alexandria.
If you excluded this one lease the rental rates would have been up 1.1% on a cash basis and up 7.6% on a GAAP basis.
Our G&amp;A run rate has moved ahead of schedule with the hiring of additional personnel and continued build out of our fully integrated regional operations.
Since December of ‘11 we have added 6% to our number of employees additionally Joel’s employment contract was amended in April and now includes a total stock return performance and other key changes to retain in Joel for performance will also closely aligning with the interest of the shareholders.
G&amp;A expenses are expected to be fairly consistent for the full year of 2012 with 2011 at 7% to 8% of total revenues.
Moving next to our balance sheet as clearly highlighted in our press release and supplemental we had a very strong quarter of balance sheet management milestones.
Briefly the 4.6% unsecured notes resulted in higher interest expense on a net basis in the first quarter by $0.01 related to been outstanding for about one month in the quarter and is expected to result in additional interest expense net in the second quarter by an additional $0.02.
The 6.45 series E perpetual preferred issuance did overlap with the outstanding series E until the redemption in – on April 13<sup>th</sup> resulting in an increase in preferred dividends in the first quarter in the range of one-half of $0.01.
The second quarter will not realize a benefit from this refinancing due to the overlap of the two securities for a couple of weeks in April.
In the third and fourth quarter this refinancing will reduce preferred stock dividends by approximately $0.01 per share again in each of the third and the fourth quarters of ‘12.
The amendment to our unsecured line of credit reduced pricing by over 1% from 2.4% over one month LIBOR plus 40 debt fee for unused commitments.
For an annual rate of approximately 2.55% the new pricing under the amendment is 1.2% plus an annual facility fee of 25 debts.
This amendment will reduce interest expense net by approximately $0.01 per quarter.
In summary in the first four quarters at 2012 we have been very successful in cap in the variety of sources of capital going forward we expect to close another small but important construction loan for approximately $50 to $55 million.
This loan is currently under negotiation for a recently announced development in South San Francisco at 259 East Ground Avenue.
We will also actively pursued asset sales to meet or exceed our targeted dispositions for 2012.
We are currently 42% through our targeted dispositions for the year.
We remain committed to lower library general well required capital to balance our incremental construction spending over time some of this capital will come from land and operating asset sales and we may consider implementing the modest ATM program.
Our debt EBITDA will also benefit from the significant amount of NOI and EBITDA contribution beginning in the third quarter of 2012 and ramping up into the fourth quarter from the delivery of our significantly leased redevelopment and development projects.
Again our goal overtime is to improve debt to EBITDA to sub 6.5 times.
Turning to page seven of our press release I’d like to radial through some key assumptions underlying our guidance.
Same property NOI performance targets for cash and GAAP have not changed from previous guidance.
On a cash basis we’re expecting it up 3% to 5% on a GAAP basis up zero to 2%.
Out expectations on rental rate steps have not changed as well and we expect the renewals and re-leasing of space to be up – up to 5% on a GAAP basis and slightly negative slightly positive on a cash basis.
Straight-line rents have not changed in our projections and our expected average about $6.5 million per quarter FAS 141 at 800 000 per quarter has not changed either.
G&amp;A expenses are expected to be up meaningfully at 12% to 14% over 2011.
Capped interest has been adjusted downward slightly to a range of $55.5 to $61.5 million and it’s somewhat depended on timing of construction activities and the decline is really reflective of our lower interest rate on our line of credit.
Similarly our interest expense net has also declined in our forecast to $73 million to $79 million.
Moving to page eight of our press release we continue to make progress on our target NOI growth for the fourth quarter a significant amount of this NOI growth is contractual pursuant to executed leases.
We updated key assumptions for the fourth quarter and reconfirmed the range of NOI expected at $111 million to $113 million.
Updated G&amp;A slightly to $11 million to $12 million also updated interest expense to $20 million to $23 million preferred dividends reflective of our preferred refinancing down to $6.5 million and reconfirmed FFO at $71 million to $73 million and FFO per share of $1.15 to $1.17.
Importantly let me turn to the sources and uses table on page eight of our press release and just highlight what we’ve completed and what has changed since our last guidance that was reported on February 22.
Our asset sales remain at $112 million for full target and as I mentioned we’re 42% of the way through that target.
Our unsecured senior notes was updated for the final offering increased by $50 million.
We continued to negotiate our secured construction financing for the project in South San Francisco and there is no changes to the estimated proceeds from that but the total loan will aggregate closer to $50 million to $55 million.
We’ve updated our sources for the Series E Preferred Stock offering at $125 million of net proceeds.
And our debt equity and JV capital increased from $238 million to $247 million just slightly.
The remaining projected number at $331 million for the last three quarters of the year includes about $130 million of borrowings under our line of credit to redeem our Series E Preferred Stock.
Turning to uses of capital.
Our construction spending has increased from $584 million to $612 million for the full year of ‘12 really up about $28 million primarily related to acceleration of timing of construction payments from ‘13 into 2012 combined with some expansion construction spending related to luminous expansion requirements.
And a little bit from our Longwood project that we intend to reinvest some of our proceeds that we cashed out.
Acquisition assumptions are up slightly it still very minor number for the year and no other changes other than updating our Series E Preferred Stock redemption in our uses of capital.
So in closing our range of guidance to 2012 was reported as follows: normalized FFO per share diluted remains unchanged at $4.37 to $4.41 NAV read FFO per share diluted was provided at $4.23 to $4.27 and earnings per share diluted was reported at – are provided at $1.6 to $1.46.
And just keep in mind our guidance for 2012 was updated to reflect $0.14 of charges $0.03 of it related to the write-off of a portion of loan fees related to the modification of our line of credit $0.10 for the D-42 preferred stock redemption charge and previously we had provided a guidance charge of $0.01 related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees from the early retirement of our 2012 term loan.
With that I’ll turn it back to Joe.
Okay.
Operator if you would open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Couple of questions from me.
First I understand the language regarding the increase to the budget for G&amp;A expense this year.
What I’m trying to understand that was why wasn’t any of that known or contemplated when the guidance was given just a few short months ago? Well that’s actually pretty easy that’s because the effort to if you – well actually maybe the easiest thing to do is refer you to our proxy.
We spent good deal of time in the proxy outlining the process that we undertook to what kind of look at kind of the ISS issues and that took the study of two independent comp groups plus the board plus the comp committee plus myself on the Joel side.
And then on the expansion side we’re always looking at opportunities in the market and we’re actually pretty somewhat busier than we thought in a number of markets with the activities we had.
So those are things that just evolve overtime as you know Ross.
Okay.
Fair enough.
In your very expensive supplemental I think its page 20 that’s the same question I asked last quarter the yields on the suburban redevelopment are those still targeted in the mid to high-single digits? Yeah I think they vary by individual projects.
Some at the upper range actually are north of 10 and some at the lower range or like in the mid-single digits.
Is there any reason for the second quarter in a row that those numbers got left out from supplemental? I don’t know that they’re left out but they’re not all that material to the other projects that are much bigger.
$234 million so leave that one [indiscernible].
Same – similar questions on India and China looks like it was about $7 million spent in the first quarter $38 million budgeted for the remainder of the year it looks like.
Can you give us a sense of exactly what kind of activity is going on there and I notice the square footage also looks like it changed a little bit.
Well as you know we have two projects that we’re working on China small one in the south and the little bit larger one but by and large they’re not super material projects in China and we continued to enhance the buildings and working on leasing in those markets and we’ll report over time on that our success although China we said publicly is a tough market for a lot of reasons.
In India our footprint is larger.
We think it’s a big future market but as we’ve said both at Investor Day where you attended and then certainly on the fourth quarter call that we had cut our capital allocations to India based on just overall spend this year by of about 50% but we’re primarily working with credit tenants who are at the top of our credit tenant roster to fulfill their needs over there.
So we’re pleased about that as well.
And Ross it’s Dean here to close out your last question on that change in the square footage in Asia under construction had to do with the completion of some preconstruction activity on a land parcel so it dropped off capitalization and is sitting at an idle land today.
Okay.
So just to be clear on the $152 million that’s budgeted to be spent $114 million has already been spent.
Is there actually anything physically there or is that all moving dirt and predevelopment work? No they’re actual operations buildings et cetera.
And but nothing is leased at this point? Nothing leased at this point no considerably leased actually.
And the stuff that’s under construction has some pre-leasing on it.
And we’re all also operating properties with some top tier pharma that are already in operations.
Okay.
And over time when that operation becomes more material we’ll probably even tour people out there so if you want to fly to India over the coming year too we’ll take you there.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
You’ll be amazed.
Say again? There is there on the leasing in terms of the percentages that’s why the question comes from.
Yeah no we have actually considerable leasing.
Okay.
It might be helpful.
Our model for India is not to do spec of element by and large our model in China was to see if we could build in China.
We know we can do a great job.
But as I said I think many times our challenge in China is when we bring one of our pharma tenant over there they end up with 30 bids from local economic development groups economic zone cities provinces that creates a real distraction.
So we’ve kind of figured out how to overcome that but we’re not sure we want to commit more capital with the Chinese market certainly in the short-term.
Thank you.
Yeah thank you.
Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Are you seeing any lift in lab rents in the Bay Area given just how much rents have moved for conventional office from all the Tech demands? Yeah hi Tony it’s Steve.
In Mission Bay again we’ve got the only lab facility there.
So I think consistently as we’ve said in the past we pro forma the project at rents that we’ve already completed at 1500 Owens at 455 Mission Bay.
So I think we’ll certainly do that or better.
And then moving to the South San Francisco we are seeing some incremental improvement.
I would say it’s modest at this point though there are still are a couple of sublease opportunities that need to be burned off.
But I think we’re finally turning the corner over the next – it’ll be a few quarter it’s not going to be the next couple of weeks.
But we will see some uplift in rental rates there towards the end of year and in the beginning of next year.
Yeah I think Tony what really and Steve and I were talking about this earlier what really has fundamentally changed the Bay Area at least the mid and inflow which would be South San Francisco market is really the acquisition by Roche of Genentech the full acquisition that power house of spin-outs spin-offs expansion just has changed fundamentally because Roche being a big pharma just operates very differently even far differently than Novartis which is another Swiss company.
And I think until things settle down with that I don’t think at least in the South San Francisco sub-Mission Bay aside I don’t think you’ll see dramatic increases there I think Palo Alto remains very strong there is virtually no space available down there.
And then Mid-peninsula is not so much a huge lab market other than the Cluster at San Francisco and I think East Bay is the same thing.
Is there – in Mission Bay with your Illinois Street assets would you consider leasing those to Tech and is their demand for Tech other than just lab space at this point there? Yeah well we I think we’ve commented before and I’ll let Steve expand.
We clearly have looked at and had a lot of interest from Tech users if not like in Cambridge its not our primary focus but if somebody is willing to pay us a significant amount of money and it makes sense on that opportunistic situation.
We would look at it much like we did Google’s First Campus I’d mentioned but Steve can give you a sense of how Tech is viewed at.
Yeah we have had serious discussions with the couple of Tech groups Tony and the way we are warming up the building we’re able to accommodate that use and not over invest in the building.
So I think we’re providing flexibility from that perspective and to the extent a floor or two out of the six-story building ends up becoming a Tech use and then further downstream becomes a life science use.
We’ve seen that happen occasionally in the portfolio.
But it’s not necessarily that top priority at all for us.
Okay.
And then Steve did I catch this right in Cambridge you said it was 1 million to 1.5 million square feet of demand did I hear that? Yes that is accurate.
And that’s lab Tony that’s not including tech.
And what’s availability across the whole market? I think you would have a mix of existing facilities and build-to-suite opportunities.
And there is a 15% vacancy rate but as far as large blocks of space that provide flexible expansion opportunities you really don’t have too many of those at all.
Yeah I guess it seems like a lot of demand.
Is there – do these folks have options or is it going to be really a requirement that stuff will have to get built? Yeah more likely a build-to-suite – correct – for the bigger requirements.
Okay.
And then just last question Joe.
You mentioned exploring potentially some other joint venture relationships just was curious whether that was for perhaps development or existing assets or just any color there? Yeah I think primarily development we’ve thought about it for existing assets but that’s an almost like creating a preferred equity structure.
So I’m not sure that’s what we wanted.
We’ve spent time thinking about that but I think on the development side if we’re fortune that in the land some significant developments that are out there we might look much like we did on the Longwood project at a creative structure.
Okay thanks.
Yeah thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi thank you.
Just in terms of the build-to-suite 259 East Grand the speculation at Bayer supposedly bringing talks of a takeover of Onyx.
If that was to eventuate what might that mean for that project and some of the other space that you have Onyx in? Yeah I’ll let Steve comment again on the ground but from a pharmaceutical perspective and a biotech perspective we would expect given the nature of Onyx their platform and their operation that they would leave that fully intact and operate out of South San Francisco.
It certainly wouldn’t change Bayer’s research presence in Mission Bay release separate and apart from that.
I think for us it would be credit enhancement and frankly it might be interesting from the standpoint that they would use that to further expand in the South San Francisco area as well so that could be very good but Steve can comment on the ground.
Yeah I think that’s exactly right.
We have a long-term lease commitment from Onyx.
They worked very hard on the design to build out a fully integrated operation.
And the trend in the Clusters over the past couple of years has been for pharma to keep the operations intact and grow the operation.
So I would be hopeful we’d see the same thing here.
Yeah I think you have to be careful too not to generalize every big pharma really stands on it’s own and Bayer is one that would be looking for a bigger footprint where others who hardly have a very large footprint might want – might not have the same view of maintaining as bigger base or expansion each one really is kind of considered separate and apart.
Joel its Michael Bilerman speaking.
Is it a – just quick follow-up you mentioned having income from India and China but looking on page 38 of the supplemental there is no sort of – the only international assets are listed here are from Canada.
And so I guess the question is when you look at page 42 and the $767 million growth that’s been spent on the development pipeline of which you have $114 million spent in India and China.
Is there any income coming off of that today? That’s been recognized in NOI? All right.
On the projects in Asia Michael that are under construction there is no income associated with those projects.
There is a small amount of completed space in India that’s probably generating… Maybe about $1 million.
In that range it’s $5 million in revenues at the moment.
Yeah on a quarterly or on an annualized basis? On an annual basis.
And I suspect over the next four quarters we’ll be able to complete some of the build-to-suite projects build-to-suite released credit projects and you’ll start to see some additional information on projects in India.
So what else is again at least my impression was everything that’s in CIP the $767 million that you spent is earning [indiscernible] in zero on it right now.
Is that not the case? Are you actually earning income from this capital? That’s true Michael.
The basis in CIP is not earning any revenue its all under construction.
So the – in India that you’re referring to – we wouldn’t be able to pick that up anywhere because that’s not in the property listing that’s separate from the money that you spent in CIP in terms of what million dollars that you’re talking about? Yeah that’s correct Michael.
It’s a small piece of real estate that’s operating in rental properties today.
And you’re still earning some income if I remember correctly off of some of the Benny Street stuff from those existing buildings correct? A little bit and it shows up in our AFFO reconciliation and it’s about just shy of 500 000 for the quarter.
Okay.
And then I pause and I jumped on late and Joel I caught you the end of the sentence where you said something about not understanding other landlord deals and I just didn’t know what that was in reference to.
I think in some markets you find somebody who has got chronic vacancy that’s willing to make such a sweetheart deal that doesn’t make necessarily market sense or when you talk to brokers or you go out they set a I mean this happened at San Diego up on Torrey Pines a landlord leased a building that had chronic issues for $1.50 this is about two years ago when the lowest price ever leased in for similar quality properties where at least $1 higher than that.
So we see some of that around and until that chronic vacancy is absorbed ultimately that does tend to not allow rents to lift as much as possible.
We see a little bit of that in South San Francisco a little bit of in Cambridge a little bit of in few markets in Seattle so that’s something that’s out there.
And on 409 499 Illinois have your I understand you’re being conservative in sort of pushing out the initial occupancy by six months.
But I guess have your return expectations changed at all or your capital needs for that project changed at all in how you’ve looked at it? Michael it’s Dean here no.
The capital investment has not changed and our return expectations have not either.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks Michael.
And your next question comes from the line of Conor Fennerty with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks good afternoon.
Joel just you mentioned the redevelopment conversations you guys are having.
How much of that potentially could come in 2012 and how much have you guys included in your guidance if any? Guidance there is no incremental redevelopments like I think of beyond what’s on our schedule that could come into guidance.
No I meant what Joel reference conversations you guys are having with potential tenants for redevelopment assets.
Yeah I mean… I think the only one that has some incremental NOI potential for delivery is really the 400 Tech Square project in Cambridge where we’ve got a few discussions with prospects that could deliver in the fourth quarter.
And that’s not a meaningful component of our NOI ramp up.
It probably represents maybe 300 000 of potential NOI from that project in the fourth quarter of ‘12.
Okay.
And then just looking at the $934 million left of land on the balance sheet.
I realize a bulk of that’s the West Tower and Kendall Square.
What else is included in there? Hang on.
I’m turning to go to the page.
Okay so the $934 million of book value is really two buckets $550 million of land undergoing preconstruction activities and $387 million of land held for future development which is not under capitalization and that detail actually for both buckets shows up on the last page of our supplemental a couple of pages beyond the table you were just referring to.
And it provides the break out land undergoing preconstruction activities which is part of our CIP category and under capitalization the bulk of that is are development site in Cambridge 1.6 million square feet.
250 000 square feet roughly in San Diego and then the second tower in New York City is the third component.
Land for future development is really spread across multiple markets a little bit in Boston a little bit up in Mission Bay about 1 million square feet in San Francisco 1 million is Suburban Washington D.C.
and 1 million in Seattle other markets about 1 million and internationally about 6 million square feet of potential development product.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the balance sheet is any of the secured debt that comes to in ‘13 ‘14 pre-payable? Generally ‘13 and ‘14 debt maturities on the secured side only have the standard prepayment window of roughly 90 days.
Okay.
So I do not expect any early retirement of any of the secured debt.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Please proceed.
Great thanks guys.
Dean you mentioned in your comments that you used this ATM program.
I guess can you quantify how large you could see that program being and I guess would you be using potential equity to fund the 2012 development or redevelopment spend? Yeah I think most companies typically saw is their ATM programs roughly not that every company does the same.
But roughly at 10% of their equity market cap just to limit the size of the program.
For a company like Alexandria you probably see no reasons for it be much outside of the 250 to 350 range in size.
And it’s not intended to replace a traditional follow on offering but in smaller needs for equity capital you can raise in a much more cost effective manner is we’re all aware of over time.
And just on the timing of use I guess would you sort of – maybe see yourself using that over the next 12 months to fund development? Yeah I’d say over the next 12 months.
It’s fair to say that without any significant news in a big way on the asset disposition front we would likely use an ATM to raise some equity capital.
Right.
And I guess just lastly in terms of the disposition program I know you sold the Longwood property and maybe another property on the market were under contract.
Can you kind of quantify above the 64 mainly show here is additional disposition planned for this year kind of what’s on the market how interested in those assets? And maybe in terms of pace of sales how you see the rest of the year playing out? Yeah I think beyond the few that are under contract which gets us to 42% of the way the $65 million you’re referring to is the remaining of the $112 million.
I would say that we have some early discussions on a couple of assets that could close over the next two three four quarters that could aggregate a little north of $100 million.
I’m cautious about banking on that number because those discussions are still early and there is not contract in place.
We continue to evaluate a number of assets for potential disposition.
I think our product type is a little different than the traditional assets that go to the market.
We are very careful about which assets we sell and the buyers that ultimately we want to sell these assets to.
So it sometimes takes a little more time to execute.
But I think two points George.
One would be I think you’ll definitely see more activity on the sale side both at the asset level and we would have to be careful what we say here for disclosure purposes both on the land and even some as I said buildings both non-core and suburban.
And then on the ATM I would say the way to think about that is we will over time probably put an ATM in place.
We probably will think of it is a very modest program.
And I think we think of it is our goal is to try to keep guidance where it is for the year while maintaining our credit metrics where they should be.
So we’re obviously focused on minimization of dilution very laser like so that’s kind of how to think about that.
Great thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Phillip Martin with Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Hi.
I wanted to just follow up with Steve on the second cohort.
These tenants now that are playing a larger role that would appear in your going forward and leasing plans.
What sort of differences challenges benefits does the second cohort means for in terms of square footage demands costs lease terms et cetera? Yeah let me take a first crack and then I’ll ask Steve to comment Phillip.
I think Steve really put his finger on one of the I consider to be principal future growth engines of this industry.
You’ve got pharmas kind of reinvention of itself as one and we’ve seen a big movement out of there unacquainted and isolated facilities into the hubs and that’s been well documented.
We’ve seen a lot of product and service companies the aluminous of the world and others who are out there pretty aggressively marketing new generation products.
We’ve seen the institutional side obviously grow to some extent but I think that in the biotech industry if you look that separate and apart from pharma this so called second cohort that Steve referred to really is the generation of companies that have been around some 10 15 20 even some I can think of more than that heavily based in the Cambridge Boston area and in the San Francisco Bay area although there are some in other markets.
And what they’re doing is they’re creating kind of many Amgen’s if you will smaller more nimble fully integrated companies that will that have done research they’re now moving from R to D and now B to C and they’ll have strike forces of sales operations they have more targeted products.
Ultimately they maybe picked up one by one or from time to time by big pharma but these are companies that really have and we’ll maintain fully integrated operations in more likely the Cluster markets and Onyx is a good example.
There are several now that have significant requirements that have come to market in the Boston Cambridge area and I think that’s gives you a sense of who these companies are.
Steve you can talk further about what you see in the Bay area there.
I was actually meeting with the CEO of one of these companies yesterday and he was very enthusiastic about having four products in the clinic $0.5 billion in cash in the bank and the ability to really build out to the next phase.
So I think it’s a combination of the large blocks of space they’ll be requiring that credit foundation that they have now and the potential for in this industry some very significant meaningful growth.
So that’s what we’re excited about in our core clusters with the availability we have of different build-to-suite opportunities in particular to offer to these types of companies.
Are the square footage demands pretty similar to what this portfolio – Alexandria’s portfolio has experienced historically? Are they a bit smaller? Can your existing portfolio handle most of this demand or are we going to see a ramp up in development and redevelopment potentially over the next 12 to 18 months to meet this demand? Yeah I think many of these companies and I can think of a half a dozen right now Cambridge based and San Francisco based that are looking to have small fully integrated campuses that could run from 0.25 million square feet to potentially 1 million square feet hard to piecemeal those together the new generation of leaders who want to be as close to each other as possible meaning different functions of the company.
And I think if you look at what’s available trying to piece together in a hodgepodge way multiple buildings in a particular market probably not ideal I mean know a number of these management teams for more than a decade or so.
And I think many of them will be forced to go to development.
Okay.
So is it fair to say that at least in the Cambridge market we could see the development ramp up over the next 12 to 18 months potentially? I think there is no doubt that as Steve described the – currently mark deals on the market that range from 1 million to 1.5 million square feet development will be one of the primary vehicles yes absolutely.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Thanks Philip.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Joel how many square feet are the three assets that are under contract for sale? Dean? Give me one second.
It shows up… Sorry if I missed it in the supplemental.
Bear with us a moment.
It’s about 100 000 square feet.
Okay.
And now that they are under contract can you let us know which markets those are in? I believe two up in Seattle.
One in Pennsylvania.
And one in Pennsylvania.
Okay.
And more to come as I describe John there are at least four markets we’re looking at and pretty actively engaged in this process of identifying assets per sale I think I mentioned Seattle San Francisco Maryland and Massachusetts.
Okay.
Again on-core and suburban primarily.
Right wonderful.
And how about the markets where you added headcount? Yeah Seattle San Francisco San Diego Massachusetts New York.
Okay.
At Sedona forgot.
Okay got it.
To keep up with the supplement disclosure demands at the street in which we’ve expanded our accounting group in measurably.
It’s definitely appreciated.
Yeah no thank you.
To housekeeping ones for Dean if I may.
Dean just the language in the press release it wasn’t quite clear is the preferred redemption charge is that was original issuance costs or if you paid above part or retire that? Well it was the original issuance cost.
We redeemed it at par John.
Okay.
And can you clear up for us what the current status? What’s going to happen with the milestone payments at Mission Bay with the sales force campus in pause mode? Nothing changes from our view of the world.
We in transaction when we sold those parcels the sales force the company recognized the liability for an estimate of potential payments.
And so if those – if the estimates pan out to be true to the T those payments will be made over the next several years.
And that’s from what we understand with sales force nothing at the moment has changed our review on the timing of this potential payments.
And quite honestly it’ll be a few years John before we really know what happens.
Right.
Which from memory was on the order of $30 million right? No it was closer to $14 million John.
Okay sorry if I got that wrong.
Okay.
And then one last one for Joel if I may.
Obviously just a lot has changed in terms of the capital structure and balance sheet just in the last 90 days.
And so it’s been a while since I remember hearing an update in terms of the long-term strategy in India can you give us an update there based on where you are today which is obviously a much different situation then where you were a year or two years ago? Yeah that’s a good question.
And I think Michael was asking about that as well and maybe Ross as well.
I guess there are two thoughts.
One is my desire and our desire as a company but I personally have had a vision for Asia as a pretty big market over time.
But clearly post-Lehman and post the financial I guess the deep recession we’ve had here obviously we’ve had to rethink the pace and the scale at which we could really build out in India in particular.
And so we’ve done that and then even more recently when we looked at I mean 2010 was a pretty strong year up until the U.S.
I think got downgraded kind of late July early August when we were about to go to the bond market.
We remember those dates well.
Clearly we refocused our capital allocation pretty substantially and cut our spend in India by about 50%.
We think India is a big market.
There are a lot of different aspects with the life science industry that can go on there.
There is not only pure health care life science; there is industrial biotech which is big there.
Companies like DuPont and others that use a similar platform.
But I think – and ultimately the goal was to try to get to critical mass to take an entity public on the Singapore Exchange that would be publicly traded and self-finance that operation in which Alexandria would have up on that share and hopefully a liquidity event and value.
But I think our pace have seen that come to fruition post-Lehman and then just post given where the world is today that period is just elongated unfortunately and we’re just doing what we do in a much more measured and careful pace as opposed to one that would be more optimistic.
I mean that you listen to Mort Zuckerman on Boston Properties call and he has got a pretty stem view of the world economic situation.
I think that’s how most people think today.
It’s – things are pretty good in the U.S.
but they could get a lot better hopefully and the rest of the world is challenged.
Yeah and that’s exactly what I was getting at.
So the Singapore listing would still be the long-term game plan but the timeline has changed.
Absolutely.
We thought we could probably do it by 2014 now it’s clearly a couple of years later but that is our goal because we think that’s the most effective and efficient way and also represents the best liquidity path for our investment.
And we’ve got – we hope to do a tour there.
I would say over the next 12 to 24 months and we welcome I think you’ll be blown away by the quality of what we’ve done and the quality of our team but clearly the pace of what we can do and how we can at just capital allocation wise and certainly now that we’re in an investment grade company just have to be much more measured.
Understood.
Well I look forward to the property tour.
Okay excellent.
Thank you.
And at this time there no further questions in queue.
And I will like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Joel Marcus for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you.
We’re 67 minutes in call so I appreciate your attention.
We’ll see you at May REIT and then we’ll be reporting I think towards the end of July.
Thanks everybody.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Diana and I will be the coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K annual report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to the second quarter conference call.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga Steve Richardson Peter Moglia Krupal Raval.
I guess I would like to start out with a bit of a macro view for I guess the second quarter which really epitomizes – I think where we see things today from a strategic advantage point.
And that is scientific advancement as a team froth that can be best done in a bio-pharma hub with multiple players that’s what Boston is to us.
And this was a quote recently in a interview by Elias Zerhouni he was President of the Global Research at Sanofi and as many of you know he was former head of the NIH who really pioneered translational research in areas best positioned to take maximum advantage of this.
I’d kind of like to label the macro industry comments today what I’d call the gathering pipeline momentum.
We’re witnessing a perfect explosion of biotech products earnings and expansion really what I call the biotech business.
And just to name a few companies that are participating many of which are our clients Amgen Celgene Biogen Idec Gilead Alexion Vertex and Onyx.
If you look at the markets the Supreme Court’s confirmation that the constitutionality of essentially Obamacare will move U.S.
to full coverage of over 300 million people which means the market will be increasing and clearly the increasing of the emerging markets is – where big pharma is heavily focused as well.
Last year the U.S.
spent $320 billion on medicine so there certainly is a robust business.
Today’s climate is actually a lot better than you might think the FDA’s been doing over the last year or two a much better job I think from the industry perspective a job of – approval of new medicines.
And if you look at through today 7/31/ 2012 18 drugs have been approved and an amazing 50% of which were ARE client tenants.
The PDUFA law that was just enacted included some very important helpful attributes for the biotech and the pharma industry including confirmation of 12-year data exclusivity fast track approval for new noble drugs which we were involved with and I think it’s also fair to say that based on what we hear from Washington it appear that the NIH will be spared cuts if we get an election that makes sense here.
So we’re hopeful about that.
From the technology standpoint the lifeblood of biotech and pharma we’re seeing really a variety of emerging new highly disruptive first-in-class drugs including things like small molecule inhibitors for cancer stem cell which really potential have the ability to someday reduce or maybe even eliminate radiation in chemotherapy.
So the outlook we’re really entering a second wave for biotech’s successes and we’re extremely well-positioned as the leader in each of our key adjacency submarkets to take maximum advantage of this second wave expansion.
Moving to the balance sheet and capital allocation.
I think it’s clear and Dean will speak to this a bit.
Our goal over time is as we’ve said is to operate in about the 6.5 times debt-to-EBITDA range achieved through a variety of strategies including on boarding of additional NOI continued use of the ATM and pay down of debt continued sales of selected non-income producing land parcels you’ll see some coming up here in the third quarter and we’ll likely see an equity partner for Asia operations to share CapEx for what we consider to be a big opportunity.
We see significant near-term opportunities to take advantage in – of two converging macro forces of pharma penetration of our adjacency clusters as we’ve referred to and now the emergence of this second wave of biotech expansion primarily Greater Boston San Francisco and New York City.
We’ll selectively continue to allocate capital including recycled from suburban asset sales including some even closed today to our core cluster development sites with quality tenants where yields are significantly better than prevailing cap rates on sales of stabilized assets in such submarkets.
So there is a real good business there.
And in the second quarter we did acquire a modest redevelopment site in the AAA location in Torrey Pines for almost $14 million.
When we look to the second quarter internal and external growth I think one thing that is I think we’re very proud of and kind of an amazing statistic is an astounding 48% of our annual base rent from investment grate tenants.
Once again and Steve will speak to this we had very strong leasing quarter almost 960 000 square feet with pretty solid staff Boston kind of won the price 29% of leasing San Francisco about 22% and Maryland about 18% and this included landing the new NIH’s mission critical MCATs requirement which we’re very proud of.
Other than East Jamie and the Gates Seattle Headquarters conversion and gain Steve will talk a little bit about this.
We had solid returns on development and redevelopment.
We have pretty solid returns on our India projects and with pretty high level credit and we’re working on expansion there.
South China which was originally a failed joint venture with a U.S.
and European firm really represented our first test case could we actually build a building in China ourselves and then ultimately lease it.
It’s about a 300 000 square feet two building flex manufacturing complex in South China.
Hopefully after we fully lease it up we’ll exit that asset and it’s a non-lab asset.
In Northern China we’re working on technical infrastructure working hard to lease that development and the challenge in China as I’ve said a number of times is the incentive system it’s when you bring a client to China there about 30 offers to go all over the country.
I was just last week in Beijing and that within officials to ensure that we have an incentive scheme in place to land some of our important tenants so stay tune there.
Steve will talk a little bit about 499 Illinois.
We do continue to be disappointed with the slowness of lease up of this asset particularly in light of strong tech demand in the Bay Area and we hope as we enter the third quarter we’ll see a little bit more robust – and certainly into 2013 and our core internal growth but we understand we are obviously in the dramatically slower growth macroeconomic environment.
So with that kind of as a setting I’m going to ask Steve to do bit of a detailed review of our leasing this quarter.
Hello everybody.
I’ll talk about the leasing activity on key projects the 2012 rollover status for the balance of the year and then a little preview on the 2013 rollovers.
Really the emphasis for our fully integrated regional leasing and asset management teams in the second half of this year will be an intense focus on the three critical development and redevelopment projects we have outstanding.
The first one is 499 Illinois.
We do continue to have conversations with tech companies and life science institutions but no active negotiations are underway as Joel mentioned and that is a bit disappointing.
However the Veterans Affairs lease of 51 000 square feet of lab space at 1700 Owens was indicative of Mission Bay’s continued strong appeal and a must-have location for life science companies and we continue our aggressive pursuit of a quality anchor tenant for Illinois.
The UCSF Hospital continues to bring a strong sense of completion to the southern portion of Mission Bay.
As the curtain wall is nearly complete and a substantial nature of this facility is becoming very evident.
The technology companies continued to gravitate and growing SOMA and MDMA primarily to be amongst their peers and given the right opportunity we believe an anchor tech tenant would change this dynamic for attracting these types of tenants to Mission Bay.
The tech sector is clearly focused on SOMA and MDMA and its driven really by three factors.
First the immediate adjacency to the bart or a caltrain transportation lines.
Second the mature amenity infrastructure and third the more edgy urban nature of the setting in the buildings as they are appealing to a younger demographic there.
The second project in Cambridge at 400 Tech Square has us very pleased.
We have serious negotiations underway with letters of intent signed with two prospects totaling another 50 000 square feet that would boost occupancy to approximately 80% in this 212 000 square foot facility and we’re hopeful to have those leases consummated by year-end.
Kind of more detailed floor-by-floor review of this facility looks like the following.
The lower level in the first quarter substantially leased to Reagan and Alexandria’s regional offices.
The second third and half of the fourth floor are anticipated to be leased to the two prospects mentioned above.
After the fourth floor and a fifth floor lease to (inaudible) and Reagan has the action on the sixth floor and leases the 7th 8th and 9th floor and the 10th floor is currently being marketed.
Moving back over to the West Coast 1551 Eastlake we do have early discussions underway with an important current tenant of ours for 30 000 to 40 000 square feet on the second and third floors that would bring occupancy up to approximately 90% by year-end in this 117 000 square foot building.
Again a floor-by-floor review we have the lower level in first floor leased to the Puget Sound Blood Center a portion of the second floor is leased to Adaptive TCR and the balance of the second floor is in discussions with the tenant that we noted above.
The WBBA hub for the life science industry activities that is really energized this building in this is part of sells Lake Union leases a portion of the third floor and the balance is actively being marketed.
Looking over the next two quarters at the 2012 rollover status we started the year with 694 000 square feet of leases remaining to be resolved and the regional teams have worked very effectively to reduce that figure to just a 178 000 square feet as of June 30 2012.
The majority of the final lease rollovers are concentrated in the following markets and we expect them to be resolved in a satisfactory passion.
We have 40% in the Greater Boston region more specifically about 26 000 square feet in Cambridge where demand is very strong and lease rates for these particular spaces are in mid-$40s.
There are 12 000 square feet in Waltham along Route 128 where demand is also healthy and lease rates are close to $30.
And then other 30 000 square feet in Wister in the Route 495 Corridor where demand is weaker in lease rates are in the mid-$20 range.
We have another 20% in the San Francisco region primarily comprised of three leases in Mission Bay where demand is strong and it looks like one of the tenants right now would renew and we’re starting conversations with a tenant for the balance of the space and lease rates remain steady in the mid-$40s.
Another 20% in the Seattle region substantially located in one facility in the Pill Hill submarket.
Lease rates for product in this submarket are in the $20 range but are generally in the mid-40s for the South Lake Union submarket where most of our asset base is located and where demand is the strongest.
Finally the San Diego and Suburban DC markets comprise the balance of our renewal and the leasing activity up across the country and Sam Diego’s demand has in fact slowed from its toward pace during 2011 but is still steady with lease rates ranging from the mid-20s to mid-30s and Suburban DC’s demand remains weak although we did have a few highlights for this quarter with lease rates in the $20 range.
Just real quickly a preview for 2013 we have a total of 1.2 million square feet of rollover slated for the year and we are in active negotiations for more than 300 000 square feet.
The remaining 900 000 square feet is too early to forecast in a definitive fashion but as a framework those remaining roles are concentrated in the following markets.
200 000 square feet in the Greater Boston market with a mix of suburban and urban facilities.
220 000 square feet in the Bay Area market spread pretty evenly throughout the Stanford South San Francisco in Mission Bay clusters at a 130 000 square feet in the San Diego market primarily in the Sorrento Valley and Sorrento Mesa market about a 190 000 square feet in the Suburban DC market distributed across its submarkets another 61 000 square feet in Seattle again principally in the Pill Hill submarket and finally about 50 000 square feet in the North Carolina market.
I will provide additional details on the 2013 goals as we approach the end of the year and with that I’ll hand it over to Dean now for further commentary.
Thanks Steve.
Let me jump right into our core operations.
Second quarter 2012 NOI was slightly ahead of our expectations at about $103.8 million.
This is before the $5.8 million realized gain in other income and that NOI is up from the $101.4 million for the first quarter of 2012.
The increase in NOI was driven across multiple properties and included value add project delivery slightly ahead of schedule the acquisition of the property in San Diego earlier lease up of a few suites in Boston and delivery of space in India to the top tier pharmaceutical company.
Our overall occupancy including space undergoing redevelopment in the Greater Boston market was about 85% as of 12/31 and about 83% as of 3/31.
We have leased and delivered space as a result in an increase in overall occupancy including our redevelopment space to approximately 84.1%.
We anticipate further improvement in overall occupancy in Greater Boston in the second half of 2012.
The occupancy gains were realized through quick re-tenanting at 300 Technology Square and through occupancy gains at 790 Memorial Drive and 99 Erie Street all of which are located in Cambridge.
Overall occupancy including space undergoing redevelopment in San Francisco Bay was approximately 96.7% as of 12/31 and 93.9% as of 3/31.
We have an increase in overall occupancy through lease up to 94.7% as of June 30 really through short-term tenancy for temporary space for Onyx while we complete to build-to-suit development.
Occupancy in a Suburban Washington D.C.
market reflects the anticipated rollover of 97 000 square feet related to one tenant that occupied a mix of office warehouse and laboratory space in a non-core submarket.
As previously highlighted we expect this space to require several quarters to release.
Same-property growth in NOI for the second quarter was down 0.2% on a cash basis and up 1.6% on a GAAP basis.
Same-property cash performance would have been stronger this quarter.
However last year one tenant had a larger contractual payment due under the release of approximately $2.5 million driving up cash same-property performance in the second half of 2011 to 9.4%.
Overall same-property occupancy was flat to up slightly but does not reflect some vacancy absorbed during the quarter.
During the quarter we absorbed some vacancy temporarily in San Francisco and in Boston and these vacancies resulted in lower expense recoveries and cash same-property performance.
Straight-line rents for same-property is also decline resulting in higher cash NOI due to the start of approximately $5.7 million of annual cash rents from one lease which the cash began in February of 2012.
We also had a couple of other leases with slightly higher steps in cash rents one in San Francisco on and one in Maryland.
Same-property operating expenses increased about 4.5% primarily due to increases in recoverable repairs and maintenance by approximately $900 000.
Excluding this increase in repairs and maintenance same-property operating and expenses increased about 1.6%.
We’re expecting stronger same cash – cash same-property performance in the second half of 2012 primarily due to the recovery of occupancy in the Greater Boston market.
In addition same-property performance for the second half of the year will not be impacted by the larger contractual cash payment received in the first half of 2011.
Moving onto our value-added projects during the second quarter we completed the redevelopment of 98 000 square feet at John Hopkins Court for an affiliate non-profit entity of Novartis and a leading industrial biotechnology company at yield slightly ahead of our original estimate.
Cash yields were 8.9% up 30 basis points and GAAP was 9.1% up 10 basis points.
We also completed the development of 26 000 square feet in Canada for GlaxoSmithKline also it yield slightly ahead of our original estimate.
Cash yields ended up at 7.7% and GAAP at 8.3% both up about 10 basis points.
We also updated our total cost to completion for our development at 225 Binney Street in Cambridge by $17.7 million as a result of certain design requirements for Biogen.
The increase in this cost will generate a return and as a result does not impact our overall estimated yields for cash and GAAP of 7.5% and 8.1% respectively.
Lastly we updated our revenue forecast for our redevelopment project at 1551 Eastlake in Seattle and our estimate of cash and GAAP deals to about 6.7%.
Our revenue assumptions were updated that reflect about 17 000 square feet of this project ending up this pure office space at office rents.
And we expect our lab tenants to expand into this space over time at which point we’ll generate triple net live rents.
Our yields also assume higher concessions of free rent.
As of June 30 we’re 75% leased on 954 000 square feet undergoing development in North America and 76% leased we’re negotiating on 812 000 square feet undergoing redevelopment in North America.
Moving on to our balance sheet as of June 30 we had approximately $1.1 billion of availability under our unsecured line of credit and about $81 million of cash and cash equivalents.
During the quarter we closed a construction loan for our development project in South San Francisco with commitments aggregating $55 million.
Funding under this loan began in July and the loan is expected to cover the remaining cost of the project.
During the quarter we issued approximately $40.5 million under our At-the-Market common stock offering program.
As of quarter end and as of today we have approximately $209.5 million available under the program.
We expect the remainder of the program to be utilized over four-quarter period for funding a portion of the equity needs related to our value-added development and redevelopment projects.
As disclosed in our first quarter earnings call in April we also completed the amendments to the pricing and maturity date of our unsecured line of credit and redeemed our Series C preferred stock.
Moving on to the asset sales.
Again we remained very focused on our asset sales target for $112 million for 2012.
In summary we completed $33 million as of June 30th located in Boston and Seattle.
$22 million as of June 30th was under contract $8 million of which was sold in July and that was located in the Route 495 Suburbs of Boston.
That left us with about $56 million remaining as of June 30th.
Today we completed the sale of two assets located in Pennsylvania for about $20 million.
The PNS for this deal was just executed and as a result this transaction did not meet the criteria for held-for-sale as of June 30th.
We also have about $15 million related to asset up in San Francisco that we expect closing later this year.
That leaves us about $21 million to resolve and we have a number of assets moving along to cover this amount.
We are also focused on continuing our asset disposition program into 2013 and we plan to provide an update on our target disposition amount later this year.
2013 asset sales will likely be form a range of markets including Seattle San Francisco Maryland Massachusetts Pennsylvania and San Diego.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA was 7.1 times or 7.6 times excluding the $5.8 million realized gain from an equity investment in the life science entity.
We remain committed to lower leverage and will require capital to balance our incremental construction spending over time.
Some of this capital will come from land and operating asset sales and some from equity or through our ATM program.
Our debt-to-EBITDA will also benefit from the significant amount of NOI and EBITDA contribution through the fourth quarter of 2012 and thereafter from the delivery of our significantly leased redevelopment and development projects.
Again our goal over time is to improve our debt-to-EBITDA their sub 6.5 times.
Lastly on guidance our guidance for 2012 including the fourth quarter of 2012 reflects the significant leasing status of our active development and redevelopment projects.
East Jamie Court is now 78% leased four development projects are a 100% leased and we are working on the lease up of Illinois.
Our redevelopment projects are now 76% leased are under negotiation.
One lease under negotiation is for 91 000 rentable square feet and is expected to be executed this week.
We updated FFO per share guidance for 2012 for $5.8 million or $0.09 per share of additional other income in the second quarter primarily from an equity investment.
We also slightly adjusted the range for interest expense net for the year by about $1 million in the fourth quarter by about $500 000 and slightly adjusted the range for the fourth quarter NOI by about $0.5 million for the upper and lower end of the range.
These slight adjustments reflect the timing of completion of construction and commencement of rent related to spaces aggregating about 75 000 square feet.
No other significant changes in our overall guidance assumptions as highlighted in our press release on pages six through eight have been made since our guidance from the first quarter earnings.
Looking forward again NOI is expected to increase from the $103.8 million before the $5.8 million realized gain for the second quarter to a range from $110.5 million to $112.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Roughly 20% to 30% of this NOI growth will occur in the third quarter and 70% to 80% will occur in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We also provided a range for FFO per share diluted guidance for the fourth quarter of $1.15 to $1.17.
NAREIT FFO per share diluted for 2012 was provided – our guidance was provided in a range from $4.32 to $4.36 again up $0.09 over our prior range for guidance related to the other income recognized in the second quarter.
Our guidance for EPS diluted was $1.36 to $1.46.
Now in closing as a remainder we have reported NAREIT FFO per share diluted of $0.97 for the first quarter $1.13 for the second quarter and we’ve provided a range for the fourth quarter at $1.15 to $1.17.
These figures result in a range for our third quarter 2012 FFO per share diluted of about $1.07 to $1.09 per share.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Joel.
Operator we’d like to open it up for Q&amp;A if we could please?  (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman Bank of America.
Great.
Thank you.
Can you guys dig a little deeper on what’s going on in Cambridge I know when we spend some time out there it seem like you had several development irons in the fire I’m just trying to get the latest thoughts on what’s going on and is there something that’s changing in terms of sentiment and people’s specificity of signing leases? No.
I think I would just say on the builder suite side I’d say stay tuned.
I don’t what to pre-announce anything but we’ve talked about significant demand there and our Alexandria Centre at Kendall Square one on the Binney Street quarter I think has been the target of quite a bit of interest of a range of this kind of second generation biotech companies that are experiencing significant commercialization today.
So I think that is unchanged and I think you will see some of that manifests itself and unfold pretty soon.
I think when you get back to the Tech Square area and overall just demand then I think as Steve said we’re seeing pretty strong demand.
My guess is we’ll be out of space at 400 Tech Square by the end of the year.
We’re already assuming we sign leases for these two latest LOIs that have been signed that gets us pretty close to where we what to be.
So we’re seeing kind of continuing solid demand in that market I don’t know if Steve has given other comments or thoughts.
Yeah I mean using 400 Tech Square specifically we talked about the stacking diagram I mean once you start factoring the option in that rig and has their – and we’ll just have 10 000 feet or so left on the top floor assuming Ragon did move forward with that.
So it continues to be a very very healthy market.
Yeah.
And Ragon just for those of you who don’t know it’s a nonprofit institute of Massachusetts General Hospital and the other two LOIs that we signed one is a very large credit tenant and then the other one is a kind of an emerging company but I’d say the demand is coming heavily overall from the big demand is coming heavily from the second generation of companies that are experiencing kind of the commercial stage.
So it stays strong.
I’m a little less focused on the tech sector there.
I don’t Peter Steve if you guys have any comments.
I think it’s still pretty strong but I haven’t seen many anything specific that I could comment on.
I haven’t seen anything announced recently but obviously Google and Microsoft have grown I think Microsoft actually took more space at Cambridge Center that was the last deal that was announced.
So I don’t know that’s helpful color Jamie? Yeah definitely.
And then switching gears Joel congratulation I guess and Board of Directors for the NIH the foundation with NIH.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate that there was a high honor.
Good.
I’ll do.
I’ve been considered.
So can you talk a little bit more about what that means in terms of what you’ll be doing and your time commitments and how we should think about that related to ARE? Yeah.
I wouldn’t say that you know it’s a quarterly board meeting in Washington but I would say I’m kind of a 24/7 guy so it won’t have any impact what so ever.
Other than it gives me a chance to interface directly with the – and we have at our recent conference with Francis Collins and a number of the people who were on the Hill requesting NIH funding.
So in a sense it gives us a direct pipeline to that discussion negotiation between the NIH and the government and Congress as far as continued funding for critical stage basic research here in the U.S.
So I think it will be a big plus.
But yeah it doesn’t impact me David.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Yup.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Joe I just want to know if you could talk a little bit about New York.
I know there was a story about the New York Genome Center.
And the fact that they had signed a 170 000 foot lease down more in the – I guess it’s a little further south.
And I’m just curios that that type of tenant was something you could have looked out to kick-off the West project.
The timing didn’t fit or if there was just something about your project in that tenant that maybe didn’t allow that deal to happen? Yeah.
Let me give you a may be a more macro view.
I think that we see as I mentioned the second wave of biotech commercialization successes coming to New York as well.
We also see maybe even more importantly in New York is really become an important destination for new research or development units of big pharma.
And the Wall Street Journal documented that last year with Pfizer we’ve seen it certainly in Lilly and Pfizer.
It’s clearly true that there are a number of pharmas looking to place a unit into the New York area.
We think that’s one of the most attractive targets that we would look at obviously internal demand from our existing clients.
Yeah the New York Genome Center I’d say for two reasons was not of great interest to us although I think it’s great for New York.
I think number one timing was a little too early for us and then secondly I think our own underwriting of that kind of an entity would basically say that we would be more comfortable seeing them move into a more robust funding environment than they are today.
If you compare that to the – they kind of want to be a broad institute.
They’re not there at but maybe someday they’ll work up to that.
They don’t have any anchored donors.
At the moment they’ve just gotten donations from a number of the institutions.
But you compare it what Steve mentioned in 400 Tech Square with Ragon.
Ragon is fully funded institute of the Massachusetts General Hospital.
That’s kind of tenant we feel pretty comfortable about underwriting.
So for New York we just – for timing and for underwriting purposes we just weren’t there.
Okay.
And then secondly on page 33 I want to just thank you for providing a lot more detail on the kind of the China and India development projects that you’ve got going but it obviously kind of bags the question and you did allude to this that you’ve got your two projects in China but not really going forward.
But I guess the cost seem excessively high for at least the project under development.
I’m curious if you could provide us the information for the operating property I guess the roughly 300 000 that’s open.
Is that cost much different than $82 million that is expected to be spent on the other 300 000 foot building? Yeah.
They’re fundamentally – I’ll let Dean comment on the specifics but they’re fundamentally different projects.
As I said we started South China really with a U.S.
company actually the requirement came out of the company that we’re close to in the Mission Bay area teamed with the European company and we then acquired this site – this land it’s a 50-year land use in South China kind of near Macau.
It’s a region we wouldn’t have normally gone to but we decided we’d use that our first ability to have our own team because we don’t joint ventures there see if we could really build a product and then once the joint venture fell apart and we kind of we’re faced with we’ve got to finish this development because in China when you sign a deal if you’re a foreign company and you just don’t go forward you’re not likely to do anything else in China.
So we wanted to kind of preserve reputation and we’re developing it.
It’s an area that really is a manufacturing and flex market it’d be kind of like an industrial area in the U.S.
So the costs there are considerably lower than we would expect if we built a lab product but Dean can give you some highlights.
Yeah just to give you some rough sense Steve I think if you think of what’s in service you probably have a roughly a 50-50 allocation between China and India just on the in-service assets.
But on that specific asset on cost on the Southern China.
Yeah I guess...
Steve you cut off.
Do we have more color on the cost? Your line is open Steve.
Hello can you hear me? Yeah let us work on that and we’ll try to give you a little more color on the costs in Southern China but we would see them to be considerably lower than building a lab building.
Yeah.
I agree.
We’re probably about $70 a foot there in South China.
Okay.
And then Joel can you just comment – it does look like your leasing activity in India seems to be much stronger.
I think your lease – three building are 100% leased one building is about two-thirds lease but maybe just talk a little bit about the demand drivers that you’re seeing in India.
It did sound like you are much more optimistic about that market and it sounds like you might bring in a joint venture partner to fund that how far along are you on that? Yeah.
So let me maybe just say one or two other things about China and then I’ll speak to India.
I think when it comes to China we’ve realized the basic challenge in China is less the demand in China it is more the incentive system and Steve and I had both spent considerable time in China I was just there last week.
You bring a client over and literally that client once they go shopping in China can end up with a dozen two dozen different offers from any number of economic development zones cities provinces and it creates a challenge of sticking of tenants.
So our view is I don’t think we’ll be doing much more in China but if we were ever to do it it would have to be done on a pre-lease build-to-suit because otherwise it’s just a very hard goal but we need to work out of the two projects we’re on.
We hope to complete them and ultimately we would probably exit those projects.
In India we think because you can actually own land there is no government interference there is no real incentives.
It is much more of a normal environment although India still is – it is an emerging world country.
There is huge demand from really what we would consider to be life science kind of the health science industrial uses of laboratories.
We think it’s a big opportunity in a number of clusters throughout the country.
We like the South but the North and the Northwest are particularly good.
Delhi is an interesting location.
We’ve tried to establish kind of critical mass.
We’ve got our own team on the ground.
We’ve put into construction and development a number of projects where we had – we tried to do a little bit like we did pre-crash where we would try to meet existing demand with a product that we’re actually constructing.
I think going forward we would really go-forward only a either 100% built-to-suite or a substantial prelease for future developments.
But we think the demand is really substantial.
It’s a county of as you well know of – well over a billion people healthcare is – and health science is an important part of what they are doing.
They’re still there is a bit of battle over patent protection but fundamentally most of the big pharmas and a lot of the industrial companies who used laboratories for their R&amp;D aren’t looking at India’s Novel discovery platform.
They are using it as a base to penetrate that huge market and one where they can do process work.
So it’s a pretty fuddle market.
It produces I think the most engineers of any country on earth.
There is an emerging big middle class the size of greater than the U.S.
So we think that the demographics and the pieces are in place for good productive work.
We think the yields are pretty good and we think the locations when you can cluster in a knowledge canter make a lot of sense.
But we do think given kind of where we are in the capital side of things where the U.S.
is in macro wise it would be to our best interest much like we did with Longwood to team up with a financial partner there not – we don’t need an operating partner.
But a financial partner that we could split the upside but also split the capital cost and I think we’re proceeding without that effort.
So I’d be happy to answer anything more specific than that.
Is that something you think you could get done this year or is that a 2013 event? I think that’s probably first my experience in India I don’t know I’ve been there may be 40 times is it kind of depends if it was a U.S.
firm that operates there it could go fast; if it is a firm in Asia somewhat slower.
So I would say six to nine months would be kind of an estimate.
It could be that our effort with Clarion and Longwood went pretty fast.
But again India is different.
So I would say probably early part of 2013 first half.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yup.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
A couple of questions for Steve actually.
Steve first of all just curios what is the Veterans Administration doing with lab space in Mission Bay.
And then if you could give us an update on sales force and then last but not least you and Joel both sort of alluded to 499 Illinois and I guess just given the perceived strength of that market would have expected to see more leasing there.
So could you give us kind of – I guess the quarter is what do you thing has held you back there has it been – or tech users gone shy on Mission Bay or is there you need to put more capital in the building what’s going on there? I think it was the regional managers held this Bay.
That’s always a contributing factor.
Yes.
On the VA they had an existing research facility.
It’s really their leading research facility in the entire country for veterans as they have various maladies and they relocated from location in the Presidio based in San Francisco that was very antiquated.
So we’ve been talking with them literally for a number of years.
I think we first chatted with them five years ago just shortly after we purchased the property there in Mission Bay.
And so they were very keen to locate kind of a must have type of location and we are able to pull together a lease with the government actually in record time.
It went very very quickly because they’ve really wanted to see the opportunity there.
On the sales force land there is really nothing new to report.
They had said that it would be two or three quarters while they were in pause mode looking at their existing head count needs trying to find existing facilities to accommodate that and then revisit whether or not they would move forward with actually building out a campus.
It’s really not clear at this point.
I don’t know that we’re overly optimistic or pessimistic.
It’s just under further consideration by their team.
And then finally with Illinois it absolutely has been that disappointing there.
And you see somebody like the VA who have to be in Mission Bay wants to be in Mission Bay.
So they moved quickly.
We just haven’t seen additional demand in the window of time we’ve had since we acquired the asset from a high profile high credit tenant and the tech companies really have wanted to stay very very close to their peers.
I think there’s a little bit of frankly a lemming mentality where they get concerned about recruiting people if we’re next door to Twitter and Zynga and their brethrens and they just have more comfort.
Mission Bay hasn’t really been identified as a clear tech destination.
I think if we were to secure an anchored tenant with a floor or two I think that would change literally overnight but we’re just not there yet.
You might just talk about when the hospital gets delivered because that’s clearly a game changer.
Yeah that couldn’t be a bigger part of Mission Bay with a couple billion dollars of investment going on right now and we do see the full substances impact of a 1.1 million square foot facility there.
Just like we saw when a number of the research buildings were being built out that drove a lot of the clinical demand that has now resulted in 100 000 square feet of leasing by UCSF at 1500 Owens.
We do expect additional demand and it doesn’t necessary have to be UCSF at all but other entities that really make an imperative for them to the nearby if not adjacent to the hospital to look at 499 as a very logical location.
That still is a ways off from ultimately being up in operational.
But I think the fact that the Curtain Wall has completed and it looks much more like a finished product will have a meaningful impact on how people perceive this area over the next couple of quarters.
Have you had any contact with sales force or have they just gone Ray a silent? No we’re in very close contacts with them consistent contact.
We’re obviously neighbors and they just haven’t changed their view on their plans for the future.
Okay.
And then Joel just on the asset sales a couple questions one; what is the mix for the $57 million that sort of targeted to get the – hit the full-year guidance.
What’s the mix the breakout between income producing and land sales? I’m looking at that right now.
So we just closed of the $56 million remaining we closed $20 million today to Pennsylvania since there were operating maybe a $15 million or so would be land they’re last $21 million is still to be determined.
I don’t think there is any significant land in there.
So I’d say it’s more operating in that bucket.
Okay.
I think that’s correct.
Okay.
And then it may not be entirely fair to draw inferences from the discontinued operations on page 18 but if you do look at you had the one income producing asset and just if you did take the disclosure it looks like you’re talking a double-digit cap rate on the – the route 495 asset is that kind what we’re looking at for a suburban lab not cluster asset? Yeah.
I think you’re taking the implied information from the P&amp;L and balance sheet disclosures on page 18 of the supplemental.
Yup.
And I think what you have to keep in mind is the 196 000 square feet is more of a land type...
Right.
So we would have expected the NOI will be entirely attributable to the income producing asset.
On $8 million I don’t recall the cap rate.
There is income related to the land partials they are operating but just not at office or lab rents.
There is income being generated I don’t have the breakdown John I can give you some better color offline.
They are happy to follow up offline.
One last...
I won’t read too much into the $8 million sale as a benchmark for yields on dispositions or even cost per square foot.
Yeah because it’s kind of one-off assets it’s not even clustered.
It’s not part of the Wister asset group.
Sure and it’s obviously a small deal but we just don’t see a lot of comp so that’s why I’m interested.
And lastly for you Dean if I may and I apologize if I missed this your disclosure obviously continues to improve and thank you for that.
But do you breakout anywhere the NOI that runs through the P&amp;L from properties that are still in the development pipeline? We do.
It’s on page – it’s in the AFFO reconciliation which shows up on page 12 and it’s actually burning down fairly significantly.
Most of the revenue – always find at your – it was 72 – so it’s $478 million in Q1 $72 million in Q2 so it’s really burnt down.
We used to be running if you go back to June of – the second quarter of 2011 we’re about $1 million a quarter.
What’s happened is most of that income was being generated out of the Cambridge and Binney Street development site and as we move closer to vertical construction we slowly vacated tenancy in the buildings and since then have taken down most of the buildings out there.
So if you’ve been out to Cambridge lately you’d see most of the sites leveled now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman Citi.
Hi.
It’s (inaudible) with Michael.
Thanks again for the China and India development disclosure.
Would you be able to give us some kind of sense for what the stabilized development yield expectations would be for China and for India.
My sense is that China would be pretty low somewhere in the low single-digits but India will be I guess probably going to be above 10% or an 11% would that be kind of right? Yeah.
I think in China the South China being kind of a flex manufacturing our guess is that’s going to be lower single-digits again because of both our being our first effort in a market that we would not have chosen had it not being for this kind of original kind of group that asked us to go there.
In Northern China I’m sure we can tell you anything yet.
We don’t know enough ultimately because the rents could vary if we were able to land and we’re working actually with one specific tenant right now that’s a tenant of ours in the U.S.
If we’re able to land a bigger incentive package the rent would correspondingly be higher.
So I’m not sure we can give you any guidance there yet.
I’d say stay tuned but again I don’t view China as really a core international operation given what we’ve said to you.
In India however I think the level of credit of the tenants by in large is very high.
Most of our tenants and over time will try to break that out more specifically or fairly large international players they aren’t a lot of startups or who we stage companies by in large there.
They’re some of service companies.
So it looks a lot like China in that sense.
And I would say yields probably will range from low double digits to mid to high double digits it’s kind of range based on a variety of factors.
And so I think that’s kind of where we see things and if we’re able to achieve in a great market here in the U.S.
maybe an eight yield – those yields probably I think are going to be somewhere between 300 and 700 basis points above that just on average but you’ll see those develop over time.
And I think that’s pretty fair.
So just a question is like that I’m going to speaking.
As you think about sort of the balance sheet and in terms of raising equity you did launch the ATM in the quarter looks like you’ve had a pretty hard at least in the couple weeks that was opened in June with about 40 million raised.
And I think being said expect the next 210 over the next four quarters I assume that subject market conditions and if you have the opportunity to you – you may accelerate that.
And you sort of line that up relative to disposition volumes of 112 which you’ve held pretty formal year.
Part of that dispositions is always going right back into development with the one land sale and in Longwood.
So I sort of treat that a little bit separately why not be more aggressive in terms of the asset base in terms of the asset base in terms of selling a substantial more of the assets rather than continuing to raise equity or even try to do a large joint venture on some of your assets or even clusters to raise that capital more efficiently than through the marketplace? Yeah I think that’s a fundamental question that we think about and discuss almost on a constant basis and I would say to you the Longwood process was and that Longwood venture and the yields are actually pretty good and they’re likely to be higher rather than lower over time.
In the one sense it’s a great opportunity to bring in a money partner to off lay capital costs.
On the other hand you can’t get better real estate and you’ve got by enlarge credit tenants and really good yields.
I mean if you could build to an 8.5 cash yield in Longwood and if you exited that market my guess that’s got to be a low-six or a mid-five probably I don’t know Peter can talk about that.
That’s a hard thing to necessarily just give up.
So we have to think very carefully about do we really want the joint venture partners for Kendall Square as an example and that’s an issue that’s not easy to digest.
When it comes to sales of assets we’ve really looked through each of the regions.
We’ve worked hard to tee up a variety of sales.
You’ve got an environment today where obviously capital is cheaper and available but in many cases we’re not interested in selling core – our cluster assets.
We’re interested in selling really some of the suburban and you really have to do that in a measured fashion.
It would be hard just to put in an entire submarket for sale in this particular environment or not in 2005 2006 2007 we’re really in a market that is still is a little different.
So we’re working hard to take it step by step but it’s hard to jump to large volumes.
We all have to be mindful that where we have critical tenant relationships as we do in a number of these cases just to simply offload an asset we have to be mindful of that.
We also obviously have taken the decision to seek an equity capital partner in India like that something that is easy to reflect on because it’s a new market it’s one that as I think great promise there is a lot to do there and so it makes good sense.
So we’re trying to I think attack it in a pretty dogged methodical analytical fashion but it’s not so easy just to simply accident entire market submarket.
And many of the markets we’re in we really don’t want to exit.
So it’s really those suburban assets and there is only one or two locations and you just can’t wholesale sell them all.
I don’t know Peter you could comment as you spend a lot of time on this effort.
One thing you don’t what to do is dilute the market.
You don’t want to go out with a bunch of assets that are all on the same place.
I mean it’s going to cause someone to want to take a big discount to take those assets and so that’s not really the strategy we want to do.
But one of the things that we are looking to do are take certain operating assets that could be high cap rate assets because the reason they are is because the credit isn’t very good and we want to take that capital and recycle it into something like Binney Street where we could get a much lower cap rate for that asset.
So overall I think we’re going to get our NAV much higher by selling some suburban assets and putting them into urban.
I don’t know if that’s a helpful perspective but...
No.
No.
It is...
That’s how we’re approaching as we’re thinking about it.
And then in terms of the aftermarket equity program you did $40 million in the three weeks of – last weeks of June from when you launched it at price of $70.64 with the stock higher today? Is there not a desire to do that quicker than over the next four quarters just from the standpoint of where leverage is today and understanding that you’re sort of want to get back into mid-6s obviously rising that 200 would equate to almost half a turn? Yeah.
Yeah.
I’m going ask Dean to come in but I would say we just had face-to-face meetings with the rating agencies and I think to keep in mind to it isn’t quite like a balance sheet point in time it really is a process in an operating mode modality and level and so we do believe we could operate very comfortably at a – within a boundary of around 6.5 times.
But it’s also a process to get there not just an automatic goal and suddenly we’re there.
So I think that’s how we’re thinking about it but Dean will comment specifically.
Yeah.
I agree with Joel’s comment.
There is not a goal or a pressure in our view to jump to the 6.5 times we’re going to get through there through the delivery of our EBITDA and NOI ramp up which occurs in the fourth quarter and obviously thereafter because we have a lot of product behind it that’s leased and scheduled for delivery.
The ATM program we tapped a little bit of capital in June we – it wasn’t clear – we’ve been off the program in July and we’ll will look for opportunities over the coming four quarters to execute a little more equity over time.
Yeah.
But I think Michael it is true though that if we do move forward with additional construction spending we would ramp-up the pace of that program.
There’s no doubt about that.
And just lastly on 499 you haven’t change your sort of yield expectations or your cost expectations but it definitely sounds like things are going slower than you had hoped when you purchased the asset.
So I’m surprised that nothing has changed from a yield or cost and if you think that things are going to take a little bit longer I would assume you capitalize interest longer maybe you have to provide a little bit more incentive to land at anchor tenant.
I don’t know where rents are today relative to what you originally under road I think it was look like $350 net a month.
So maybe just talk a little bit about what’s happening there.
Yeah.
I don’t think you have an eroding rental rate market and I don’t think concessions are the issue.
Obviously carry will always be important but Steve you could comment on general economics? Michael we originally underwrote this conservatively looking at lease rate that we’ve already achieved at the three facilities they are operating Mission Bay and really what’s change it has taken longer and ultimately we’ve pushed out just by two quarters the delivery of that.
So that in and of itself hasn’t had an impact given other considerations with the lease rate but the original underwriting I think was fairly conservative.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Martin Morningstar.
Yes good afternoon.
Hi Philip.
Just wanted a bit of a macro question Joel could you provide us with a sense of how the uncertainly in Europe may be effecting tenant needs and growth strategies and what that may mean for Alexandria in terms of more or fewer opportunities or may be a shift towards strategies to the emerging markets.
Again just thinking a little more macro level.
Yeah.
I mean I can give you one recent example.
Well I think if you look at the big players in Europe there is not a lot of expansion going on in Europe for pharma.
There is some biotech but a lot of that is really sales and marketing not core research.
Novartis has obviously moved worldwide headquarters from Basel to Cambridge Roche has obviously paid a lot of money and acquired Genentec as their oncology platform and really their engine of product pipeline and beyond that based in the U.S.
You recently had Sanofi I think Chris Viehbacher about a week or two ago announced that he was shutting down sites in Southern France.
These are core research facilities.
Remember there is a French company I think in Toulouse and forgot where the other location was but both on the South of France.
And so what that tells you is he said that they have been historically may be over the last two decades pretty unproductive as far as new molecules whether it be chemical entities or biologics into the Sanofi system.
And so for a French company in a fairly – with a new leader who is pretty socialistic to be willing and he is obviously Canadian but being willing to step up and close sites down in France that’s a pretty big deal and he’s obviously made clear statements as well as the quote I use from he is head of research Zerhouni that they view often as the main place they’d like to grow their core research.
It seems to me European pharma is moving across the pond to the U.S.
into the hubs and not really focused on much expansion in Europe.
So that’s the reason we’ve not focused on Europe because we don’t see it as a real growth opportunity.
And I think those three examples give you a little bit of taste of what’s going on over there.
And I know in some past discussions I’ve had with you.
If I came away with the sense that there was some pent-up expansion demands even within your own tenant base and you’re being a little more cautious given the world we live in today et cetera I’m trying to balance all of that out.
What types of pent-up demand expansion organic growth exists in this portfolio of Alexandria’s.
Today are you having to say no in some cases or you’re pushing it out further bit? Well yeah.
Go ahead I’m sorry.
No.
No.
Are you pushing it out further a bit? Well I think we still maintain we’re pretty careful on underwriting.
I answered one question about New York and how we looked at demand there.
We want to wait for real strong credit anchored tenant.
We don’t want to compromise with just an entity that may need a bunch of space but then we don’t view as highly creditworthy.
In the Boston market Cambridge market in particular there’s a number of fairly sizable transactions that are requirements.
I think we’ve done a good job of sorting through those and making sense of what those are and what those mean.
So I think it’s pretty clear that there is some good opportunities and we’re maybe best positioned out of all the players in Cambridge to take advantage of that and MIT has got a lot on their plate Forest City has got a lot on their plate they’re kind of the big Boston properties business as well and we’ve got some opportunities.
So I think we will be energized.
So I think New York City obviously the Cambridge opportunity and clearly if something moves in Mission Bay we could take advantage of that.
So I think those are primary pent-up demand opportunities that we’re looking at today.
Okay.
Okay thanks for the insight.
Yeah.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Can you give us some color on the upcoming France Park redevelopment project? How extensive will that activity be? The new acquisition? Exactly yeah.
Yeah.
Probably too early to say we have one existing tenant that is looking at some or all of that but nothing to announce at the moment.
It clearly is a critical piece.
It sits across from our one of our prime campuses in Torrey Pines and next to one of the major institutions there.
So it’s probably almost as good as you can get as far as location.
So we’re looking at doing a combination of redevelopment on part and potentially ground up development on the other part but I’d say stay tuned but it’s a really I think it’s a high quality credit opportunity in a AAA location.
Do you know how much capital you’d have to spend on that redevelopment? I don’t know.
Dean do we have any estimate at the moment? No the estimates are still being built Mike.
Okay.
Yeah.
Too early.
All right.
And then according to your guidance you have about $377 million left to spend on your development and redevelopment projects but you would have about $225 million left to spent on your in-process developments.
What’s the rest of the capital coming from? Yeah.
There is actually a pretty good breakdown Mike on page 32 of the supplemental that shows the breakdown for the last half of 2012 at $377 million.
For those of who that don’t have it for reference let me just read off of some numbers $95 million for developments on the backup this year $131 million for redevelopments and these are North America numbers about $43 million for preconstruction generic infrastructure and building improvements in North America of about $55 million; future construction projects in North America of about $30 million and redevelopment and development projects in Asia of about $23 million and that totals to $377 million.
All right.
Thanks.
And you final question will come from the line of John Stewart Green Street Advisors.
Thanks for sticking around.
Just two quick ones.
Joel just wondering if you have an assessment of what potential overlap or exposure you may have from Bristol-Myers Squibb’s acquisition of Amlyin would that (inaudible) that space is potential for rationalization? Yeah.
We have our exposure to Amlyin over the next I think their lease goes out another three or four years as I recall I think about it’s about 75 000 square feet in San Diego.
We see that rolling.
We don’t the Bristol-Myers taking that space and in fact Amlyin has been Steve or Peter you could try on that.
I think it’s been on the sublease market for a while.
So it’s been kind of noncore.
I don’t see Bristol using San Diego as a major expansion hub but I think they’ll keep certainly certain parts of the operation.
It’s much more of a development and commercialization effort than it is really an R&amp;D hub for them.
Yeah.
Amlyin and it’s been shirking for quite a while in the market they’ve got a lot of space for sublease.
So I think once their R&amp;D phase was over where – then they – were concentrating mostly on development and commercialization.
They just stopped using a lot of space so I wouldn’t expect BMS to take any of it.
Okay.
Yup.
So we have it targeted I don’t know if it’s in 16 – 15 16 whatever the date is I don’t have it right in front of me but we’ve assumed actually even before the acquisition that would roll and not be renewed and I think that’s pry too of a bunch of their other space down there would be my guess.
That’s helpful.
And then Dean I know you gave a run rate for straight line rent for – on a quarterly basis but just wondering if you’ve got the fourth quarter number just given the ramp up of NOI coming online what’s the cash contribution or rather what’s the straight line rent adjustment for fourth quarter? It’s probably – I don’t have the two quarters on the back half of this year but they’re averaging about $6.5 million.
I’d say I think my expectation is a little bit more straight line rent in 3Q a little bit less in 4Q.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
This concludes the question-and-answer portion for today.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Joel Marcus for closing remarks.
Yeah.
Thank you everybody.
Sorry we ran a little bit over here and we’ll look forward to talking to you on the third quarter call.
Thanks again.
Thank you once again.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated third quarter earnings conference call.
My name is John and I’ll be your operator for today’s call.
And at this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Rhonda Chiger.
Ms.
Chiger you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thank you everybody and welcome to the third quarter call and all of us here are obviously praying for the safety of those impacted by hurricane Sandy.
I’m going to try to breeze through my comments pretty quickly turn it over to Steve Richardson and then to Dean Shigenaga and then go to Q&amp;A.
But as I finished my first board meeting last week for the NIH it reminded me actually of the great work that the life science industry has done in disease management.
If you think about what has happened to HIV AIDs moving that disease from a death sentence to a chronic condition I think emphasizes the critical nature of this industry and its ability really to manage the economic cost of disease to society.
So I think we remain very positive on the critical nature of this industry’s impact on society.
I think the third quarter and certainly year-to-date for the industry and then our tenant base in particular has been a I think a good year in another wise very tough macro market and one that seems to be eroding pretty much daily.
The NASDAQ biotech index was up almost 40% year-to-date.
We have 13 IPOs in the first nine months and many of them are performing pretty well.
The FDA approvals as I mentioned on past calls are up 27 to-date and 59% are our tenants which is pretty amazing and then a recent notable clinical success was Lilly’s success with the huge market potential of that drug for CNS for Alzheimers.
So all pretty good news in general.
Moving real quickly to balance sheet leverage capital allocation and Dean’s going to have a lot to say about this so we’ll focus his comments pretty detailed.
Our target as Dean will get into our target debt to EBITDA for year end is about 7.2 and that will be almost leveraged neutral from last year’s 12/31/11 at about 7/1 times and again he’ll talk about we don’t expect to draw down or to use the ATM this quarter.
I think one of the highlights for the balance sheet this quarter has been land sales.
We’ve got $46 million completed for this year as you see from the supplement.
We got $34 million pending and another $13 million headed in the sale direction so that will aggregate a total of almost $93 million so that’s good news and a strong effort by our teams in many of the regions and we will continue this effort into 2013.
Steve’s going to talk about asset recycling but in general again by the supplement we’ve had about $30 million to-date $84 million pending.
We are looking at potentially others.
Again this suburban to urban theme and Dean will detail the implications on the NOI run rates.
I’ll see you on the take account of that.
On construction spend $167 million for the fourth quarter.
At the mid point about $630 million some odd for 2013.
We’ve got many second submissions in that as that will be the peak year trailing down into 2014 and we are working hard to manage down those cost project-by-project and we’ve done some good work given some earnings release.
Dean will walk you through the categories of spending for 2013 and the likely specific sources of capital for each.
So the significant land sales free cash flow and construction financing are needs for equity for the coming year.
Actually more modest than I think some of the street has anticipated.
When we get to internal and external growth for the third quarter I think one of the highlights continues to be our quality of tenant.
40% of the AVR from investment grade tenants is about equal the last quarter and again particularly important in a tough macro economy are leasing and Steve will try to give you some granular views.
It was pretty solid at 732 000 square feet.
Dean will talk detail about the core.
We are pleased with our deliveries this quarter; 131 000 square feet out of development 100% leased and 226 000 out of redevelopment 99% leased.
When it comes to the Alexandria Center for Life Science New York City as we announced on September 20 we’ll begin vertical construction of the 420 000 odd square foot West Tower in the fourth quarter with delivery approximately fourth quarter of 2013.
In our fourth quarter and year-end release in February we’ll detail the estimated constriction costs and expected initial stabilized yields.
Talking about pre-leasing progress to date again about a 420 000 square foot building.
Roche has signed a lease for two floors as we’ve highlighted in our release and there’s been many articles written.
We are in negotiations with two-biotech companies to move to the Alexandria Center and they would take between a half a floor and one floor each.
We are also in discussions with an existing tenant for two floors and others at the showing stage we have one floor to a contract research organization and another floor showing to an institutional shareholder.
So we feel pretty positive about progress to date and our target rental rates we’re comfortable with.
Dean is going to get into guidance.
We’ll release 2013’s very detailed guidance in conjunction with our Investor Day in New York City on December 5 and a topside view of 2014 to put a longer-range view into context.
And then I guess finally on the dividend the board will continue to assess an ongoing increase in the dividend as a way to share increasing cash flows with shareholders and you’ll hear more about that.
So let me turn it over to Steve for a pretty detailed view on the leasing side.
Thank you Joel and today my comments will focus on four key areas; asset recycling life science real estate markets in 2012 leasing a preview of 2013 roles and prospects and finally the 499 Illinois evolving demand.
First on asset recycling the company’s pursuing asset-recycling program in a very careful and disciplined fashion during the year.
We are seeking to monetize non-essential land assets as Joel referred to and sub-urban assets lacking strategic long-term importance.
As we really move the concentration of our facilities to tightly integrated brain trust cluster submarkets in high barrier to entry core urban locations.
A number of these recycled facilities are legacy assets that originally served as viable locations for life science companies 10 to 15 years ago.
The industry has grown and matured over time and high quality facilities became available in more desirable urban knowledge locations adjacent to the major academic institutions and in high quality recruiting locations the nature of the demand for these locations have evolved and so it makes good sense to recycle this capital.
Moving onto the life science real estate markets and 2012 leasing we’ve leased 2.6 million square feet to-date during 2012 including another strong and solid quarter with 732 000 square feet leased.
The 7.6% GAAP increase for renewals and release space will provide consistent and term growth going forward and let me also add for a moment the important factor of lease term.
The renewals and releases are over an average term of approximately five years.
Again bearing out that the sector provides significant stability to the company’s leasing profile as these enterprises are engaged in mission critical activities.
In the new releases for redevelopment and development facilities average approximately nine years and highlight not only the long-term commitment companies are making to these facilities but often times the significant hard capital investment made directly by the life science tenants.
Let me get into the details of some of the regional statistics and trends for the third quarter.
The greater Boston market remains strong with about a 10% vacancy rate for life science space and about 11% for the office tech market.
Our facilities in fact exceed this market benchmark as we are 94.3% occupied in our operating properties and have significant releasing or redevelopment projects.
Lease rates for life science space in these Cambridge market are solidly in the 50 to 60 triple net range and higher for build-to-suit projects.
The regional team this quarter leased a total of 313 000 square feet with 106 000 square feet on renewals in our Cambridge and adjacent facilities and another 206 000 square feet in our redevelopment pipeline.
This success clearly highlights the company’s ability to conceive design market and complete strategic redevelopment projects with high quality client tenants at solid yields.
The San Diego market has acted as well and is currently at a vacancy rate of approximately 11% across its key sub markets.
Alexandria’s properties again are better than the market level with a 95.2 occupancy rate as the regional team has very artfully and successfully moved a number of the projects from the redevelopment pipeline and the cash flow in the assets.
Lease rates are in the $24 to $36 range depending upon the product quality and submarket.
The regional team leased 97 000 square feet during the quarter highlighted by a significant renewal with a strong credit tenant inventory client sub market and a long term lease renewal and expansion stabilizing the key property and its rental leases sub market.
Moving onto the San Francisco bay area that market is highly dependant up on the sub clustering segment the Stanford and Mission Bay clusters have vacancy in the 10% range while the South San Francisco market has had another supply increase with sub leases from the land and Amgen driving the vacancy to approximately 16%.
The company’s operating properties however are very strong at 98% occupancy.
Lease rates remain in the low to mid 40’s triple net for Mission Bay; the $30 triple net range for South San Francisco and the mid 30s for the Stanford area so region leased 88 000 square feet during the past quarter.
Moving over to the east coast the Maryland market is holding its own in a generally soft market as we are roughly in line with an occupancy rate of 89.4% although this is down from 2011.
Lease rates range from $14 to $26 depending upon the submarket and the regional team leased another 80 000 square feet highlighted by a key tenant renewal there.
Seattle in North Carolina remains steady with 96.3% and 95.5% occupancy rates in our operating properties and they leased 17 000 and 12 000 square feet respectively.
Moving then to a preview of the 2013 roles and prospects we have a total of 953 000 square feet slated for roll over during the next year summarized at a high level in the following fashion.
About a quarter of that or 242 000 square feet are in active negotiations.
6% or 55 000 square feet are specifically targeted for redevelopment and finally 69% or 653 000 square feet are in marketing or early discussions.
Let me get into a little bit more detail on that remaining 653 000 square feet.
About 80 000 square feet of that is in the greater Boston market primarily located in our urban facilities.
Its important to note that half of the square footage is actually rolling during December 2013 so we have plenty of runway and are optimistic we will renew or secure new tenants for a majority of these space with little or no downtime given the ongoing strong demand for high quality release stage least space in Cambridge and its immediately adjacent urban clusters.
Moving back over to the west coast we have about 234 000 square feet rolling in 2013 in the bay area.
Approximately 95 000 square feet is concentrated in the very hot Stanford Palo Alto cluster and good progress is being made with the large 65 000 square foot tenant that is on the verge of commercializing its product as well as securing a new tenant for a 30 000 square foot space at an attractive lease rate.
Another 95 000 square feet is located in attractive smaller suites in the greater South San Frisco market where we have done very well in spite of the supply overhang in the large blocks of space.
Finally about 44 000 square feet is located in Mission Bay in smaller suites where we’ve had no meaningful vacancy and so we anticipate positive outcomes.
We have today about 129 000 in the San Diego market primarily in the Sorrento Valley and Sorrento Mesa clusters and we are actively marketing these remaining set of suites.
Moving back to the east coast we have 127 000 square feet in the Maryland market distributed across its markets.
We are now in very early discussions to resolve about a third of these roll overs another third its too early to tell and we are actively marketing the remaining one-third to new prospects.
53 000 square feet rolling in the North Carolina market.
Early discussions with tenants to resolve about half of this roll over and we are actively marketing the remaining 50% to new prospects; and finally no square footage rolling in Seattle during 2013 at all.
And finally let me comment on 499 Illinois.
We still firmly believe this is an absolute class-A trophy asset with long-term durable value.
Its provided significant current cash flows in the order of $14 million for the 50% occupied portion and really the game changer for the development portion will be the UCSS medical center.
We are willing to be patient to capture the high quality and innovative initiatives that are ongoing between key public and private institutions and at the same time we are also intensifying our focus on the technology sector with a comprehensive out reach effort and re-imagining of the amenity configuration and offering of the facility.
I’ve been in the San Francisco market for 20 years and I’ve seen time and time again the best located properties with dramatic water front views demanding absolute premium pricing and today’s cap rates for core San Francisco property in the 5% range are certainly a clear evidence of that historical pattern.
With that I’ll hand it off Dean for a further commentary.
Thanks Steve.
Let me start with our core operating metrics specifically net operating income.
The third quarter NOI was generally in line with our expectations.
NOI from continuing operations was reported at $100.8 million and NOI before the reclassification of discontinued operations was about $104.2 million.
Income from discontinued operations net was approximately $4 million and consisted of the following: approximately $3.5 million of NOI about $1 million of depreciation incurred in the third quarter up to the point of classification as held-for-sale and about $1.6 million in gains on sales of real estate.
The NOI from continuing operations of $100.8 million for the third quarter includes NOI growth from the completion and delivery of the redevelopment of 10300 Campus Point with 96% occupancy and the development in 4755 Nexus Center Drive with 100% occupancy and both projects are located in the San Diego market.
These projects on average were in service for approximately 18 days in the third quarter and generated approximately $370 000 of incremental NOI.
This really represents about $7.5 million of NOI on an annualized basis.
Our forecast for the fourth quarter NOI is in the range of $110.5 million to $112.5 million but keep in mind the $3 million of this NOI relates to the increase in assets held for sale for incremental dispositions.
Accordingly our NOI from continuing operations for the fourth quarter excluding discontinued operations is forecasted to be in the range of $107.5 million to $109.5 million and our projected quarterly NOI for the fourth quarter from continuing operations represents an increase from the third quarter of $6.7 million to $8.7 million.
Page 17 of our supplemental package provided a forecast of 342 000 rentable square feet rolling in the fourth quarter and targeted for redevelopment mostly late in the fourth quarter as well as 55 000 square feet rolling in the fourth quarter of ‘13.
Of 342 000 square feet rolling in the fourth quarter 78 500 square feet will be placed in the land held for future development.
The remaining 264 000 square feet is expected to undergo redevelopment.
41 000 square feet is pre-leased at 1616 Eastlake in Seattle and 67 000 square feet at 4757 Nexus Center Drive is expected to be leased to a single tenant user within the next week or so.
The 342 000 square feet rolling in the fourth quarter that’s targeted for redevelopment is expected to generate approximately 800 000 of NOI in the fourth quarter so for modeling purposes assume this 800 000 of NOI goes away by 12/31/2012.
Turning to occupancy year-to-date 2012 we really made good progress increasing our cash flows in occupancy offset slightly with a step down in cash rents year-to-date related to two leases; one of which was in Research Triangle Park and another one related to an industrial type building in Suburban Washington D.C.
Overall occupancy including spaces undergoing redevelopment in Greater Boston has increased nicely to 84.3% as of 9/30 up from 83% as of March 31.
Additionally occupancy is projected to increase meaningfully by year end as we deliver pre-lease spaces from redevelopment at 20 Walkup which is about 91 000 square feet and 400 Technology Square we expect to deliver about 70% of the 212 000 square feet under redevelopment primarily related to Aramco Epizyme and Ragon.
Overall occupancy in the San Francisco Bay area including space undergoing redevelopment has increased to 95.7% up from 93.9% as of March 31.
The increase really reflects lease up of some vacancy and short-term temporary space leased to Onyx while we complete their build-to-suit development.
Occupancy in San Diego including space undergoing redevelopment has increased to 93.3% up very nicely from 81.5% since March 31.
About a third of this increase relates to the lease up of vacancy and about two-thirds related to the transfer of 100% leased spaces from our value-added development and redevelopment programs into operations.
Overall occupancy including spaces undergoing redevelopment of 93.3% as of 9/30 is expected to decline to 88% to 89% primarily due to the 165 000 square feet of space at Science Park which was recently acquired specifically for redevelopment and 4757 Nexus Center targeted for redevelopment in the fourth quarter of ‘12.
Occupancy in suburban Washington D.C.
reflects the rollover in May of 2012 of approximately 110 000 square feet related to Baxter’s lease of office warehouse and industrial space in a non-core submarket.
Consistent with our prior comments we expect this space to require some time to release.
Occupancy including spaces undergoing redevelopment at Seattle has been stable through 9/30 but expected to decline from 90% as of 9/30 down to about 80% by year-end while we complete the redevelopment of space at 1616 Eastlake.
In October Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center moved out a portion of their space aggregating about 80 000 square feet at 1616 Eastlake and South Lake Union.
About 67 000 square feet of this space is office space and as forecasted in October we began the conversion of this office space into laboratory space through redevelopment.
Approximately 41 000 square feet or 61% of this space undergoing redevelopment is pre-leased.
No other significant changes in occupancy is expected next quarter in our other markets.
Turning briefly to same property performance as expected cash same property performance improved in the third quarter to growth of about 4.3% representing an increase over both quarters for same property performance in the first half of ‘12 and again we continue to forecast better cash same property NOI performance in the fourth quarter as compared to again in the first half of the year.
Straight-line rents for the same properties declined resulting in higher cash NOI due to the start of about $5.7 million of annual cash rents from one lease in New York City that started back in February of 2012.
We also had a couple of other leases with slightly higher rent steps on a cash basis; one in San Francisco at 901 Gateway and one in Maryland at 5 Research Place.
Same property operating expenses for the quarter were relatively in line with the same quarter last year.
Same property operating expenses for the nine months however were up about 2.4% primarily related to an increase in recoverable repairs and maintenance expenses by approximately $1.7 million.
Excluding this $1.7 million increase in repairs and maintenance the increase in same property operating expenses would have been in line at about 1%.
Moving importantly on to the leverage as Joel had mentioned on our Investor Day on December 5 we’ll provide a detailed review of guidance for 2013 including our projection of core operating metrics and other important items as well as hopefully a high-level viewer thoughts on 2014.
The following recap focuses on the leverage component of our capital strategy for 2012.
We started the year with a goal to have slight improvement in leverage to approximately seven times on a debt-to-EBITDA basis.
Projected debt-to-EBITDA as of 12/31 as Joel had mentioned is targeted to be about 7.2 times.
Our total spend for 2012 is forecasted just under $600 million consisting of about $429 million for the nine months ended 9/30 and $167 million for the fourth quarter.
Our asset sales for ‘12 are expected to be in the range from $151 million to $156 million with the fourth quarter sales target being about $76 million to $80 million of that including about $34 million of land sales.
So the total increase of NOI from continuing operations from the fourth quarter of ‘11 to the fourth quarter of ‘12 on a quarterly basis it was projected to be about $9.8 million to $11.8 million which represents an increase on an annualized basis from $39 million to $47 million and we focused on continued re-investment of cash flows from operations.
Our ATM equity proceeds for the year through 9/30 has been about $98 million and as Joel had mentioned no further proceeds from the program are anticipated in the fourth quarter.
So in summary we expect to end 2012 at roughly a leverage neutral position from the beginning of the year.
We expect to complete about $600 million of construction spending and we successfully minimized common stock equity offering proceeds to approximately $100 million.
Very high level of our goal for 2013 is to end leverage the neutral to slightly less leverage from our target debt to EBITDA as of 12/31/2012 of approximately 7.2 times.
Our goal beyond ‘13 is to improve debt to EBITDA closer to 6.5 times in 2014 when we also anticipate construction spending to decline from a high point in ‘13 as we go into 2014.
Moving on quickly to our constructions spending again on our Investor Day on December 5 we’ll provide significant detail on our 2013 construction spend forecast but today we’ll provide a few high level thoughts.
Our forecast for 2013 the construction spend is $615 million to $665 million.
Our active developments in North America we are forecasting a spend of about $123 million focused on a few key projects the largest of which is about $80 million or so for 225 Binney which is the build-to-suit for Biogen and again we’ve forecasted an initial cash yield of about 7.5%.
We also have about 16 million forecasted for 259 East Grand for the Onyx Pharmaceutical project with the initial cash yield of approximately 8%.
Most importantly the funding for this project will be provided by the construction financing we have in place.
We also have about 13 million forecasted for 499 Illinois again with an overall yield on the 409 and 499 Illinois property within our initial cash yield range of 6.5% to 7% that was announced upon acquisition.
However we are moving to the lower half of this forecast.
Funding broadly for these projects the active developments in North America is expected to come from cash flows from operations and some use of our ATM equity program.
Moving to our active redevelopment projects in North America we are forecasting about $59 million of spending.
The key project in redevelopment spending for 2013 is about $18 million at 400 Technology Square for various tenants with sold initial cash yields at about 8.1%.
The remaining $31 million is spread across several other projects and I think as you look at this group of redevelopments that we’ve projected for 2013 we are forecasting an average yield in the low 7% range.
Funding for this group of construction projects will come from proceeds from sales of land parcels and the reinvestment of proceeds from sale of income producing assets.
The next category is pre-construction and we are forecasting about $84 million of spending.
The Alexandria Center for Kendall Square sometimes referred to as our Binney Street development project is the key project consuming capital in pre-construction as you recall the build-to-suit project for BioGen which is now under active development has an initial cash yield of about 7.5%.
This provides some insight into potential yields from this development site and we expect initial cash yields to move into the 8% range.
Funding for pre-construction is expected to come from proceeds from our ATM equity program the.
The next category is future construction projects where we are forecasting a range from $250 million to $300 million.
The key projects consists of first of the West Tower in New York City.
It’s expected to have about $115 million of spending in ‘13 and as Joel had mentioned we’ll provide our usual detailed yield information in our fourth quarter earnings release.
The remaining $59 million or the next $59 million is really for future target redevelopment projects which have been detailed out in our press release including Hanover Street Science Park Road 4757 Nexus Center and 1616 Eastlake and the yields are expected to range from roughly 7% to the mid 8% range.
We also have a spend forecast as we normally do for unidentified future construction projects and a few other projects.
Funding for this category of future construction projects will consist of a significant construction loan coupled with some proceeds from our ATM equity program.
We also have about $30 million of spend forecasted for development and the redevelopment projects in Asia and we are looking to develop a new source of funding for our Asian operations.
Lastly our generic infrastructure and other building improvement projects or forecasted to use about $68 million.
$18 million of this represents our share of our JV development in Longwood and remember we have a low to mid 8% initial cash yield on this project and we plan to reinvest almost all of the cash from the sale of 50% of our 55% interest in the joint venture.
The remainder of the projects are spread across really two dozen different projects including a few in San Diego like the amenity building for alumna in San Diego.
This building for example was based on an initial cash yield of 8%.
We expect funding for these projects to be provided by cash flows from operations.
Moving on to the balance sheet matters; let me quickly comment briefly on a few areas of the asset sales in our ATM program.
We have four income producing assets classified as held-for-sale as of quarter-end with an aggregate sale price of approximately $84.5 million.
We expect to close on one sale for roughly half this amount by the end of the fourth quarter.
Including this additional sale for 2012 our target sales for the year will be just north of $150 million.
In September of 2012 we recognize an aggregate impairment charge of approximately $9.8 million upon classification of the four assets as held for sale.
The sale of these assets are in process so the information we can provide at the moment is limited.
Additionally we should point out that the sales price of the $84.5 million for the four properties really reflects significant capital.
The buyers are expected to reinvest to renovate the properties.
As we complete the sales we will provide our usual detailed disclosures for each transaction.
We expect to complete a detailed review later this year of potential assets to sell in 2013 with the goal of continuing our asset disposition program.
We expect to provide an update of our target disposition amounts at our Investor Day again on December 5.
Year-to-date we issued $100 million under our ATM program at an average price of about $73.15.
This includes approximately $59.5 million issued in the third quarter at an average price of $74.97 leaving us with about $150 million remaining under the program.
Again at this time we do not require any further ATM equity proceeds in order to achieve our targeted debt-to-EBITDA metric of approximately 7.2 times by year-end.
Lastly on guidance our guidance for 2012 was adjusted slightly related to our same property performance.
We have been projecting our desire transition of a few tenants that we inherited when we acquired Technology Square and that’s 300 Technology.
We plan to re-tenant these spaces with high quality tenants in a similar manger to our success of redeveloping and re-tenanting 200 and now 400 Technology Square.
We have absorbed some downtime between tenancy due to the leasing and minor construction and remain confident that we will be successful with 300 Technology Square.
This transition has impacted same property results this year slightly more than we expected in the second half of 2012; again just slightly.
Accordingly we narrowed our range of same property performance on a cash basis from a range of 3% to 5% to a range of 3% or 4% and on a GAAP basis from zero to 2% to slightly negative to slightly positive.
I should also point out that our same property performance for the second half of ‘12 is expected to be better than the first half of ‘12.
Guidance for NAREIT FFO per share diluted for 2012 was reconfirmed at a range of $4.32 to $4.36 and our guidance for EPS diluted was reported at $1.16 to $1.26.
With that I’ll turn it over to Joel.
So operator could we go to Q&amp;A please.
Our first question comes from Philip Martin from Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good afternoon actually.
Well first of all retention rates.
Based on discussions you’re having with tenants what do you think your retention rate is likely averaging in 2013?  In ‘13 or…? For 2013 the lease expirations the discussions you are having around those lease expirations.
Retention rates are in the upper 80s I know this quarter I believe it was 88% so it’s clearly.
Through the nine months it was 78%.
Just trying to get a feel there?  I’ll have Steve comment.
One item that might take exception to that general rule is 300 Tech Square that Dean alluded to.
That’s a building that we did not fully we did not go and re-habit like we did 200 and 400 because it was in very good shape when we bought it.
But we bought it in ‘06 and MIT had recruited a number of companies there that at the time we did not necessarily viewed as long-term tenants.
So we’ve thought as they’ve rolled out other leases not to renew or to seek to retain them and looking to aggressively back fill that space with new tenants.
So I think our goal is given our 48% of ABR being investment grade really where we see opportunities in core infill locations where we can replace I would say less creditworthy tenants with more creditworthy tenants but I’ll leave it to Steve to give you color generally speaking.
That was a bit where my question was heading anyway in terms of if they were a little bit lower might they be lower because you are seeing demand from a different or a higher quality tenant?  Yes the answer is for sure and that’s a good question.
Yes I think when you start looking at the specific markets and where we are going to have product available Greater Boston is really concentrated in the urban core area.
The Bay area market will be in that Stanford Palo Alto cluster.
I think we are actually okay generally in Maryland.
So we are going to be in places where either the retention rate will be consistent with what we’ve experienced in the past or as Joel just alluded to we may have a chance to backfill with higher quality tenants.
When you look at the lease term I know you mentioned that in your opening remarks looking at the TIs and leasing commissions they are right around 523.
Right now pretty consistent I think throughout the year.
But you see that leveling off at this point and do you see that average lease term going north of five.
Can you just give us an idea of trends based on discussions? Philip it’s Dean here.
I would say that the renewed and released spaces typically average somewhere between five and seven years historically if you go back five or seven years.
And so I think that 4.8 year statistic for the three months or 4.6 for the nine months is right down where it’s been historically and the development and redeveloped space traditionally is closer to 10 years.
So I think the statistics for a lease term is right in line there as well.
Yes I think if space has turned just remember small and medium size spaces generally released for shorter to medium term where you have larger blocks of space those tend to renew for longer term.
It’s just kind of the way it is and so I think we feel comfortable and as we migrate more space from suburban to urban that I think can only help us.
Okay okay.
And my last question just could you provide a little more detail on Asia.
I know you mentioned potentially looking for new sources of financing there but can you just give us a better feel for how those developments are coming along in terms of pre-leasing timing that sort of thing and that’s it?  Well I think in China we have had some success although not at great yields in South China and in North China we are still working hard to complete that project and lease that up.
Our goal in China over time will be to obviously look at finding someone who can come in potentially and help us potentially take the burden of those properties from us so that’s something longer or medium term we’re looking at and I think the India operations we had good success this quarter a reasonable success on leasing and as I said previously we are looking at trying to bring in a third party to help us finance those operations because I think the real key message and you kind of got it from Dean Dean took the time to go through a very detailed fashion category-by-category.
We have more opportunities here in the U.S.
than we actually have sources of funding for and so even though that has jumped a bit from this year to next year we’ve got a full platter for investment here in the U.S.
on redevelopment and development.
So I think that’s a good sign.
So we are looking to kind of shift some of the burden of overseas investment to third-party and hopefully over the coming months and quarter or two I’ll have more detailed news on that.
Okay that is helpful.
Thank you.
Yes thanks Philip Our next question comes from Michael Carroll from RBC Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Guys can you give us – I know you alluded to this in your comments but a little bit more details and what’s going on at 499 Illinois Street.
Which type of tenant is looking for that space? What kind of interest do you have so far and kind of what the outlook for that property is.
Sure.
We really do have the breadth of interest there.
Technology companies are looking very closely at the cluster there.
Very impressed by the facility; the ability to expand as well as the Soma market gets tighter and tighter large blocks of space are becoming a little more precious.
So that certainly a set of discussions we are having with various people on the tech side.
Then the life science side as well early discussions with groups looking to anchor the building and got a couple of very intriguing opportunities that I had mentioned kind of innovative public-private types of institutions working together in collaboration on solving some very big challenges in the life science world.
So we do have what I would characterize as a series of discussions and in some cases warm discussions going on.
Yes.
So one of the challenges there is because this is a heavily institutional market by its nature it moves more slowly than a more dynamic market like a Cambridge or a Palo Alto.
That’s just the nature unfortunately of that submarket so we just have to be patient.
But I think as Steve said we view the backend to be a good one if we can get a high quality set of tenant the sort of tenants with solid rental rates I think we’ll have a cap rate there.
If we ever choose to accept that would be phenomenally attractive.
All right thanks.
And could you explain why you believe capitalized interest is going to drop? I think it was at $16.8 million in the third quarter and I think the guidance in the fourth quarter is between $13.6 million and $14.6 million.
Is there a specific large project coming off capitalization that’s dropping those estimates down?  It’s actually two primary items Mike; partly the delivery of 10300 Campus Pointe and 4755 Nexus which I described in my commentary.
And then as we all know we’ve been preparing for that significant increase in NOI primarily driven by the delivery of our value-added projects in the fourth quarter.
I think my commentary described the growth in NOI in the fourth quarter.
So that NOI is offset by the shutdown of capitalization as we deliver those projects so it’s really being driven by that offset slightly by an increase in overall CIP from the spend that will occur in the fourth quarter.
So then the commencement and the value-add portfolio is driving that or is largely driving that increase in NOI from 3Q ‘12 to 4Q ‘12?  That’s correct.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi how are your doing? Just in terms of the 2013 construction spend the $615 million to $665 million Dean I know you went through a lot of detail in terms of where the funding is going to come from.
Can you maybe just summarize the key resources in terms of how much cash you are going to be using from the cash flow from operations like you paid the dividend how much you are expecting to issue on the ATM and then how much you are broadly expecting to get from land and asset sales?  Actually Quentin that’s a fair question I think as we had discussed in the prepared commentary our plan is to provide all that granular detail on December 5 at our Investor Day but hopefully we hope to provide some sense of funding by the major buckets.
We are obviously at a cash flow perspective today from operations that allows us to reinvest into our business at about $80 million in 2012 and I would expect that number to increase.
The mix of asset sales whether its land operating assets and proceeds from the ATM program will be a little bit different than what it was in 2012 but it’s safe to say that we are going to continue to monetize some land parcels and also monetize some income producing assets.
Maybe to give you a better fix on that I think Dean’s commentary on the free cash flow would be somewhere about $100 million plus.
Land sales and recycled assets we’ll have to give you more detail at a granular level on December 5 and I think when it comes to the ATM program probably if you think in the 250 range that’s probably where we’d be thinking about for 2013 if that’s helpful.
Okay.
The joint ventures like a development joint venture or something similar to Longwood is that something that’s on your agenda? Not necessarily.
I think on the big construction project in the Binney Corridor we would be looking at a large construction loan and mini perm takeout at about 100%.
So that will cover a pretty sizeable chunk of that funding requirement.
I don’t think we’ll be joint venturing anything at least domestically in the U.S.
of size in 2013 at the moment.
Okay.
And then just kind of on the West Cal it seems that the rush pre-commitment is pretty small relative to the size of the project and I know you sort of covered it a little in your prepared remarks.
But can you just sort of pull through what gives you the confidence that you can commence the project when you’ve only got a very small amount of pre-commitment? Well I think having Roche there and the decision was made the visit was made and the decision made by the CEO.
He actually wanted to know when our next building; beyond that we have an option on the Northern Parcel when that might be ready.
So I think that’s initial commitment from their translational clinical group but it is what it is at the moment.
We feel very good that we have two relationships with biotech companies that we believe have a very high probability.
We’re actually in negotiations with each one on additional space that could be as much as half a floor to floor piece and then we have a current tenant whose business has a milestone in the fourth quarter and if that’s reached they’ve requested and we’ve started to work a proposal out between us for two floors plus we’ve got a very very strong set of active showings to a range of different parties.
So I think we’ll end up probably over the next couple of quarters I’m pretty confident probably in the 40% range so that gives us confident.
We own the steel we own the curtain while we only have to go vertical and I think that gives us confidence it made sense to kick off that project.
It’s also a time in New York where there is less construction going on.
So the ability to buy out contracts and trades with the trades is somewhat more favorable.
Okay thank you.
Yes thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Sakwa from ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I guess the main question I had was the one Quentin asked so I guess we’ll wait until December to get some more details but Joel maybe you or Tom could talk a little bit about the demand up in Boston.
I just wanted to kind of get your -- a little more granularity on what you guys are seeing in terms of either biotech pharma and possibly tech up in the Binney Street area and then I’ll ask a question about San Francisco? Yes.
So I’ll let Steve address that question but let me make a preliminary remark.
I guess what we’ve seen in Cambridge over the last couple of months is a number of companies and this has happened in the San Francisco Bay Area to some extent as well.
We call kind of the second generation of companies that are now commercializing in products fairly large market caps relative to the biotech industry as a whole.
They will move to significant cash flowing entities and they need substantial space and that’s really independent of the macroeconomic environment that’s because of product approval.
So we’re seeing I think reasonable demand in Cambridge from those groups.
I think when it comes to pharma we know that Pfizer has made significant inroads in their work.
MIT is doing a built-to-suit.
We know they’re looking potentially for more space.
It’s rumored that Santa Fe and maybe another one or two are looking at Cambridge for moving some additional research units there plus there’s a strong continuing evolution of early to mid-stage companies.
That’s the one market we see that in a pretty dramatic fashion.
Not so much anywhere else.
The Bay area to some extent but other markets not so much.
So Steve can give you a highlight on Tech and maybe his observations as well.
Yes just to add to that Steve I mean I think if you look at 400 Tech Square and the leasing that was done in the last quarter that’s pretty indicative of looking forward and you had Aramco lease a chunk of space.
They absolutely wanted to be in this location they were supporting MIT’s energy fund initiative so you’ve got a classic case of a company having to be adjacent to these types of institutions you couldn’t get a better credit profile than that type of company.
And then you have Warp Drive early stage company very exciting technology great venture backers and again wanting and needing to be in this type of location and we do actually have discussions and tours with a couple of technology companies as well.
So similar to San Francisco we do see that Cambridge has the mix of both tech and life sciences and we are experiencing that interest first hand.
Yes I think in the work drive situation there also is a Big Pharma that’s I think both an investor and a strategic partner in that company so you might think wow a startup sounds kind of modest but it’s a pretty big startup and it has from day one not only substantial funding but it has a partner and an investor from big pharma which is actually likely the commercialization path.
So we feel pretty good about that market.
Do you want to take a crack at San Francisco maybe the second generation?  Yes.
Similarly in South San Francisco with the Onyx build-to-suit that will be nearing completion I think in Q1 next year a couple of companies that are doing very well.
The anchor tenant in the 409 Illinois building FibroGen is advancing their science as well.
They just had an orphan drug approval.
So we are just very very encouraged by that.
Okay and I guess this – I don’t know if this relates to some of the comments you made earlier but obviously companies like Boston Properties and Kilroy are getting some of these new development sites by Transbay and I realized there is some overlap in terms of the tenants that you might be talking to.
But how are you guys looking at sort of the new development that might be taking place down in the SOMA area in and you do feel like there’s any crossover tenants that kind of maybe looking at both areas?  Not in the near term Steve.
Those are probably a good 30 months away in general and then Transbay is at least three to five years before that’s going to ultimately be delivered and occupied.
I don’t necessarily see traditional tech companies considering more of a conservative traditional 60 70 story tower type of facility.
So at first Transbay I don’t see that being competition.
I think it’s just different location different product type.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks Steve.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from Dave Rodgers from Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey Joel maybe you could just give us a little bit more color on the disposition market.
Obviously you guys have had success this year marketing the properties and the land and getting it out the door.
Talking about any changes in the asset type that you’ve seen or any slowdown in the process if any.
Then I guess maybe a broader comment going in to the December meeting.
Give us your thoughts about the overall economic landscape with respect to being the time for you to start really accelerating dispositions? Should we expect to see a fairly sizable number relative to this year just given that you’ve stabilized NOI the redevelopments have stabilized you’ve got the leverage down and it seems like now is the time to do that but that’s my take but I’d love to hear yours.
Yes well I think we’ll probably be able to give you a chapter and verse come December 5 but maybe broadly on the disposition market and I’ll ask Steve to comment because he’s pretty deeply involved in that.
But I think when it comes to one set of dispositions they really were generated in a suburban location by a user that really approached us saying now is a great time.
We had targeted this for disposition.
We can’t really say much about the details yet because it’s still in contract process but that’s a good example where our desire and their immediate need kind of collided in a positive fashion.
In another situation we see that there is a need to really move the product into a broader product type in another location and there we thought not really are our cup of tea so we looked for a buyer who had both the skill expertise and the ability to put in additional capital and look at that really interesting different product types so that kind of met time and circumstance which was very beneficial I think.
When Dean gave guidance last year at Investor Day for $112 million of asset sales this year I think we’ll clearly see that number very comfortably.
But I think we were taking our time because this is a product type that is not necessarily common to lots of buyers out there as far as basic knowledge but I think we’ve seen a good reception and I think we’ve got some good targets for the coming year but Steve you can give your commentary.
Yes.
So there’s probably two buckets to think about in terms of dispositions.
The first would be the land and as we looked at the land sales those were in high quality locations and really a reuse of the property in terms of zoning was able to be effectuated.
So you had property that we had looked to be lab product over time ultimately be viable for residential.
In another case I didn’t require a land use change but the technology sector was stronger in that area so that viability enabled us to move forward in the land side.
On the existing assets I think it’s important to note and Joel mentioned it again these assets are legacy assets 10 or 15 years ago.
That’s where the industry was located in some cases and as they’ve migrated away we have a choice to make.
Do we invest additional capital does the product type maybe get a little bit afar from our core competencies and is it really a long-term strategic asset and at that decision-making point the ability to raise capital and deploy it to our urban locations rather than the former scenario was again one we just thought made good sense.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Yes I just wanted to come back to sort of the capital and leverage for a moment.
Joel you talked about leverage being 7.2 times and wanting to have gotten to a 7 by the end of the year.
Clearly the agencies have you where they want probably in the mid-6 and I guess you sort of married that up with what a significant spend into next year.
Why not be more aggressive at getting that leverage down now to not have an overhang in the future as you embark on $650 million of spend next year? Well that’s always a question of the hour but I think that certainly based on what we have talked about from the last Investor Day and I think you certainly have represented one of the views there that has been important in our thinking.
As we wanted to develop a run rate visibility a earnings guidance visibility and I think a mode of operating that is not so much in and out all the time that there is a consistency and a predictability to it; so that’s one of the reasons we’ve thought to try to be pretty careful and pretty methodical and pretty logical about what we’ve done this year and in the next year.
I think you’ll see construction spend will start to tail off significantly in 2014.
I think the agencies are pretty flexible frankly as long as we are moving in the direction.
I think we’ll be held in good stead.
I think Dean and I recently looked at leverage numbers of a lot of the REITs and it was actually surprising to me that a lot of them are actually operating at pretty good – when I say good higher leverage levels than I would have actually even guessed.
But I think we are pretty comfortable where we are.
I think we might decide at some point if something came out of the woodwork that we could accretively match that isn’t part of our program today I think we would do that.
But I think we are comfortable.
We are almost down to seven.
I think we’ll be right at seven or so next year very close and I think as we see getting into 2014 we can easily gravitate I think into the 6.5 with the huge major on boarding of projects.
I don’t know that we need to go out and create a radically dilutive $0.25 dilutive event when we think from the sources we’ve described and we can get there in a logical way.
That’s kind of how our thinking is but others may have different views.
Well I’m just curious because you mentioned 2014 of construction spending coming down but then when you start to layer in the Binney Street project and the eventuality of the North Tower if the West Tower is indeed successful and being… That by the way is downstream.
No but it would seem as though there is enough in the hopper to have another $600 million of spend.
You talked a lot on this call about redevelopments going into land inventory.
So it doesn’t seem like that figure is going $600 million each of the last two years is going down significantly.
It seems that that’s going to be a consistent pace in terms of… Yes I don’t think so.
I think again and remember too that we got kind of a cushion as Dean described it; future development projects in one or more of the buckets so we tried to be conservative with some cushion in the 2013 numbers and I think 2014 I think really looking forward the only really big project we would have would be Binney.
I don’t see us doing anymore large scale projects in the very near future.
I think we see there’s some interesting opportunities potentially for selective redevelopments buying locations maybe with them stabilized income we could convert as opposed to large scale development so I think we see that as probably more the business model matrix for 2014.
So I think we’re pretty comfortable on this glide path where we think it’s working pretty well.
We had a lot of feedback from Investor Day last year and certainly over the past couple of years and so we thought to try to again minimize that equity dilution.
I think Dean and his team have done a fabulous job this year of managing it and I think he’s given you and will give you great granular detail on December 5 but if you look at what we’ve got next year we think it’s a manageable number.
And obviously if we can get our NOI run rate up and our earnings projections going into ‘14 to look at nice reasonable growth in a no-growth environment we feel pretty comfortable with that.
That’s very helpful.
Joel you talked a little bit about the dividend in your opening commentary about seeing what would be a solid increase.
I guess how should we think about that level and then also how would it impact free cash flow? I think Dean had talked about $100 million of free cash flow as a source of equity for deleveraging into fund the development since next year.
Yes.
Well I think the key is to share.
The increase in cash flow is not just suddenly move it obviously all to a dividend category because clearly it’s the cheapest form of capital that we have.
But I think if you look at this past year or so what we’ve tried to do at the board level is kind of restore a predictable stepwise increase in the dividend.
Again ensuring future cash or ensuring on-boarding of cash flows and I think that’s probably a similar run rate you’ll see and that still leaves us with at least about $100 million free cash flows for the coming year.
Beyond that in 2014 don’t know but I think that the board’s discussion for 2013.
Sort of if this year is a 10% increase that’s what we should be thinking about for ‘13 at this point?  Probably somewhere in – I don’t know that I’ve looked at it instantly but I would say somewhere in the 5% to 10% range.
Okay.
And then just this last question just in terms of understanding the comparing contrasting 409 499 and your confidence level when you bought that asset vacant or half the asset vacant and the confidence level here in New York about going vertical on the second Tower and you talked a little bit about this previously.
But how should we just sort of think about those two situations because when you bought 499 409 you were really confident about leasing that up pretty quickly.
I guess how should we view the ability in New York about going vertical? Yes well I think on 499 I think our view is actually -- we try to provide and we are still as Dean mentioned we are still sticking with our yield projection but at the lower end so I think what that shows is we still feel like we put adequate cushion into that lease up.
We never thought it would be simple day one but we thought that with the hospital’s momentum it would go faster than it actually has it kind of sucks that it didn’t.
But I don’t think we’ve changed our view that as Steve said its high quality and that will be successful.
The street will judge us by not what we say but obviously by what happens but I feel pretty good about New York.
I think Roche has been a big plus.
We’ve got some pretty great current tenant interest.
One tenant is step forward.
We know that there is one or two others that are in discussions internally about expansion space that could even be as many as three current tenants which would be pretty amazing but we’ve got two biotech companies that have high probabilities.
We are in negotiation specific dollars and provision negotiation and then we’ve got pretty active showings with a whole range of… I did a trip last week to the headquarters of one major company.
They are very interested.
Don’t know where they’ll end up but my personal view is they’ll come to New York.
So we see a lot of activity but again we only want to be judged by how we succeed not what we say but we feel comfortable pulling the trigger on that incremental spend because we own as I say we own this deal the curtail wall.
We just go vertical and we think it’s a good time in New York to do that and that’s been another reason we felt pretty comfortable with that.
So I guess my level of confidence is pretty solid.
Time will tell I mean if we did build the East Tower through the Lehman fiasco and the cliff of almost disaster before TARP kind of came on and so forth.
So we managed to get through that and had a firm delivery date to full lease up.
It took a year which was faster two years faster than we had gathered.
So I don’t know it’s a hunch it’s an instinct it’s a heal based on all the people we are talking to and I hope we are right and if we are wrong then we’ll get on the Street we’ll make that judgment but we feel pretty good about it.
I think having Roche as the anchor has been a huge plus from the quality and the efforts they are going to put forth in New York.
So I think if we had no anchor we never would have pulled this off.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Yes thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Marcus do you have any closing remarks? Just to say thank you.
We’ll talk in February and again stay safe over the next day or two.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You many now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earning Conference Call.
My name is Myesha and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to the Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Call and Happy New Year to everybody.
Sorry for the late notice we were going to release next week but I’ve got to fly to Basel to meet with Roche’s CEO and so we needed to kind of accelerate our earnings release so apologize for the inconvenience.
ARE’s solid progress in both the fourth quarter and in 2012 I think positions us well for 2013.
It reminds me of Lou Holtz’s quote of football fame: Ability is what you’re capable of doing; Motivation determines what you do; But attitude determines how well you do it.
And I think it’s fair to say in each and every one of our key CBD cluster markets we are the landlord of the choice and most admired life science real estate company because of our unparalleled knowledge expertise and experience and really a can-do attitude for our clients and world-class network.
And really it’s a great credit to this first-in-class team and want to thank them for all they do during this past year.
We’re also very proud of our accounting and financial groups best-in-class disclosure supplement introduced about a year ago and continually enhanced and we hope that you appreciate the work that’s gone into that.
What I want to do is really look forward to 2013.
I think 2013 will be a breakout year for Alexandria.
We certainly intend to increase per share value demonstrably and as a leader of life science both on a branding and quality leadership standpoint we expect to continue to get wider access to lower cost capital growing that per share earnings solid recycling of assets positive internal growth and increasing dividend.
We expect that solid revenue growth from development and redevelopment will continue we think for NOI.
Dean will talk in depth about same-store but we expect that growth to be driven increasingly or by increasing occupancy and strong leasing and believe for 2013 we’re already nicely outpacing our internal model for leasing projections.
We expect to achieve our debt to adjusted EBITDA target of about 6.5x by fourth quarter and we expect to continue to successfully recycle assets to reinvest in high-quality CBD best-in-class assets as well as achieve our targeted 15% to 17% non-income producing real estate as a percentage of gross asset value.
In January 2013 we began the monetization of our 75/125 Binney Street Cambridge parcel the second out of four key parcels in that development; the first one to Biogen Idec which will be delivered in the fourth quarter and they’ve had a sterling year and that by the way a very solid yield.
ARIAD Pharmaceutical is signed to take almost a quarter million square feet.
We think it’s about 63% of the project and we think there is a very high and strong likelihood they’ll take the balance.
It’s a first-in-class oncology company which received early FDA approval for their first-in-class rationally designed small molecule unique cancer drug ponatinib.
I had the privilege of serving on ARIAD’s board for many years and it is truly a first-in-class second cohort commercial stage biotech company.
As was noted in the Boston Properties Call Cambridge – Boston Cambridge is undergoing really an astounding boom in lab space development and we’re a significant beneficiary thereof with two out of the seven projects.
Moving on to our project in New York beyond Roche we’re in LOI negotiations for seven additional floors of about 30 000 square foot – square feet each or approximately 210 000 square feet with eight different entities we feel all lab space users.
We feel that the pace of lease-up will beat our internal projections and most of these are 10-year plus leases with strong rental rates with escalators.
I’ll come back in the moment and talk about yields and costs.
Moving on to the recycling really our sales and asset recycling program really headed by Peter Moglia.
In January you’ll note from the Supplement we did close the 1124 Columbia Street project a project we actually bought pre-public together with two land parcels for about $42.6 million carry-backs on paper.
This is being converted to medical office and almost all the tenants are rolling out.
The strategy was to exit the First Hill submarket; it’s no longer a lab market.
It really is a hospital and medical office market to rid vacancy coming in a non-lab market and also to recycle to core CBD assets so that met all of our goals there.
So this month in February we closed on 25 35 and 45 West Watkins.
This was again a pre-IPO asset together with 1201 Clopper which was a build-to-suit we did a number of years ago for Digene which has been acquired by QIAGEN.
That lease rolls in a couple of years and that property will have to be multi-tenanted.
And there’s quite a bit of office vacancy in the West Watkins property together with a land parcel that’s adjacent thereto $41.4 million.
So again the strategy was to lighten our exposure to the Gaithersburg submarket as we’ve spoken about on a number of occasions rid coming vacancy in a suburban market and recycle to core CBD and we’re very proud of that Peter’s team for executing in a really excellent fashion.
I want to address and Steve will speak a little bit about this when it comes to San Francisco the important issue of yields.
And I think it’s – investors should really take great comfort that Alexandria is really besting most others on the yield front.
And let me walk you through examples.
I think if you look at others build-to-suit yields assuming you can find them and acquisition cap rates in this low cap rate market it’s pretty clear that tech either developments or acquisitions are not beating our yields and neither our New York City or Cambridge Boston CBD office development or acquisitions so we feel very comfortable about what we’ve been doing.
In fact our patented lab space niche which we invented is in fact a mainstream product now and should be viewed as such.
If you go to Page 3 of the Supplement at front end of the press release I should say and you look at the development and redevelopment of the 75/125 Binney street project north of 8% yields.
We feel very comfortable with those yields.
And I think it’s – we’re proud to say that those probably beat most other yields in the Boston or Cambridge market that we’re aware of.
We know of some assets that may be coming to market at either 6% or sub-6% cap rates.
And so we feel we’re doing much better than that.
I’ll come back to New York in a moment.
On the Longwood asset again a north of 8% yield we know that there’s another commercial building in that market that was over $1 000 a foot with probably a 5% or 6% yield on it and other developments in the Greater Boston area that certainly don’t come close to a plus 8% yield.
And then if you look at our San Diego Seattle and a number of the other developments and redevelopments we’ve delivered outside of one or two that have struggled along like East Jamie Court again we feel like we have a very strong yield production; so we feel a lot good about that.
And I think few if any others are going to beat us either on an acquisition or a development with these yields.
When you look at New York there’s some I know thinking about while why can’t Alexandria build to a 7% or 8% in New York.
While given the cost of building in New York certainly the carry costs during the Lehman downturn we feel very good about a north 6.5% yield.
High-quality tenants long-term leases good escalators.
And I think it’s fair to say that those who are acquiring first-in-class CPD assets in New York don’t come close to that kind of a yield.
We know buildings like the GM and other buildings which have very little lease rollups were acquired at substantially less than those rates even though they’re a little bit different product type.
When it comes to cost in New York it’s pretty clear New York is just an expensive place to do business but if you compare it say to Boston Longwood areas and others I think it – it’s not unusually high when you look at the carry through the Lehman downturn which was longer than we expected.
That certainly adds to bases quality of finishes and obviously building a podium platform infrastructure is very expensive in New York but we had no systems damage during the storm so I think our design and our enhancements made a big difference.
Moving on to the life science industry many real estate analysts and investors still fundamentally I think don’t understand this industry.
And I think it’s fair to say that by all accounts 2012 was in fact a very positive year for both the bio and pharma sectors of the industry.
According to Patel and R&amp;D Magazine U.S.
life science real estate and that’s just in the U.S.
is expected to increase this year by 1.5% to a very healthy $82.7 billion of R&amp;D spend.
Bio and pharma had excellent 2012 capital markets performances.
Pharma is continuing to be very profitable stock prices are doing by and large reasonably well and they’re sitting on $197 billion in cash to fund R&amp;D M&amp;A and partnering to fill pipeline.
Clearly open innovation and external research is the key to today’s focus and key CBD life science clusters and this is really where ARE’s sweet spot is.
So the Venn diagram is substantially overlapping with where we have class A assets in Cambridge New York City San Francisco and San Diego.
We have the locations they want.
We have the knowledge and expertise they want and we have the innovative and collaborative environments they desperately seek.
Robust set of second cohort commercial stage biotech companies are driving demand and space needs in a number of these markets including ones like ARIAD and Onyx that we’ve landed.
Demand for clinical development in later stage space is not a negative; it’s also a big positive and we’ve captured key requirements from Roche in New York City and Biogen Idec in Cambridge for this type of space.
This is a plus as I said not a negative as some have opined.
Headlines from December 10 2012 Barron’s their feature article on the drug industry Looking Beyond the Patent Cliff really the key byline was after a decade of running a large patent cliff Big Pharma is reaching the other side with rich dividend yields and opportunities for growth.
In 2013 six of the top 20 selling drugs will be biologics or are biologics and that’s going to boost exclusive marketing windows for drugmakers because biologics can’t be easily copied.
Biosimilars are generic biologics.
In other words clearly we’ll not see meaningful sales growth until 2018 to 2020 and I think that gives us great comfort.
And then finally on the heels of an approximately 12% dividend increase in 2012 the board’s likely to seek to continue support an increasing dividend in 2013 to share our increasing cash flows with shareholders.
So with that said let me turn it over to Steve for some details on the lease end of things.
Thank you Joel.
I’ll go ahead and focus my comments on two key areas the first being the Q4 and 2012 leasing results and then we’ll look forward a little bit at the status of the 2013 roles for each region.
So the company delivered strong operating results during 2012 leasing a total of 3 281 000 square feet in 187 leases and finished with a solid Q4 2012 leasing a total of 678 000 square feet in 47 leases.
I’ll provide more color on this consistent performance in each region but will note that these statistics really highlight the company’s ability to engage its client/tenants in a way that is unique and differentiated in the real estate industry.
We’re bringing to bear our entire operating platform including our proprietary life sciences underwriting teams to fully engage with these clients not only on an operational level to provide class A service for mission critical facilities and enhance amenities to support an intrinsically collaborative culture but also on a business development level to partner and leverage a best-in-class network of industry leaders.
So as we look at Cambridge we leased a total of 924 000 square feet during 2012 including 92 000 square feet of that executed during Q4.
We had a nice occupancy increase this past year of 70 basis points from 93.9% to 94.6% and rents for Class-A product have solid support in the mid-to-high $50 triple net range and significantly higher for new build-to-suit product.
The last quarter featured a 47 000 square foot lease renewal with Novartis in Tech Square.
No downtime no tenant improvements with a nice 3% increase.
The balance of the suites leased last quarter range from 2 500 to 9 200 feet and so we’re encouraged with the early stage segment as well as an important complement to the second cohort of homegrown companies that Joel mentioned that are commercializing critical lifesaving products continuing with the announcement in early 2013 of the long-term lease of 244 000 square feet to ARIAD.
The overall Cambridge market is healthy.
As the vacancy rate decreased a full 670 basis points from 17% to 10.3% during this past year as a result of the highest absorption rate since 2000.
It is also important to note the expansion of really some of the key pillars of the life science industry with significant construction activity underway.
Biogen is building half a million square feet Novartis another 570 000 square feet The Broad Institute’s 250 000 square feet Pfizer’s 231 000 square feet and Mass General’s Reagan Institute 75 000 square feet are a clear indicator of the dynamic market in and around Alexandria’s core Kendall Square and Binney Street Holdings.
Moving down Maryland.
Given our significant attention to this cluster with the regional team during 2012 we’re very pleased to see the market stabilize and believe the hard work is paying off with pretty significant performance during that year.
We leased 547 000 square feet throughout the year and including 171 000 square feet during Q4.
We did experience a bottoming out of our occupancy rate of 89.4% at the end of the third quarter and we’ve seen an improvement of 150 basis points to 90.9% at the end of the fourth quarter.
The key leases completed during Q4 include an important mission-critical facility for a local government agency Montgomery County leasing 73 000 square feet for nine years at a slight increase on a cash basis no downtime and a modest refresh improvement allowance averaging $15 per square foot.
This cluster’s trending at a vacancy rate of 7% and if we experience reasonable demand again during 2013 we believe we can continue to incrementally improve our occupancy and rental metrics.
Also it’s important to note the details of the 70 000 foot lease in this market that negatively impacted our cash results overall this quarter.
This facility is ultimately a core holding and we now have a long-term lease through the end of 2021 and although it did have a cash rent roll down it only required a very modest investment of $5 per square foot in tenant improvements.
So all things considered a worthwhile trade-off as this helps stabilize the portfolio going forward.
Moving over to San Diego the regional team leased a total of 354 933 square feet during 2012 including the lease of a little more than 76 000 square feet during Q4.
When you step back and realize the operating asset base has grown significantly year-over-year from a little over 2 million square feet to 2.7 million square feet this represents a remarkable 34% increase nearly all of which is represented by new class A facilities with creditworthy tenants.
Occupancy is a solid 95.1% in this past quarter.
We were pleased to partner with Genomatica one of the rising stars in the industrial biotechnology industry on long-term lease of 10 years for 68 000 square feet during Q4.
The majority of the tenant prospect activity continues to be in the Torrey Pines and UTC submarkets as the flight to quality continues in this strong market.
The overall market vacancy has increased slightly by 80 basis points from 9.3% to 10.1% compared with the prior year largely as a result of one project that has been placed on the market by a non-life science developer.
So it remains to be seen if it will represent significant competition.
Moving north to the Bay Area we leased a total of 592 000 square feet during 2012 and 78 000 square feet of this total during Q4.
Occupancy increased 110 basis points from 96.7% to 96% – 97.8% during the year.
The Q4 leases were highlighted by a broad set of renewals in each of the three key submarkets.
The Stanford cluster remains very healthy with a vacancy rate of sub 5% and lease rates in the $30 to $36 triple net range.
Alexandria also congratulates one of its key Stanford cluster anchor tenants Map Pharmaceuticals and its recent acquisition by Allergan a $32 billion New York Stock Exchange traded company.
Map will continue operating in our facility in the Stanford cluster and Allergan presence will surely bolster the overall strength of the cluster as well.
The South San Francisco cluster is a tale of two cities ultimately.
The overall vacancy rate is certainly high at 11.9% but as you drill down and segment the market the vacancy rate for the moderate to small-size suites is just 2.4% and this is exactly where we focused our efforts and have been successful.
translational and clinical operations and information technology companies.
UCSF has an RFQ/RFP on the street for a 300 000 square foot consolidation of its Laurel Heights campus and Meraki’s recent establishment of a 110 000 square foot headquarters in Mission Bay and subsequent acquisition by Cisco clearly validates this location as desirable for the tech sector which continues its boom as we’re tracking 2 million to 3 million square feet of demand.
Rental rates have risen to the mid-to-high $50s industrial gross in SoMa and Market Street corridor and higher for new build-to-suit projects.
The 499 Illinois project is directly benefiting from these positive market dynamics.
We are pleased that discussions are progressing in a serious manner with potential anchor tenants ranging from 80 000 to 120 000 square feet in each of these market segments.
Specifically we’ve had a number of tours and meetings with senior teams of a few key tenant prospects and are now progressing to test fits of interior improvements with engineering and facility teams.
The response to both the testimonials from key leaders and the Mission Bay cluster in these meetings and the detailed set of cutting-edge amenities we’ve designed and plan to build featuring enhanced collaborations spaces has been very positive as well.
As Joel mentioned let me go ahead and touch on yields in this market and others for a moment.
As investors really should take comfort in the solid yields we delivered recently in Cambridge and San Diego and the South San Francisco market as well notably the East Grand facility in the 8.5% range and the anticipation of delivering within our yield range of mid-6% at the 499 facility.
This is a contrast for a number of the tech sector projects in SoMa reported to be in the 6% range as indicated by other leading REITs.
So important to note these projects are being delivered at attractive yields in today’s market and often times with longer leases and higher credit quality than the tech factor.
At North Carolina and Seattle we leased 237 000 square feet during 2012 in North Carolina including 19 000 feet in Q4 and 124 000 square feet during 2012 in Seattle.
North Carolina’s occupancy increased 120 basis points from 94.3% to 95.5% this past year and we anticipate fresh demand in early 2013 will continue to improve those metrics.
Seattle’s occupancy dipped from 96.7% to 93.9% year-over-year substantially impacted by new vacancy in one facility where we’ve had encouraging momentum and anticipate a positive outcome over the next couple of quarters.
So let me look forward for a bit and the status of the 2013 roles.
We have approximately 1.1 million square feet or 7.9% of our operating properties slated for rollover during 2013 and consider it very manageable.
8% of that or 89 000 square feet are leased; 21% or 235 000 square feet are in active negotiations; 16% or 176 000 square feet is targeted for redevelopment.
And that’s comprised entirely of a non-lab acquisition that we closed during 2012 in our San Diego market located at a AAA Torrey Pines location.
And then finally we have 55% or 620 000 square feet in early discussions in marketing.
Let’s go ahead and review that 620 000 square feet in greater detail by each region.
105 000 square feet in the Greater Boston market has 60% of the space located in Cambridge and the adjacent urban markets.
Nearly half of this square footage is rolling in November and December of 2013.
The lab suites are in a very nice size range of 4 000 to 12 000 square feet which are very desirable in today’s market.
So we’re encouraged with our prospects there for the year.
205 000 square feet is located in the San Francisco Bay Area market.
We’ve got a set of two buildings comprising 21 000 square feet in the Stanford Research Park.
It’s well-positioned for a variety of life science or clean tech tenants and another 14 000 square foot suite in the Stanford cluster is in the marketing phase.
We’re also in early discussions with the existing tenants for nearly 85% of the 100 000 square feet distributed across a set of small to moderate-sized suites located in the greater South San Francisco market.
And finally about 60 000 square feet located in the Mission Bay cluster in a number of high-quality moderate-sized lab suites and early discussions are going well with existing tenants.
Moving south.
We have 135 000 square feet in the San Diego market primarily in the Sorrento Valley and Sorrento Mesa markets.
The two largest blocks comprising a little less than half are about a 50 000 square foot chunk should provide a favorable outcome with an existing tenant discussion and the remainder we’re evaluating the potential for placing about 62 000 square feet on the market for sale as leases roll during 2013.
We have 101 000 square feet in the Maryland market distributed across each of their submarkets.
We’ve ultimately sold and exited the properties that we discussed earlier that contained 47 000 square feet of these roles as part of our asset recycling plan.
And we’re working with an existing tenant in the early stages for 38 000 feet and actively we’re marketing the remainder of those suites.
Finally 52 000 square feet in the Southeast market.
We’re in early discussions with tenants to resolve all 30 000 square feet we have in North Carolina and we’re actively marketing the remaining 20 000 square feet to new prospects.
And just 7 000 square feet in Seattle with the largest suite rolling in December; so we’re in very good shape there.
So in conclusion the company really delivered on solid leasing results during 2012 and although the second half of the year did not have the same volume as leasing as the first half the overall trend is certainly positive as the operating portfolio occupancy has improved this past quarter by 40 basis points from 94.2% to 94.6% and improved 160 basis points from 90% to 91.6% when you include the redevelopment assets.
We have a manageable set of rollovers during 2013 and are poised for meaningful progress and lease-up of properties in the redevelopment and development pipeline.
And finally we have continued momentum on the build to-suit front in our key markets as we’re engaged in ongoing discussions with existing tenant/clients and a new tenant product – prospect for establishing new Class-A facilities in our triple net locations.
I’ll hand it off to Dean for further commentary.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
We reported FFO of $1.16 per share diluted as adjusted for the fourth quarter.
Our FFO per share results are in line with our range for guidance provided on Investor Day in December of 2011.
Moving on to our core operating metrics we had significant success with the execution of the significant growth NOI from development and redevelopment deliveries.
Fourth quarter NOI from continuing operations of $107.5 million was up 6.6% over the third quarter and up 10.1% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
In 2012 we completed approximately $1.1 million rentable square feet of value-added development and redevelopment projects aggregating almost $700 million at an average GAAP yield around 8%.
Approximately 60% of this was completed and delivered at the very beginning of the fourth quarter of 2012.
Same-property performance for the fourth quarter it really was the third consecutive quarter of an upward trend in cash same-property performance.
The fourth quarter of 2012 cash same-property NOI growth of 6.3% up over the solid third quarter 2012 cash same-property NOI growth of 4.3%.
We projected the strength of our cash same-property performance continues into 2013.
Our projection for 2013 cash same-property performance is up from 4% to 7% over 2012.
2012 cash same-property performance of being up 3.5% in particular the East Tower in New York City drove about $10 million increase in cash rents and our build-to-suit-it for Onyx at 259 East Grand in South San Francisco drove about $1 million increase.
There were some offsetting increases resulting in a decrease in some cash rents.
Primarily in greater Boston we took some temporary downtime to transition space at 300 Technology Square and 790 Memorial Drive during 2012.
These spaces were delivered a few months after rollover in the year and will contribute to increases in cash same-property performance in 2013.
Suburban Washington D.C.
we had about 100 000 square foot amount of space that rolled in the second quarter at Virginia Manor with a drop in occupancy to about 42% as of June 30.
We have leased a portion of this space in the second half of the year and increased occupancy to approximately 56%.
Same-property operating expenses for the fourth quarter were up 8% over the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily related to an aggregate increase of approximately $2.6 million in recoverable taxes and repairs and maintenance expenses.
The increases in property taxes were related to recently completed construction projects.
The same-property operating expenses for the year were up about 3.9% over 2011.
The increases in same-property operating expense were primarily related to an increase in recoverable repairs and maintenance by approximately $2.6 million.
Excluding this $2.6 million increase in repairs and maintenance same-property operating expenses would have been up about 1.7% when compared to 2011.
Before we move onto balance sheet milestones and strategy let me briefly comment on certain important preconstruction activities.
During the quarter we commenced preconstruction activities for certain land parcels in order to reduce the time to deliver product to prospective tenants.
For example we are advancing entitlement efforts at Campus Pointe for expansion capacity on the site.
Additionally at Illumina Way we are advancing efforts to increase entitlements and adjusting the designs for both building six and building seven for the additional entitlements.
Moving onto balance sheet matters.
During the year we executed our capital strategy and proved that we have access to diverse sources of capital that we believe is strategically important to our long-term capital structure.
These sources of capital included real estate asset sales secured construction project financing an unsecured line of credit unsecured notes payable joint venture capital preferred stock and common stock issued through our at-the-market common stock offering program.
It is also important to note that we completed approximately $577 million of construction in 2012 limited our issuance of equity capital to $98 million and ended the year relatively leverage neutral at 7.3 times on a debt to EBITDA basis.
In 2013 our balance sheet goals include execution of our capital recycling program for investment into high-value Class-A urban assets continue to minimize the use of common equity capital and lower our debt-to-EBITDA to approximately 6.5 times.
At a very high level let me provide an overview of our strategy for key components of our sources and uses of capital.
Keep in mind that this is high-level and capital is fungible between the two buckets I’m going to describe but this should provide a better understanding of our capital strategy for 2013.
and this includes the $84 million of sales that we completed to-date in 2013; and lastly $150 million of common equity proceeds under our ATM program.
The other key bucket will focus on our goal to reduce leverage from approximately 7.3 times as of 12/31/12 to about 6.5 times by the end of 2013.
The key sources that will allow us to achieve our leverage goal includes a combination of EBITDA growth and a portion of the excess capital from the first bucket which is 100% leased to Biogen Idec; a portion of the space at 430 East 29th Street in New York City which is the West Tower related to our lease with Roche and keep in mind that this delivery in particular is very close to the end of the year; and then lastly almost all of our redevelopment projects and again these projects have significant pre-releasing.
Moving on to asset sales.
A very big picture here I think we hit our target for 2012.
I think the challenge here from time-to-time is making an estimate of the timing of closing transactions is always a bit tricky to predict but we completed $84 million of the sales in 2013 bringing our total sales since January 1 2012 to $159 million.
Our original 2013 asset sales target was $300 million and we had about $77 million rollover from December of 2012 and deferred into 2013 for an aggregate of $377 million now targeted for 2013.
We have made progress since Investor Day in December as follows: $84 million in sales completed to-date in 2013; we have about $55 million under contract; we have about another $140 million at various stages including letters of intent early negotiations; and lastly preparation of marketing packages.
Included in this $140 million is our targeted partial sale of an interest in a land parcel related to the 50%/50% joint venture for 75/125 Binney.
And lastly $98 million that remains which we’ll identify in the next quarter or two.
Moving briefly on to unsecured bonds.
I just want to point out that we’re unable to comment on the timing of our bond offering since it will subject to market conditions but let me provide some color.
Given the continuing positive environment and low interest rate outlook we expect to issue unsecured notes in 2013.
Our strategy remains focused on 10-year bonds given attractive pricing for longer tenured paper and our desire to both expand and ladder our maturities.
Tenured treasuries are hovering around 2% and spreads have tightened.
So 10-year bonds today for Alexandria should be inside of 4%.
Again specific pricing for Alexandria will be at market when we execute our transaction.
Lastly as well an increased pace of leasing.
Additionally the increase reflects important preconstruction activities related to entitlement are designed for expansion opportunities related to a few campus locations.
As a reminder our goal with these preconstruction efforts is to reduce the time to deliver ground-up development projects to prospective tenants.
Our guidance for 2013 somewhere in the 60% loan-to-cost range; the transfer of a 50% interest to a JV Partner; and our capital investment in the range of $40 million to $50 million all of which we expect to be funded in 2013.
Lastly disclosure of detail assumptions included in our overall guidance was disclosed beginning on Page 7 of our press release.
With that I’ll turn it back to Joel.
Okay operator we – we’ll take questions now please.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Thank you.
So I know you guys spent a good deal of time talking about yields and comparing yields to office on the call.
I guess where – what investors might be trying to get their head around is the portion of your total investment that goes to the lab space build-out.
How to underwrite that or how you guys think about underwriting that and the return on that versus kind of your core and shell office building? Maybe if you give us a sense of how you guys – when you look at acquisitions or even development how you think about the relative investment and those two pieces of your cost structure.
Well if the question – Jamie is the question presume that somehow the above-standard improvement from office somehow is not valuable for the long-term? Could you expand upon your question? Because obviously the return is the overall return of the project it’s not segmented core and shell versus improvements.
But if we have a build-to-suit generally they tend to be 10-year 15 20-year leases.
These are yields that – and the yields that – I think it’s important to note these are initial stabilized deals so these don’t include all the increases over time which I think investors and analysts often overlook as well but these are yields on the full package.
Yeah I guess one way I could answer it Jamie – it’s Peter Moglia – is that when we do look at pricing build-to-suits we do have a lower expectation for return on the core and shell and the TIs that are infrastructure 40-year type of duration.
And then we price the TIs that we think may not recycle as well or for as long at a higher rate to blend into a total that we believe is above what exit cap rates would be at the time.
So the parts of the piece that doesn’t recycle as long – how do you think about the duration? Or how long those last? Or do you assume that those only last as long as the lease? Well I would say that we would – we amortize that the majority of that into the term of the lease.
So if it’s a 10-year lease we’re getting that back in 10 years.
Right and Jamie I think it’s constructive.
I mean a couple anecdotes we mentioned Novartis renewing the lease there in Tech Square.
There were no TI dollars; the one down in Maryland were $5 a foot.
We had a large one in South San Francisco a year or so ago it had been leased for 10 years.
We had a 10-year renewal and I think we had a $15 to $20 a foot tenant improvement allowance there.
So – in the overall cost per square foot of these facilities it’s fairly nominal.
And then can you just give us a sense of where market rents are across your major markets? And whether you’re seeing any material growth at this point? Yeah I think in the Cambridge market we’ve got very solid support as we talked about in the mid-$50s triple net for existing product.
So I think we’re doing well there.
Non-build to suit.
Right non-build to suit absolutely that’s existing product and again as we talked about build-to-suit’s significantly higher.
So there is certainly is a step function as these companies – we’ve talked about this a lot and we’ve seen improve out now with Onyx with ARIAD as they’re looking to aggregate around a campus to build a company for the next 10 or 15 years they’re really driven to this build-to-suit type of product and they’re absolutely willing to pay for that step-up in rent from the existing product that’s out there.
Moving across the markets we think Torrey-Pines has certainly stabilized in that mid-$30s triple net range South San Francisco again segmenting the large blocks of space from the small space similarly low to mid-$30s triple net.
Yeah I could just comment on Seattle.
Seattle has remained a very high-rental environment even though the activity hasn’t been strong as it was maybe two or three years ago but their rents are between $45 and $52 for the Class-A space.
Maryland has – it experienced a drop over the last couple of years but we’re encouraged by the fact that we’re now quoting things in the mid-to-high $20s and getting a lot of traction with that.
And then in Research Triangle Park things for the first class space is also similar to Maryland in the $25 to $30 range.
And then in New York which obviously Joel commented on is very high-cost environment we’re able to translate that to very high rents.
And without giving too much away I would say that we are in the mid-to-high-$70s to low $80s for our projections for the West Tower.
Okay.
And then finally just any thoughts on sequestration and what do you think it might be in to your leasing? Any expected slowdown? Yeah I think – I mean my own personal view is that it’s likely to happen it may not last for a prolonged period of time.
We know just through my work at the NIH and others that there’s no one on either side of the aisle as well as the Executive branch that wants the NIH budget cut so we think a deal will be made post-sequestration as part of another budget package.
I think the only area that we see it impacting is really the institutional side because the institutions are the ones that get direct grants from the NIH.
The pharma and bio side zero impact to those guys by and large.
But I think a project like Longwood or projects where you’d be looking primarily at an institutional base a 501(c)(3) through university or research those are the ones that would be on pause until that sequestration is resolved.
But my guess is it will be resolved by June 30 if not sooner in a positive fashion.
So when you think about your expiration schedule is there anything there that might be slow to renew based on...
We have one roll of about 60 000 with a GSA lease in one of our markets and we expect to renew that and – because it’s mission critical – we’ve been told that.
And as far as bigger leases I think we’ve said before the only lease we have that really is heavily dependent on NIH is a lease in – rolling in 2016 with the Scripps Research Institute which is the largest non-profit in the U.S.
but there’s no near-term lease exposure to that that’s 2016.
Other than that we have nothing coming up in 2013.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks Jamie.
Our next question is from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey there.
Just in terms of the income producing assets that you’ve sold recently where your GAAP yields are sort of above 15% and I assume the cash yields are actually higher than that as well I guess my question is how many of these properties are there in the portfolio that are in the suburban (inaudible) markets? Lab space might not be viable long-term and the rent’s very high can you just give us sort of a sense of how many more of these assets there are? Well first of all let me may be correct your view.
When you sell an asset – and Peter’s the one that’s handled that and can give you chapter in verse – it’s really a mischaracterization and a misnomer to characterize this as being sold at some GAAP yields.
Those were ramps that were produced in the past and in the Columbia – 1124 Columbia we had already removed one of the key anchors and move them down to South Lake Union.
Another tenant we didn’t choose to underwrite moved to another landlord.
And then another tenant chose to elect an early termination.
So if you talk about a GAAP yield on that project of 15% or 17% it makes no sense.
It’s really on a per square foot basis and it really is on a – on the buyer looking out what you can pay for repurposing that.
So that’s how you have to look at it.
And Peter will talk more about – we don’t have too many of those in the portfolio on a value basis but it is pretty different.
Same thing on West Watkins; we had almost 60 000 square feet that’s rolling this year.
We have another building that the tenant is likely to exit which is the main anchor there in a couple of years.
So again you can’t look at it as we’re investing in it on a yield or you are selling on a yield basis.
But Peter.
Yeah thanks Joel I guess Quentin to give you an example of that 1124 Columbia building may show as a – I don’t know – 15% GAAP yield or something like that right now.
But after these tenants exit I think that would go down to a 3% and you’d be holding an asset in a market that is just not in favor with lab tenants anymore and its highest and best use is really medical office.
So I think there was a really good marriage between us and the buyer where we were able to cash out of an asset.
They did really well for us for a long period of time but no longer was needed.
We could take that cash and put it into higher earning investments.
Yeah let me just say this about that asset.
We bought that in 1996 with zero down the yield on the original sale leaseback to the Fred Hutch was something in the range of 10% to 11% and that asset has cash flowed and had been very very accretive to this portfolio.
And now we’re at a position where that market as Peter said has gone totally MOB and hospital.
So again look at it for what it is not for maybe some theoretical cash flow.
But do you want to talk about other exposures? Yeah and a little more color on the 1201 Clopper asset as Joel alluded to we have a tenant in a couple of years that has told us that they’re – they’ve told us that they’re moving out.
They have their own campus already in another other part of the I-270 corridor there and their plan was to move.
So that building is quite big.
I think it’s somewhere in the neighborhood of about 140 000 square feet and it’s also a mix of office warehouse and lab.
And we took a look at that strategically and said: this is Gaithersburg it’s not Rockville which is really the place where people want to be these days; do we really want to sink a large amount of capital into re-tenanting that building? And the answer was: no it didn’t make sense.
So we found a buyer who was really willing to put in the work and the capital to reposition it.
And again I think that was a good marriage between us and them and we got a fair price for the income that’s left on it.
So to talk about what’s remaining and we do have a few assets across the portfolio some in San Diego that we’ve identified that have very similar attributes there.
They were great performers for a while but the market has really moved into more high-quality areas.
So I don’t know if I want to disclose too much more than that but suburban Pennsylvania’s another area where maybe some of the assets have longer-term leases than maybe rolling in the next two years.
But down the road we don’t really want to own those assets anymore.
It’s just not a market that we want to be invested.
So we’re looking at potentially disposing of those as well.
Yeah but as a percentage of GAV it’s pretty minor.
Okay.
But for the non-income producing assets – sorry for the income-producing assets that you’re looking at selling this year should we expect to see similar yields to what you’ve done? Or a little bit lower? Well again....
Yeah I mean I guess it depends on what yield you’re looking at.
I mean we haven’t announced – we have disclosed held-for-sale in Worcester a portfolio we have there.
Yeah there’s only – the two assets we sold in 2013 one was actually the asset that was held-for-sale as of year-end.
One of the assets did not meet the qualifications for held-for-sale as of year-end so it was actually not in the discontinued operations numbers.
The asset that Peter’s referring to there is a third asset that’s in the Q to be sold in the first quarter.
That asset’s also a component of the fourth quarter discontinued operation information.
So whether it’s the revenue or the NOI that you see in the supplemental package you kind of could get a sense for the income estimates off of that project.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the proposed joint venture on Binney Street if I’m reading it correctly it looks like you’re selling it and effectively where your partner would get an 8% development yield.
Obviously they’re going to take some leasing risk with that given you’re not fully leased but is there some – can you maybe just talk about the fees? I’m not sure if there is some kind of promote or something in there? Yeah.
Quentin this is Peter Moglia.
We’re still in early discussions with a number of parties.
I – it’s just not smart for us to disclose any specific details with those negotiations at this time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yep.
Thank you very much.
Next question is from Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Yes Joel I was wondering on the joint venture is that something we can extrapolate the pricing there to land value in Cambridge? Was it negotiated based on a certain land value? Well again we haven’t – we haven’t had a handshake or concluded any joint venture.
We’re actually aggressively pursuing the construction financing first because that provides valuable piece of the puzzle.
So I think it wouldn’t be useful for us to comment on any of the broad terms we’ve had broad discussions with.
We just haven’t been that – we aren’t that far along.
We’re really focused on – we’ve had discussions with a number of partners and structures and things like that but we’re really waiting to get the construction financing in place ASAP.
Okay and then....
So bear with us for a quarter or so.
Sure.
And then on East Jamie Court and East Grand Avenue the yields moved higher.
I was just wondering if you could walkthrough what was – what were the drivers of the revisions there? Yeah I think Sheila on East Grand ultimately the team on the ground did a great job of buying out the project and that combined with Onyx really wanting to occupy as soon as they possibly could so we accelerated they’re delivery; so that helped.
And then at East Jamie Court we were just more successful than we had been projecting.
Again we talked about that smaller segment having a lower vacancy rate in the market so we were fortunate to capture a few tenants and really beat what were conservative projections.
Okay.
And then Joel you did mention in your remarks earlier that there were some assets coming for sale.
I’m just wondering if you – if there’s something of interest to you? Or how you’re viewing acquisition opportunities at this point? Yeah we’ve modeled none but there are in one market or another assets we know that are being positioned for sale.
We’re certainly looking at a few as we speak.
We don’t have any huge motivation one way or another but obviously if something was superbly fascinating to us and one where we thought we could create value and deliver a product that fit into that submarket in a smart way we would potentially pursue it.
But I would say we’re looking more than we’re aggressively pursuing.
Okay.
And then just on New York Tower LOIs do you – are they like – do you consider them highly probable? Or the ones that get you to 54%? Yeah.
About half are from existing tenants and I would say those are highly probable.
So out of the seven floors let’s say more than half – four floors or more are from existing tenants.
So we think those are highly probable and the others are new tenants but we have strong relationships.
And I think it’s hard to always characterize and you say something and the Street assumes you have it.
So I would say 50%-50% but my personal view is it’s higher than that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks Sheila.
Next question is from George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Thank you.
Joel or Dean have you guys touched yet on the seller financing of the assets sales the $39 million.
Have we touched on it? We just briefly mentioned it.
Peter can talk to you about it; he negotiated it.
I think $29 million of that was associated with the 1124 Columbia sale.
Remember that the – well maybe – you may not know but the buyer is repositioning that.
So in order to maximize the value they were looking for a loan that could bridge them through the entitlement process in the beginning of construction.
So that’s a short duration loan; I think it’s a couple years where they’ll be paying us I think they have an option to extend it for one year after that.
And then there was another $9 million loan associated with the $40-something million West Watkins/Clopper deal which was part of the negotiation to maximize our proceeds.
I guess can you just touch on the rate on those loans? And then I guess just kind of stepping back what is the FFO contribution of those loans? Just trying to figure – I know guidance ticked up by $0.04 – just wondering what impact the seller financing had on FFO this year? Actually the seller financing had no impact.
What really drove the change in our guidance was driven twofold: one our improved outlook on occupancy and leasing in 2013 which was driving improved NOI; and then a little bit of the entitlement efforts which I described to really advance opportunities for prospective tenants in certain campus locations.
But going back to your rate question George we haven’t disclosed that publicly but just keep in mind the low-rate environment; it’s fairly consistent with what you would expect.
Okay.
And I guess Dean can you maybe talk about same-store NOI growth in the fourth quarter in 2012.
It seems like the New York lease kind of especially in the fourth quarter had a disproportionate impact? Do you have those numbers excluding New York? I don’t.
That was actually same-store performance for the entire year.
I don’t have that breakdown George but I can come back to you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question is from Dave Rodgers with Robert Baird.
Please go ahead with your question.
Joel during your comments and Steve’s as well I think you both talked about negotiations leasing backlog RFPs RFQs that you’re seeing out in the market.
Have you – I didn’t hear you present the information – but have you aggregated that total of kind of what the backlog is that you’re looking at today? If not can you? And I guess maybe to componentize that a little bit how much of that is related to existing assets that you think you’d have a shot at filling? Versus how much of that would be related to redevelopment or ground-up development where you’d have to spend money on? That’s a – maybe try to restate your question in a more compartmentalized fashion so we can try to take it in bite size pieces that’s a pretty broad question.
What’s the total leasing backlog that you’re looking at today? I’m not sure what you mean by leasing backlog but let’s put it this way we’re seeing stronger leasing in – strangely enough – in some of the suburban markets than we’ve imagined or seen over the past year or two which has been I’d say significantly more than we assumed.
I think we’ve got pretty conservative assumptions on some of our existing space when those things would be speculatively filled.
And we’re seeing the – a more rapid conversion of requirements in the leases than we planned in our internal model.
But I don’t know that – we track by market and submarket not overall.
We don’t really roll it up because it doesn’t mean anything rolled up because rents in North Carolina could be $15 a foot and rents in Boston could be $65 so it’s a little hard to say but if you want to be market specific we could be responsive.
Excuse me maybe not now but again the thought was just kind of getting to – it seems like a lot of your activity has been in the last couple of quarters development related are you continuing to see that? You kind of commented on that during the commentary...
Well I think it’s – yeah I think it’s broader – much broader than development related...
(Inaudible).
Yeah I think it’s much broader than development related.
I mean I can think of spaces that we’ve had – we have kind of what we call chronic leasing or chronic vacancy spaces that we’ve just seen stay vacant for periods of time.
We have one space that’s been vacant for quite a while in the Greater Boston market that’s now just been – just been leased I think this quarter to an institutional tenant that we haven’t had activity for three or four years on it.
It’s not part of Cambridge but we’re starting to see that happen in quite a number of locations with spaces that have been hard to lease and we’re getting really good – good results.
So that’s been surprising to us.
And then a second question I guess related to the joint venture you talked about with ARIAD and I realize it’s not done you’re still negotiating it.
Maybe just step back and say why did you elect to go – or why are you electing to at least pursue that type of a funding for that asset versus maybe what you might do with the Biogen development that you have ongoing as well? Well our preference would be do it all ourselves but we’re mindful of – and we haven’t made final determinations – but we’re certainly moving down a road here.
But our goal to meet our debt to adjusted EBITDA target of 6.5x this year.
So that’s part of the overall plan and that’s been driving our thinking now.
Thank you.
Yeah I – this is Peter.
I’d just comment too I mean versus the Biogen Idec campus.
I mean this is a development that still had some leasing risk associated with it so it just makes a little bit more sense to do a JV structure where you have some more risk involved than the Biogen Idec deal.
Hey Dave before you jump into your next question let me just get back to George’s question about fourth quarter same-property performance on a cash basis as reported was 6.3%.
If we were to back out the benefit from cash rent improvements at New York City cash same-property performance for the fourth quarter would have been 3.7%.
So it’s roughly a couple million dollar cash improvement in New York for the fourth quarter.
Dave did we – were we responsive to your questions? Yeah I’m all set.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Next question is from Jeff Theiler with Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Just a quick one regarding 499 Illinois it sounded from your commentary that – at least it sounded like interest has really turned a corner.
You’re getting a lot more inquiries.
Is that in your opinion just a function of we’re getting closer to UCSF opening? Or is there something else going on there that’s driving traffic? I think it’s really a combination of things.
I think the overall market dynamics as we’ve outlined in the second-half of 2012 have really pointed in our direction.
There’s a lessening existing supply of space in SoMa for tech companies.
With Meraki and Cisco coming down to Mission Bay I think that’s clearly validated Mission Bay as a technology sector location.
So that’s certainly been positive.
And then ultimately we had a bit of a bit of a pause in the life science activity during 2012 and historically it’s been relatively consistent.
So I think we’re just seeing that consistent demand re-emerge and it’s really from both sectors: it’s life science companies it’s institution it’s the translational research and clinical elements as well.
So that – and that’s not only UCSF for sure but as they continue to advance on that medical center and really the campus has nearly built out there which is why they’ve got this RFP on the street it’s just very clear that there is a diminishing supply of product available.
Yeah.
And so would you expect just in regards to UCSF would you expect that peak demand coming concurrently with the completion and the opening? Or is there a time lag that happens after that? Or do you get demand coming ahead of it? Where would you kind of put the peak? I think it’ll be starting this year and it’ll continue through the time period that the medical center opens.
There’s a clear effort to consolidate in and around Mission Bay.
The Chancellor’s building is now broken ground so that is clearly the power center for UCSF right there at the corner of 16th Street and 3rd Street.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we have a follow up from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Please go ahead with your follow up.
Hey good afternoon.
It’s Michael Bilerman speaking.
I just wanted to come back to sort of the asset sales that are planned in July.
We completely understand and appreciate that under-leased and underutilized assets and assets that go through changes in dynamics can’t really look at them on a cap rate basis.
But I think the other side of it is that income is being lost from the company right? You take the two sales that happened the beginning of the year the $84 million you are losing $15 million of GAAP NOI; that’s coming out of the P&amp;L.
Yeah.
But some of it was coming out anyway because of either lease rolling out or termination of leases.
So a chunk of it I don’t have it in front of me but...
No no no right.
We know whether it’s going to come out or not but I think you have to appreciate from an investor and analyst perspective that we have to understand that on your NOI stream how much of that would be at risk from potential assets that if someone was capping your NOI and capping this NOI at a cap rate okay – so they would be putting a cap rate on that $15 million – they would have come out with a much different value than what ultimately you sold on the assets.
So maybe I can ask it in a different way.
If we look at the sales of income-producing assets that are scheduled for the rest of the year which is about just under $100 million what is the current NOI stream for those assets? I.e.
how much NOI needs to come out once we sell those assets for $100 million? Give us one second.
Yeah.
So I’m going to see how much; I’m looking for the breakdown.
Well about more than half of that Michael I think Dean had in his remarks about $50 million or $60 million are targeted for three assets in San Diego all of which go dark and are in our lease rolls today.
So that’s going away no matter what but we can try to...
But I assume that’s not in your same store guidance that we need to figure out some way to take that out from an NOI stream to be able to get to the numbers.
So arguably I understand that selling these assets they serve a different purpose and they’re great to do and it’s cleaning up the portfolio and all the other benefits that we think are good but at the same time we have to make sure that we’re stripping out the right amount of NOI for the sales.
Yep.
Yeah so Michael I’m sorry I just got the schedules as you can imagine $377 million projected I wanted to be sure I looked carefully at the breakdown to answer your question.
But only the income-producing...
Yeah so on the income-producing the only other sale that’s been identified is the one we referenced on the call.
So – so we completed $84 million there is roughly something in the $40 million range that’s closing here shortly in the quarter.
And outside of that I think there’s another $18 million to meet our bogey.
So it’s a small number.
That asset has not been identified so I can’t give you a yield today in the sense.
So it’s small and I don’t expect -all this information’s included in our guidance included in same store.
I don’t have that particular yield assumption in front of me at the moment but on $18 million it’s not a big assumption.
Right.
Well and I guess maybe the other way to look at it is there a way to sort of parcel out if you were to sort of look at the NOI stream today sort of calling it on an annualized basis the $430 million what percentage of that income do you view within this bucket of – is it $10 million is it $20 million where we should be really treating that on a price per pound basis rather than a cap rate basis? Understanding that $15 million right was – that represented almost 3.5% of NOI but a much much lower percentage of NAV.
Yeah and I hate to ask you to do this Michael I missed the first part of your question.
Like I say if your annualized NOI stream is $430 million how much of that NOI stream is tied up in assets where you see this risk is there? Is it effectively done? I mean the two assets you sold again produced $15 million of GAAP NOI that’s 3.5% of the NOI stream where the value would’ve been very different if you put a cap rate on it versus valuing it on a price per pound basis? Yeah I don’t – Michael you’re talking about our overall asset base and if I think through we don’t have anything specifically identified that falls into this category that we’re looking to monetize at the moment.
We have one asset in the Worcester market out in suburbs of Boston that we’ve identified and those are in our disclosures.
I think that was disclosed in the fourth quarter as a component of one of the targeted sales in December.
Okay.
All right...
So beyond that...
So maybe to put book ends around that we think that in the broad – if we looked at all the assets that we would want to dispose of today – that we could dispose of today that we haven’t identified but that we kind of have an idea about that number would be somewhere in the $5 million to $7 million range of NOI...
Great.
And then just coming back to New York for the construction cost of $1 100 a foot for the second Tower...
Yep.
Yep.
Can you break that out of how much was – and understanding that I know we went through the Great Recession you have to carry the land – well not the land because there’s the ground lease.
But you have to carry I guess the materials for a little while longer how much of that represented – how much of the $1 100 is capitalized costs? And maybe you can break out the components because it does seem like a high number especially the fact that there’s no land basis? Well we can maybe do that off line.
I don’t – we’d have to look at it.
Clearly you’ve got the superstructure the infrastructure which is expensive you’ve got all the steel and curtain wall that we bought back in I think 2007 when we kicked off that building.
You’ve got obviously the carry issue described.
We’ve got obviously a budget for finishes et cetera.
But I think it’s wise not to get too obsessively and compulsively focused on the costs but look at the number on the rent that Peter gave.
If you’re getting $70 or $80 triple net 10-year 15 20-year leases with 3% escalations and you’re getting a yield we think will be ultimately north of 6.5% in a triple A class-A asset in New York I don’t know of any deal we could do in New York City today by way of acquisition or development that could equal those yields Michael.
So I think put that into perspective.
We’ll try offline to get you somewhat of a segmented breakdown on costs; we don’t have it with us...
Right.
I’m also just trying to reconcile a little bit.
I mean you’ve been in this project for a long time I would think that the yields that most people and that you’ve talked about on the prior calls – we can dig up the transcripts – I’m not trying to say that 6.5% close to 7% is not good today it is but the yields that have been talked about previously about this project especially about the second phase of the project which was supposed to benefit from a lot of the infrastructure costs being layered to the first tower were much higher.
And so I’m just trying to understand what changed? Because the rental market’s certainly come back and the rents are there.
So it has to have been on the cost side and I’m just trying to understand what part of the cost? Was it the capitalization piece? Because you obviously are capitalizing a lot on other projects so I’m trying to think about whether we need to be mindful of that.
And just what sort of change in the dynamics from when you first sort of thought about this project and it was going to be a high single-digit yield to where it’s ending up today? Well I think when we started this project in 2005 2006 and 2007 our view of the market pre-Lehman was quite different.
And obviously we had never built in New York.
And I don’t think we ever gave – you could go check the transcripts – I don’t remember giving specific yields because we had no rental rates at that time.
But I know over the last couple of quarters I think I personally said both in meetings and publicly I’ve said we think it’s probably in the mid-6%s.
That’s a number I’ve been using publicly for quite a number of quarters.
And I think the numbers as they finally come out through our finance group are pretty consistent with that.
So – but if you go back five or more years and our hopes on the project I’m sure hopes were in 2006 and 2007 in the mid to high-single digits but those were only hopes certainly no details behind that.
So I think that’s how we thought about it over post-Lehman.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yep thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn it back to Joel Marcus for closing remarks.
Again thank you very much for your time and we’ll look forward to talking to you on the first quarter call and again Happy New Year to you all.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Aran and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
You may begin ma’am.
Thank you good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Paula and welcome everybody.
We’ll try to be somewhat shortened format hopefully we leave more time for Q&amp;A and efficiency on a busy earnings day.
Starting on the macro we’re obviously fortunate that ARE have the very good business with the highest quality team Class A assets cluster hub locations really world class tenants and I hope that continuing really great disclosure.
We’re blessed to have significant opportunities to grow in our core CBD cluster markets and luckily don’t need to stray away from world-class locations.
I think it’s fair to say that we have finally achieved the renaissance for life science R&amp;D in the best cluster sub markets where ARE dominates if you read April 29 addition there was a great quote in there let me share it with you we could be witnessing a substantial re-rating where instead of a discount on R&amp;D premium could ultimately be awarded for the potential option value of curing disease and therefore really our focus is and has been bio and pharma in core cluster markets.
Important to note two of that area has only 7% about 7% of ABR exposure to those specific universities and non-profits in the tenants sector which are much more heavily dependant on government financing and we seek to be doing business with those that have large endowments in the center of the clusters.
On internal growth for a moment let me just transition there we had a very solid leasing quarter of almost over 700 000 square feet we’ve only got about 568 000 square feet left to lease in the balance of 2013 on lease rolls and about 309 000 unresolved.
So this is actually pretty minor compared to the usual strong effort is being made to lease up purely vacant space by our first-in-class regional teams and that should positively impact occupancy across all regions both starting in the second quarter and beyond.
On occupancy the trend for the balance of 2013 will clearly be positive.
San Francisco as expected experienced a temporary decline due to some moves but we expect to recover nicely starting in the third San Diego decreased a bit due to some vacancy and newly operating properties but once again our strong domination of the San Diego lab leasing market will move that very positively through the balance of 2013 and we feel very comfortable with our year-end forecast occupancy forecast of 93.9% to 94.3% and certainly hope to beat that.
On the external growth side we have very solid leasing quarter for redevelopments and developments of almost over 450 000 square feet heavily attributable to the area than Onyx leasing.
And we hope that we would like to know an improved disclosure on developments and redevelopment that should make it very clear to follow these projects and visualize the high quality and the details of what we’re doing in those value add programs.
On the development leasing we have signed a 131 000 square foot for fourth floor LOI with the credit tenant at the Alexandria Center for Life Science New York City and several other LOIs are in process.
We actually have quite a number of active prospects probably more than a half dozen who are actively engaged with and heavily interestingly enough coming from both Japan and Europe from Pharma.
We expect to be hopefully close to 50% leased as we head into the summer months.
We expect in the June and July timeframe to have 499 substantially fully leased and resolved so stay tuned.
On the balance sheet and Dean will speak about this a bit.
We’re on target to hit our leverage target by the end of year and we refer you to the details on – are in the press release.
On the expected sales we got $45 million of non-income producing assets under negotiation right now.
$65 million projected from the partial sale into the joint venture from 75/125 Binney which is ongoing and the remainder would be about $125 million coming from additional domestic and potentially favor to internationally of non-income producing assets.
So we think it’s imminently achievable and being highlight the EBITDA on boarding through the end of the year.
On the sales of income producing assets and a recycling program we’re mostly done for 2013 for income producing assets very modest amount for 2014 total NOI loss at a maximum for 2013 2014 the balance would be probably less than $2 million and then we hope we would refer you to land undergoing pre-construction we’ve got some new land and hopefully very helpful disclosure so that over time we can restore the valuation for those great projects that are well deserved and then finally on the dividend side I would expect that the Board would continue to look at sharing increasing cash flow with our shareholders.
So stay tuned on that.
So let me turn it over to Dean.
Okay.
Thank you Joel.
Let me just start with our balance sheet we made good progress in the first quarter and I’d like to provide an update on important initiatives through the remainder of the year.
Cash flows from operating activities after dividends are on track at $130 million to $150 million.
We are basically done with the sale of income producing assets; we completed $124 million in sales in the first quarter.
We have three properties held for sale as of quarter with the net book value of approximately $7 million including about $4 million that was sold in April.
Briefly on our unhedged variable rate debt over the near term we expect our unhedged variable rate debt to range up to approximately 30%.
Our strategy includes having an amount outstanding of unhedged variable rate debt to allow us to opportunistically issue unsecured bonds and repay outstanding unhedged variable rate bank debt.
Moving on briefly to our guidance on our unsecured bond offering clearly our first priority is our 10 year bonds as far as ten year goes to extend our maturity profile and transition variable rate debt to fixed rate debt.
Our pricing for a ten year paper for Alexandria is approximately in the mid 3% range.
And to just give you some other data points seven year paper is a roughly 2.75% for the company.
We expect to prudently manage our maturity profile ten years from now.
So a midpoint target for our ten year unsecured bond offering this year is in the $400 million range.
We will look opportunistically to issue additional unsecured bonds to reduce our unhedged variable rate debt to less than 18%.
As Joe highlighted we remain focused on reducing our leverage to approximately 6.5 times targeted by the end of the year.
The majority of the improvement in leverage will occur in the second half of the year and we expect our EBITDA growth from the first quarter to the fourth quarter to range from $10 million to $13 million.
Moving on to our construction forecast for 2013 you probably noticed it’s up about $25 million at the midpoint.
Our current range is $570 million to $620 million $13 million of the increase related to the commencement of our build-to-suite for Onyx Pharmaceuticals at 269 East Grand.
And we also add about $10 million increase attributed to the timing of construction and the completion of our joint venture transaction for the project for ARIAD Pharmaceuticals at 75/125 Binney Street.
Briefly to update on two construction loans we have in process the first is for 269 East Grand the project for Onyx Pharmaceutical.
We expect the closing to occur in the second quarter to about $36 million loan at about 70% loan to cost and pricing is probably about 140 over 1 month LIBOR.
The other loan that’s in process is for 75/125 Binney again its construction financing in the low $200 million range the loan to cost in the 60% to 70% range and pricing is somewhere in the upper 2% range over one month LIBOR.
Moving onto same property performance we really delivered our fourth consecutive quarter of upward trend in cash NOI growth 2% 4% 6% and now 8.8% for each quarter from the second third and fourth quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013 respectively.
Probably notice that we provided two other calculations for same property performance in comparison to our historical same property performance as shown on Page 16 of our supplemental package.
From 2008 through 2012 including first quarter our same property performance was generally consistent over this period with the other calculations.
For the first quarter of 2013 our same property performance including our redevelopment properties would have been meaningfully higher as shown in the chart at approximately 11% on both the GAAP and cash basis in comparison to 0.4% on a GAAP basis and 8.8% on a cash basis.
Same property performance including redevelopment properties will from time to time have significant growth in net operating income as a result of completion of the conversion of non-laboratory space generally with lower net operating income to laboratory space generally with higher net operating income through our redevelopment process.
We believe our traditional method of reporting same property performance is a more useful presentation since it excludes the potential significant increases in performance as a result of completion of significant redevelopment projects.
Same property expenses for the quarter were up about 6% driven by an increase in recoverable property taxes and colder weather this year in 2013 versus 2012 and as a result we had higher snow removal cost and steam utility expenses.
Lastly on our guidance our guidance for 2013 was updated to reflect the tightening of our range by $0.02 for both the upper and lower end of the range EPS diluted was given at a range from $1.43 to $1.59 FFO per share diluted was given at a range from $446 to $462.
And lastly our assumptions detailed out in our forward guidance for 2013 are included on pages three through six of our earnings release and supplemental package.
With that I will turn it over to Joel.
Well operator we are ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Emmanuel Korchman with Citigroup.
Hi guys good afternoon.
Hi.
I was just wondering with so much capital activity included in your new guidance for this year? Could you give us a better idea of timing of perhaps the ATM and unsecured bond issuance and kind of why not the bond issuance now given try to break some of the market?  Well I guess that’s a question you could ask of almost any offer in one does.
I think we’ve been heavily focused on a number of other things in the first quarter completing our asset sales certainly in the second quarter we’re in pretty heavily focused on the financing the bank financing of the construction loan financing of the two projects that Dean referred to.
We’ll probably look to tap the ATM a little bit over the coming 2Q 3Q into 4Q and we’ll look probably as we start to get into early summer at the bond market.
We’re pretty comfortable with the – the state of the overall bond market.
We don’t think the Fed is moving in any different direction but we’ll clearly tepid it and as Dean outlined our goal is to reach the targeted numbers that we said likely of $400 million bond offering and obviously turn that out.
So I think I’d stay tuned.
We no longer necessarily commit any particular time but as we get closer to the summer months and finish up some of the other critical priority transaction especially non-income producing sales we’ll clearly turn to the bond there.
Joel its Michael Bilerman.
You just ever know what external forces could have an impact on the bond market or the equity markets for that matter and – moving out.
So even if you have a desire to wait till all the summer.
I guess would you at least do a rate lock so that you can lock in where you stand and rather than take any risk or just issue it.
You can wakeup tomorrow morning and issue bonds it’s not like you need to do a lot of work to do that construction financing or mortgage won’t take a lot more time but doing at unsecured issuance seems to be pretty simple.
Yeah well everything takes time and its allocation of resources.
I think on the rate lock I mean my own view is I think the economy is actually going to get worse not better.
So I think you actually may see rates come down even more than they are today.
So I think I would watch the rate lock pretty carefully and I’m not so sure that we are going to see rates move against us but clearly we’re paying close attention to that for sure.
Thanks for that guys.
Yeah.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you.
Can you talk a little bit more about your increased confidence on leasing at 499 Illinois and also at West Tower?  I can’t on 499 Illinois other than to say what I said we’re I think relatively comfortable after a long period of waiting almost two years here that we will substantially sell the building and I would say just stay tuned for an announcement I don’t want to say more than that and that is to relatively sell the building.
On the New York project I think I gave color on that I’m not sure what else you want to know but feel free to ask it specifically.
And you talked about European and Japanese former tenants what’s the average size of some of these leases and then where do you think rents are in both that versus your underwriting for that project in 499?  Yeah on 499 I don’t want to make any comments at the moment on New York as I said we’ve signed a 1 LOI with rental rates very much along the lines as we expected and they would not negatively impact our yields impact there might be some bump coming up over time that fourth floor is 131 000 square feet we’ve got another half of floor under active LOI negotiations another half floor got put back a few months due to a financing so we’re waiting on that and we have a number of LOIs that are out waiting for sponsors.
I would say on Japanese interest and European interest there seems to be substantial from something like half of floor and as much as a floor but again it’s early on and I can’t say too much but we’ve got a number of European firms and a number of Japanese firms one who is already a sizable tenant of ours and another market actively looking.
So we feel pretty good about things.
And I don’t know Peter you want to make any comment overall on yield? I guess the only thing I would say is that the rental rates are holding very well that what we’ve underwritten and put into the disclosures.
I would say that we’re doing better is in absorption.
We had a much more conservative absorption period in our numbers.
So we’re looking to improve on that and if everything goes as plan we should.
That’s helpful.
Sorry I can’t say more on 499 but I’d say stay tuned.
Okay.
And then can you just talk about any change in appetite for the asset class the life science office asset class we’ve seen with CMBS improving you’ve just seen more capital flowing into either secondary markets or just different property types in core Class A office.
Is anything changed in the last three months in terms of appetite?  As far as for acquisition or financing James? Its sales of your – people are more interested in your asset.
Sure.
Well we’re kind of done with the income producing asset sales.
But we did have a cadre of folks that we’re kind of in each and every deal that we were looking at that we’re interested in the repositioning of the assets and maybe taking on some of the capital that was going to be needed to reposition more to potentially be a lab owner in Suburban.
And so I can’t really tell you if anything is changed recently because we haven’t really marketed much of anything outside of the one property that we closed this last quarter in Pennsylvania and that was sold to a company that was actually purchasing the main tenant of that property.
So that was more of a user sale.
So I’m not sure I can give you any more color.
Okay thank you.
Yeah thanks Jamie.
We’ll take our next question from Matt Rand with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thanks for having the detail this quarter on the land bank.
It looks like two-third of your pre-construction and future development land is in four parcels in Cambridge and the San Francisco bay.
Can you talk through those four parcels to make up that value and kind of what your timeline is for starting developments there? Yes (inaudible) for a second yeah so I guess 33 and 34 you may be referring to.
So on 33 the two important parcels and they are pretty well highlighted as to geography square footage etcetera 100 Binney and 50 Binney.
We’ve talked about each of those a little bit on past calls and then in conferences.
Our timeline I think would be to try to monetize those in the one to three year period.
We think that demand in Cambridge would allow us probably to move forward with a 100 Binney probably sooner and then potentially 500 Binney.
We are also looking at doing two buildings at 50 Binney potentially we’re looking at some other opportunities there.
But I would say monetizable our goal is within a one to three year range and hopefully even sooner.
On the right hand side you see the Illumina campus.
There are two additional buildings totaling almost 400 000 square feet.
We are moving forward with certain San Diego permitting as requested by Illumina there.
In fact their stock and their earnings have been pretty strong.
So as they decide if and when they need to expand we’ll be ready we’ve just delivered a number of buildings to them.
So we think over the short- to medium-term those are eminently monetizable by building for them but we’ll wait to hear further from them.
On the next page Campus Point which is virtually full at the moment we’ve got one existing tenants and potentially two kind of clambering for space so we’re working on getting the San Diego entitlement to build something up to close to 150 000 square feet.
We think this is eminently monetizable in the more near term and actually the construction path that we mentioned down below there is one type of 452 to 505 yeah 450 to 505 not 550 to 605.
So we think that is a near-term opportunity with the one to two existing high quality tenants there.
And then on the Salt Lake Union land we’ve got a number of opportunities both from potentially institutions and potentially even tech tenants which are assuming to take over that market and we’re doing some entitlement work and working hard to see if we can monetize which we expect on at least one or two of these parcels probably in the relatively near-term as well.
So we feel pretty good about that if you flip over to page 36 once we put 499 to bed our attention will turn to 1600 because we think there is some pent-up demand down in Mission Bay certainly institutionally we think with coming on of half the three hospitals and the demand for a variety of users that then becomes center stage.
We’ve had a number of employees one in particular from a major hospital system working at that so that could we think that’s maybe a little bit more out beyond the year but hopefully maybe sooner than we think.
Again once we finish with 499 and then on Page 37 we’ve highlighted the Phoenix campus and what else we can do we can build another building there north of a 100 000 square feet we feel that they will probably fast-growing companies their stocks been on fire their cancer products have really been well received in the markets so we fully expect to build that project.
And then finally in 9800 Medical Centre we really have two great buildings there but I think given the market in Maryland at the moment and until that market further strengthens we likely wouldn’t be building that.
So I think that is more out beyond the near to medium-term.
So hopefully that’s helpful.
</strong> can you give us any color on that?  Those are we originally aggregated a serious of parcels right after the time when Genentech business pre-Roche acquisition filed there overlaid to the South San Francisco planning direct and in which day then I can’t remember the year but it probably was right around ‘07 ‘08 they expected to double the size of their campus in South San Francisco so what we try to do and working closely with them was to align a series of properties it’s pretty clear that that’s not going to happen.
And so I think we would probably look to either find users for those where we could build or potentially exit those assets? Okay thank you.
And then one last quick one there’s been some talk in the industry about the opportunities that do you kind of on-campus university deals how do you look at that model generally and that is an opportunities that for you guys?  Yeah we had looked at it we were involved with some I think it’s practically very hard because of 501(c) rules so I don’t think the opportunity is as great as one would imagine.
I think also one have to look today again with the challenges of federal funding and lesser dealing with credit strength of universities like MIT or others Harvard.
Going to outline universities could prove to be very challenging because their financial situation certainly under government budget pressure is going to be tough.
So that’s not something we are particularly pursuing.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Sheila McGrath with Evercore Partners.
Yes good afternoon.
Joel I was wondering if you could talk about acquisition opportunities in your markets.
Is there anything noteworthy that you’re looking at or that you attempted to bid on and weren’t the winning bidder? Yeah.
So far this year we really haven’t been active in bidding.
We do have a pipeline in each and every one of our core cluster markets.
We’ve been really stringent not going outside of those.
So we are focused on the best markets in downtown Seattle clearly the West Bay of San Francisco to refines.
We did buy one great set of assets up there last year in the spring which we will redevelop here hopefully over the coming year down into refines.
Clearly Massachusetts in the more CBD area we are looking at opportunities and probably may be in and around New York in the city potentially if we have a large firm that comes from overseas that we couldn’t accommodate at the Alexandria center.
We might look for another Manhattan site but we vigorous or really carefully stayed out of the suburbs because we are certainly trying to avoid as many of these suburban assets as possible because we think the best growth the highest quality cash flow is going to be in the CBD cluster market.
Peter you could comment broadly too.
I just – Sheila that I think we’ve been out of the acquisition game for a little bit but in looking around at all the different regions as Joel said there are probably as many opportunities today as there were the last time we were in the market.
So that’s encouraging.
And there is some really interesting high quality assets that could be immediately accretive if we were able to get them at the right price.
So we’re keeping our eye out and but focused on all the other goals we have right now.
Okay.
And then Joel I noticed in your annual report you mentioned that NYU Neuroscience is a tower too and I was just wondering if you could give us a little more detail on that and where...
Yeah they are in Tower One.
Okay I thought it’s… Yeah that’s in Tower one and they are funded by the Druck and Miller Family.
So actually its a specific funding from an outside funding source and they hired a world-class actually he is pictured in the annual report Richard Jen his brother is a Nobel price winner who is having really searching for answers and ultimately halfway some products to unlock some critical diseases including dementia which is probably the biggest market opportunities that exist.
So there are in couple of floors in the East Tower.
Got it.
And then Dean on Tower 2 it is stated to come online in fourth quarter.
Is that really lay the fourth quarter or?  Yeah.
As you can imagine we had a pretty short timeline in order to deliver Roach the space to Roach.
So we are really looking for a December early to mid December delivery of the first phase in the second tower.
Yeah we get or we’re on track to do a TCO by December 15 Sheila and actually tomorrow while be in New York for the topping out ceremony at the West Tower.
It’s moving as fast as I think any vertical construction is literally ever moved to New York and we expect to have Roche starting to move in there hopefully in December.
That’s great.
One last question on leasing spreads in the quarter on a GAAP and a cash basis were – ahead of your guidance and pretty strong whether one or two stands out leases or markets that we should know about it that move the number as fair? Yeah I think San Francisco was importantly – important in that number and I think San Diego was as well.
So it’s varies but those were – I’d say it is standup markets this quarter.
Okay all right thank you.
Yeah thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Jeff Theiler with Green Street Advisors.
Just a question about the long-term potential of the Mission Bay area you’ve obviously got some good near term traction with 499 Illinois or at least starting to get some good traction there.
What’s the timeframe for that market fully developed and does that – does the hospital once that and that gives the market critical maths or you assuming some additional tenants to move in there to really build a long-term sustainable cluster? And how do you expect to be working with sales force going forward to I guess maintain your presence in that market? Well I would say that is a viable ongoing on vital cluster today.
I mean think if – have you been down there Jeff? Yes I have.
Yeah I mean if you go down there you’ll see the UCSF’s research campus is relatively fully developed housing is amazing we’re seeing increased retail obviously we’ve got a number of commercial centres there the hospital when it comes on in late 2014 early 2015 three of them will really kind of create an explosion of people down there The Third Street Light Rail is in.
So I don’t think there’s anything left to do except continue to build it out.
I think this clusters has moved if I think about Cambridge in the early days and University Park for the city really pioneered that took about a 10 year effort.
This has really taken a lot less in a sense.
Susan Desmond-Hellmann who is new chancellor of UCSF she used to run Genentech’s product division very heralded person.
She is building her headquarters building if you will down there.
So it’s great.
I think the only thing that is really missing is probably and even more robust tech presence but I think with Cisco down there I think you’ll see some other great entities and again you’ll hear about some of those coming down there.
I think it’s a thriving fully integrated cluster and we’re very appreciative to have the really the ground floor opportunity there.
I think we’ll continue to monitor sales force I mean if they continue to grow who knows they may end up building some stuff down there and if not may be we’ll have a chance to do some things further down there as well.
But luckily it’s off our balance sheet for the moment.
Okay that’s great color.
Thank you.
Yeah.
We will take our next question from George Auerbach with the ISI Group.
Great thanks guys.
Joel thanks for the color on the land sales and the asset sales this year.
I guess if you could focus on the $125 million of non-income producing sales that have yet to be identified? Yeah.
I guess can you breakdown for us as you’re sort of think through that bucket.
How much is land and how much is I guess under leased or at the buildings? There might be a little bit of the latter but mostly I mean if you could imagine if we joint venture one of the Binney projects 50 or 100 that would more than enough to take care of that amount and we have active discussions on that right now.
We have some active tenant discussions going on.
So if we do what we did or what we’re planning on doing and Peter is really heading up this project with Tom Andrews if we JV the 100 or 50 Binney were done.
Okay so we shouldn’t be surprised if part of that in source of capital is JVs of developments?  That’s correct.
Okay.
And I guess maybe to tie back to Jamie’s question I guess any thoughts about increasing the income producing asset sales target for the year.
Just given where…? I don’t think we have to because the thing what we’ve try to do is we’ve tried to exit some of the submarkets as Peter had talked about last time First Hill in Seattle we wanted to exit or still we’ve got two other assets out there but we will probably exit next year that are under option.
So that will move us out of that market totally So we’ve kind of done what we’ve wanted to do.
I don’t see us doing anything more there.
We’re comfortable with our position.
We’re getting more fully lease there and rental rates are finally taking hold and we’re not having design roll down leases so that’s a good sign.
We like our asset base in North Carolina by and large in the triangle.
We like to exit New Jersey and you’ll probably see us do that.
But those are kind of minor assets.
We’re trying to exit Pennsylvania.
You’ll see more in this quarter and maybe another I think we maybe have one asset left.
And we might lighten up a little bit in San Diego as you see in the discontinued ops in Sorrento Mesa on a couple of assets where we think we’d like to put that money more in University Town Center in 20 times where we have a lot of activity and our leasing has been pretty much superlative.
So I think we don’t have anything more we have to go we’re pretty much done by and large.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I guess just one last question.
Some of that has were yet to be identified it sounds like some of that might just be potential JV’s but other assets that you might identify for sale I guess at what point of year do you have to identify those assets by just given the timing to just sell assets?  Yeah my guess is over the next several months George because it does take time to execute on the transaction so if we’re not there in the next three months to five months I think we would have a challenging time to complete it by the end of the year.
Great thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks very much.
We will take a follow-up from Emmanuel Korchman of Citigroup.
Hey guys.
There is a couple of follow-ups from me.
If we looking at your leasing schedule it looks like the renewal leases were done sort of shorter terms than typical and also at higher TIs can you help us kind of compare those two numbers and previously on there?  Yeah I would say don’t read anything into any particular quarter shorter term leases sometimes we’ve hadn’t bounce around two three four years whereas development redevelopment tend to be five 10 15 plus so I don’t think there is anything you could read as a big trend.
And then I think on TIs and so forth.
Again I think I wouldn’t read anything special.
They’re kind of one of the mill I don’t think anything and I ask in Dean I can’t remember anything this quarter that was particularly unusual.
So it’s a pretty average quarter.
And I think on Page 17 we’ve added trailing 12 months disclosures on leasing activity.
To give you a sense that a quarter can be anomaly because it’s relatively small amount of activity but on a trailing 12 you can see the statistics are pretty similar over the last several years.
Sure thanks.
And then Joe in your opening remarks you mentioned that some of the non-income producing sales could be international which actually means India…? Yeah we have a non-income producing land parcel or an unoccupied building.
We might choose to monetize that because we’ve got some great location.
So those would be I think relatively easily achievable.
But I think the bulk of what we’re talking about is domestic.
So I wouldn’t don’t hold your breadth on that.
Great thanks for the clarification.
Yeah sure.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our next question from Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Yeah.
Thanks.
And Joe I guess from of that last question I know you indicated previously that you might be want to find a partner for China and India asset is that simplifying? Yeah we think that it’s important because capital allocation as you clearly see from our schedules is heavily weighted to large scale development and to the extent that we see opportunistic acquisitions that makes sense.
We want to look at those from time-to-time in our core cluster markets.
And so we clearly would like to have a partner who been help us finance those operations and we think there is a strong group of international folks who would like to have high-quality assets with good quality tenants much like you’re in the U.S.
So that’s kind of our game plan.
Have you started those discussions yet? Yes.
Okay.
Can you give us any timing as if whether ‘13 ‘14 event? Not yet.
Okay great.
And then my last question on 499 Illinois maybe you can talk about it like could you kind of tell us where you’ve seen more of the activities from for the last tenant or from the traditional office tenants? Yeah we’re not currently engaged with what we have requirements from office tenants but that’s not what we’re moving with.
Okay great thanks guys.
Yep.
We’ll take our next question from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
So where our cap rates for – say roughly a life science asset and your key cluster markets? Hey Tony its Peter.
It’s going to vary but I would say that in Cambridge right now you’re probably sub six if you got good credit behind the tenant.
New York would probably be around five to maybe less than that considering what I’ve been looking at through some of the market reports from brokers.
Then you go down to San Diego it’s a very strong market too but cap rates don’t tend to go that low.
So you probably be something with the six and all but low there as long as you had high-quality building something like the Kansas point though or the Illumina Kansas.
I wouldn’t want to sell because it’s so valuable but if I did I would definitely look for something sub six.
Maryland and RTP in the suburban markets it goes up quite a bit.
You’re probably talking about a couple of 100 basis points above the clusters.
Nothing that we’ve sold that you’ve seen recently can really be a good comp because of things we saw that really been coming off leases so income wasn’t behind those values.
But I would imagine that if we sold something like a West Watkins or Clopper that was sold last quarter and those – the income was perpetual we would have been able to sell those something around mid 7s to 8.
Okay thank you.
And just on the idea of joint venturing 75/125 Binney and just perhaps some other stuff just curious how you landed on that asset versus say some others that might be either development or redevelopment or even an existing asset that might be a bit more stabilized at this point?  Well it’s a good opportunity for balance sheet purposes to do that.
There is a huge amount of interest in Cambridge Class A assets with strong tenant.
So and the numbers are sizable and we’ve got a sizable construction pipeline.
So it made sense to look at that.
I mean if we did an Onyx which is much smaller lot of brain damage for not a lot of [pub].
So that’s the one that makes eminent sense and there is some risk of future lease up that we can take advantage of I think as well.
Okay thank you.
Yeah thanks Tony.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Okay well thanks everybody.
We did it in less than 45 minutes.
So we’ll look forward to talk you on the second quarter.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Rufus and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Ms.
Rhonda Chiger.
Ms.
Chiger you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to the second quarter 2013 conference call.
With me are Dean Shigenaga Peter Moglia Steve Richardson Marc Binda and Andres Gavinet.
We’ll continue our shortened format today so there will be more times for Q&amp;A and obviously give you guys more efficiency of the listeners time pretty heavy day on earnings calls.
As we think about the second quarter I guess management’s take is it seemed a little bit like the good old days one of those really ideal quarters pre-Lehman when ARE was hitting on all cylinders and we hope we are back to doing that and those were the days when we were among the top performers on a total return basis from IPO to Lehman.
So we’d like to return to that at some point here.
U.S.
life science R&amp;D spending is up this year to $82.7 billion pharma performing well in the capital markets.
They are obviously profitable with about $181 billion as of late on the balance sheet.
The open innovation external research in key cluster markets continues to be the driver for pharma innovation and ARE has signed over 16 significant leases with big pharma over the last several years.
The IPO window for biotech is actually open big time for the first time truly in a decade with a big upswing in drug approvals as well.
For 2013 there is 13 either new chemical entities or biologics that have been approved by the FDA through July 25 and an astounding 9 out of 13 or 69% were ARE client tenants.
So we’re very proud of that record.
The NASDAQ biotech index is up about 27% for the first half and some of our clients have really had astounding performance Biogen Idec up 52% in 12 months Celgene 99% in 12 months Gilead 117% in 12 months Onyx 70% in 12 months Alumina 91% in 12 months.
We really haven’t seen that kind of performance in many years.
Scientists have been laboring for years to develop treatments that harness the body’s immune system to destroy cancer so-called cancer immunotherapy.
Bristol Myers Roche and Merck have experimental treatments in their pipelines which could become the biggest new drug class in history which is a very good thing; also a class of cancer stem cell companies are also holding great promise.
When we move from macro to internal growth I think we’ll continue to see positive movement in occupancy in most of the markets probably Maryland still showing some uncertainty but we’re making steady progress.
RTP is likely to recover nicely and positive moves in Seattle particularly in light of this quarter what was a dip primarily due to the delivery of one of our Eastlake properties.
Solid quarter on leasing 768 000 square feet in both cash and GAAP were up nicely led by the San Francisco cluster market and the 499 Illinois lease with Alumina that Steve can comment more on during Q&amp;A.
Moving to external growth it was a solid leasing with deliveries of about 22 000 of re-development almost 250 000 square feet of development and about 167 000 square feet of previously vacant space.
Over the next one to two quarters I think we’ll see some positive leasing momentum continuing at 499 Illinois.
We hope we’ll be leasing another one to three floors at the Alexandria Center for Life Science in New York.
And then let me move to I think our Alexandria Center at Kendall Square our Binney Street corridor property.
I want to focus particularly on 50 Binney which has probably the best water views of any of the sites there.
We’re working on a substantial redesign as well as a work going on to drive down cost to build and we’re targeting now a very strong digital health and technology that of tenants in the market kind of a unique opportunity and time and potentially with a kick-off potentially in the first quarter of 2014.
We are tracking nice tenant demand in Lake Union in Seattle and Campus Pointe in San Diego for future developments.
On the acquisition sides we get asked a lot about our philosophy on acquisitions.
We’re always in the market and we are tracking every possible lab or lab conversion deal that comes to market and we hope we’re very discerning on that regard.
There is quite a bit of product on the market today and we’re looking carefully.
The top priority would be value-add and obviously good submarkets where we have ability to match tenants in hand with the acquisition and create value.
If we acquire stabilized assets they must be at solid yields not low yields in secondary submarkets.
On the balance sheet which Dean will have more to say about in a moment clearly we continue to realize land sales of our non-income producing assets like the Mission Bay West which has been announced this quarter.
In India we are working hard on new investment with respect to our platform and in China we’re working hard on the potential contribution of our assets into a broad healthcare services platform.
When we move to the dividend I think you will continue to see the Board increase the dividend and continue to share I should say increases in cash flow with investors particularly as we bring on some major projects during the latter third or fourth quarter here this year.
Let me turn it over to Peter Moglia for few comments on internal growth on leasing.
So our outlook for same-property performance for full year 2013 remains solid and up 5% to 7% on a cash basis and up 1% to 3% on a GAAP basis.
Cash same-property performance at 8.3% for the first half of 2013 was driven primarily by the rent commencement for Alumina in San Diego in October of 2012 and the lease-up of some temporary vacancy in Cambridge at 790 Memorial and 300 Technology Square that had been vacant in the first half of 2012.
Same-property expenses were up 6.2% for the first half of 2013 primarily due to an increase in property tax rates in Greater Boston higher snow removal expenses and higher repairs and maintenance expenses.
94% of our leases are triple net and therefore the increases in these operating expenses are recoverable from our tenants.
Rental rates on leasing activity have improved this year.
Key drivers this quarter include better than anticipated rental rates primarily in Cambridge on releasing of space at 300 Tech Square and 215 First Street.
Value-added development projects that will deliver in the second half of 2013 include the fully leased 225 Binney project that will deliver on October 1 and the West Tower at Alexandria Center which is currently 44% lease that will deliver in mid to late December.
Value-add redevelopment projects with targeted deliveries in the third quarter include three of the five projects in redevelopment.
100% of the 285 Bear Hill Road project in Greater Boston 25 000 square feet of the 36 000 square feet of CIP at 343 Oyster Point and the Bay Area and the entire 9800 Medical Center Drive project in Maryland.
I’ll add that we also expect to deliver 79% of 4757 Nexus in the fourth quarter.
With that I’ll hand over to Dean.
Thanks Peter.
Real briefly here guys.
Quickly to the balance sheet.
Our debt to adjusted EBITDA was about 6.6 times and our fixed charge coverage ratio was about 2.7 times for quarter end.
And we’re projecting improvement in leverage to 6.5 times by the end of the year and our fixed charge coverage ratio to be about 3.3 times by - at year end.
Our unhedged variable rate debt is down nicely to approximately 11% of total debt.
We’ve got a tremendous amount of liquidity today with $1.5 billion available on our line and $300 million in cash.
Our outstanding debt under our three bank facilities were reduced by over $700 million or approximately 37% since January 1.
Briefly some updates on our three bank facilities.
In July we completed an amendment to our 2016 unsecured term loan to reduce the interest rate to LIBOR plus 120 basis points.
Our goal is to retire this $600 million term loan over the next one to three years so we kept the maturity around mid-2016.
At the end of August we expect to close an amendment to our $1.5 billion line of credit in our $600 million 2017 unsecured term loan.
The amendment is focused primarily on extending the maturities from 2017 to January of 2019 reducing the interest rate for outstanding borrowings and minor adjustments in our favor to a few financial covenants.
Aggregate commitments will not change.
Pricing at the line of credit will be reduced to LIBOR plus a 110 basis points plus an annual facility fee up 20 basis points and our 2017 term loan will drop to LIBOR plus 120 basis points.
Our guidance for the full year includes an estimated loss of $0.02 per share that we expect to recognize in the third quarter related to the write-off of a portion of unamortized loan fees related to these amendments.
We also expect to close the secured construction loan over the next couple of weeks for 75/125 Binney Street with commitments of approximately 65% of the total cost to completion.
The anticipated interest rate on the loan will be LIBOR plus 135 basis points.
Lastly on guidance we updated our guidance for earnings per share diluted to a range from $1.53 to $1.63.
We reaffirmed our guidance for FFO per share as adjusted for 2013 to a range from $4.35 to $4.45.
Our guidance for FFO per share as adjusted as a reminder excludes $0.03 of losses on early extinguishment of debt due to the write-off of unamortized loan fees $0.01 was recognized in the second quarter and again $0.02 are estimated for the third quarter.
And as a reminder our detailed guidance assumptions for the year are included on page three of our earnings release.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Joel.
So that’s it for prepared remarks.
We did it in less than 15 minutes.
So let’s go to the operator for Q&amp;A please.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And for our first question we go to Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
Just you guys sort of breezed through but can you give more details on what exactly you said on China it sounded like some kind of contribution into a services platform and also the continued build out in India and how we should think about maybe size and scope and timing of that? Well let me - let me say this about each one of those.
With respect to China we’re working on a pending transaction so I don’t want to say anything more but we’re looking at contributing our assets to a broader healthcare services platform which we think has enormous value.
We don’t plan to put any significant more capital into that but this gives us a chance to add our assets to a larger pool and potentially earn some significant fees for helping manage some of that effort.
In India its we’re involved in raising additional investment funds.
We don’t again plan to put any significant or really any significant funds into India it would be primarily through third-parties so there is nothing changing.
According to our business plan we just moved it ahead quite a bit as we‘ve announced in the past.
So that’s about all I could say about it for the moment.
And Joel I don’t know if you can talk about this or not but in China you would still maintain some type of equity position or you sell it completely? We would maintain some kind of an equity position but potentially that would be a liquid security.
Okay.
And then just looking at the back half acquisition pipeline it looks like from your disclosure you have $64 million of projected completed or in-process acquisitions.
I was wondering kind of what stage that’s in right now and what those might be and just what the remaining asset acquisitions might look like? Yes.
So we have something in the range of $64 plus million in process today.
We expect to close those this quarter.
And then behind that we have probably another $150 million of asset acquisitions that are in relatively near-term pipeline but not in a formal process yet.
So that kind of where we are at the moment I’m not sure I want to say anything else about where how whenever.
But if you listen to my comments about the attributes that we’re looking for we’ll stay true to how we’re thinking about those.
So just so I get this correct those are unlikely to be sort of value-add opportunities and more likely to be sort of portfolio quality acquisitions? No I didn’t say that.
I said we really are looking at two kinds of acquisitions and I think you’ll see whatever we end up acquiring this year will be either value-add or if it happens to be stabilized it will have a good yield or strong yield and it won’t be in secondary or tertiary markets.
We’re not looking for those kinds of acquisitions.
So that the parameters under which we are thinking about things because we’re seeing a fair amount being brought to market these days as I shared over the past quarter or so.
Okay.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And for our next question we go to Gabe Hilmoe with UBS.
Hi guys.
Just following up on -- Hi.
Just some pricing around the acquisitions and the yields I guess when we were looking at kind of the conversion redevelopment type plays versus core how should we kind of be thinking about growing cap rates with that type of stuff? Yes.
This is Peter Moglia.
I think that the way that things we’re underwriting for the redevelopment properties that we’re looking at now they are obviously going to range depending on the market something in a core market like Cambridge may price differently then something in a market in San Diego.
But in general we’re looking at redevelopment stuff that’s between 7% and 8% right now.
Okay.
And just kind of on core I mean for best of the best in Cambridge? We don’t -- we’re not really looking at anything new and we’re obviously developing the Binney Street projects to very high yields and we’ve plenty in our pipeline for that market.
But I would say that it’s still a very vibrant market for investment and if we decided to switch from development to acquisition there I think we would find cap rates to be very low.
So we’re very comfortable with what we’ve now in our development.
As Joel said we’re going to look for stabilized opportunities but we don’t want to go too crazy with cap rates and things that are priced fairly.
Yes.
And ideally they would be in the high sixes or well above that.
I don’t think you will see us buy anything in the six range or below or even mid sixes unless it was something unusual but we don’t have anything in our pipeline today that kind of is targeted there.
Okay.
And then on the 50 Binney development Joel I think you mentioned potentially starting that January of next year did I hear that correctly? First quarter.
What kind of pre-leasing do you need to have to go live with that? Yes I think stay tuned because we’re working hard on a number of requirements that seem to be unusual in the market and I don’t want to commit at the moment.
I mean we ended up we’ve done 100% pre-leasing like Biogen Idec at 225 and in New York we did 15% and now that’s stepped up to much larger than that.
So I think it kind of depends.
But we see an unusual interesting opportunity in the market very little competitive product which is very important and a surge in requirements in the Digital Health and Tech area.
As you know on the lab side we’re still looking at 100 Binney for one or more lab tenants but we’re also mindful that there is a lot of lab space not necessarily competitive maybe second third or fourth generation space that’s coming back over in 2014 from Vertex’s move to Fan Pier so we’re mindful of that.
But we see kind of unique opportunity in the market for a period of time where we maybe the only game in town and there are some pretty good sized requirements there at pretty good yields.
So let me just leave it at that.
Okay.
And I guess just one more for you Joel.
Just on the land sale in Mission Bay.
I was wondering if you can give a little bit more color on the decision to do that because you have spoken in the past about your expectations are pretty sizable institutional demand kind of coming down to that part of the market after the hospitals done I'm just looking for a little bit more color on the (business in that sellout)? Yes I'm going to ask Steve to comment obviously it’s a pending transaction so he may just give you some broad brushes but I think it’s fair to say that we have to think cleverly in-depthly and flexibly our balance sheets now probably the best its ever been but we’re mindful that we still have a bit more non-income producing property than we want and our targets are to bring that down even more over time we’re looking at a ratings upgrade hopefully over the coming year from S&amp;P and so we want to be mindful of that.
And here was a very solid opportunity that came long there was ownership desire and ownership that was desired by the acquirer and so we thought long and heard about it but felt we have enough flexibility in the Mission Bay area over time that we felt that was not getting heard us strategically to do that but Steve can give you some further color.
Yes.
Just to add to that the ownership dimension was really an imperative.
So we had enough heading down that path and it will be a mix of the land and existing improvements as well including parking spaces.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question we go to Jeff Theiler with Green Street Advisors.
Good afternoon.
I was wondering if you can just give a quick update on the cap rate environment and why did it rise in interest rates lately do you expect to see cap rates trend up do you expect certain markets to be more affected any additional color you can provide on that would be helpful? Okay.
We’re helping you with your next edition.
Peter will talk to you about that.
Yes I mean we - we’ve been discussing it obviously we got to pay attention to a rising interest rates and how that’s going to affect our business.
But I’ve been in the business for over 20 years and doing acquisitions for much of that and I think what - I think that it’s if the rates remain up a 100 basis points and we kind of stabilize here I think there is plenty of room in the risk premium that cap rates have over treasuries to absorb it.
So I wouldn’t think that we’re going to see much of any movement.
I think if they continue to rise and it’s rise in real interest rate I mean rise and really yield that’s driving it then cap rates will ultimately have to adjust.
And however I would say that there is going to be at least 6 to 12 months delay before that happens because sellers are the last to understand that they need to lower their price.
I’d say that if the rise is due to inflation and may be the effect would be muted a little bit because it’s a possibility that more funds will flow into real estate looking to hedge but that’s basically how we feel right now and I don’t think we’re going to see much of any movement.
Okay.
And any markets if you do see markets - movement any markets in particular that you would be more worried about than others? I mean the markets that have the weakest demand for products obviously are going to be the most sensitive to it and we’re not really in acquisition mode in any of those markets.
All right.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
And we go next to Jamie Feldman with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Greta thank you.
I just want to focus on internal growth a little bit.
So you guys have had a pretty solid year for leasing spreads and same-store growth.
Can you talk about the sustainability of both of those metrics as we roll on to the back half of the year and even in the 2014? Well I think Jamie its Dean here.
On same property you can tell from our first half results being at least on a cash basis very solid at 8.3% and our guidance has remained for the full year at 5% to 7% which is very solid results anticipated for the full year.
It also implies that the first half as Peter had commented on had a few drivers lease-up of some space in Cambridge that was vacant in the first half of the 2012 that boosts the first half of 2013 cash performance.
So I think you’ll see slightly small or same property cash results on the back half of 2013 but still falling right in the core of our targeted 5% to 7%.
I think if you roll these numbers forward to 2014 you’ll see statistics that should be big picture roughly in line with our current target for 2013.
So I’d say somewhere in that north of 5% range on cash and GAAP same property results in that similar range up to 3% but we’ll give you a better update as we get out into our Investor Day presentation in December.
When you think about leasing the leasing stats are very strong at 6.5 on a cash basis 12.7 on a GAAP basis those fall relatively in line with our guidance for the full year.
Cash leasing stats at 3 to 5 for the full year slightly down there but the GAAP numbers are going to be right down the fairway for the back half of the year.
So I guess focusing on rents what are you guys thinking and what are you seeing in terms of just market rent growth? Well I think when you look at - you almost got a go market-by-market we’ve been successful as you can tell from our commentary for the last two calls and in Cambridge and re-leasing our spaces.
San Diego we’ve done well and Seattle we’ve done well and I think Merrill Lynch been clear that rents have remained challenging in and out C&amp;E dramatic growth coming out of that market.
So I think our opportunity set remains in our core markets from Cambridge San Diego Mission Bay and up in Seattle.
Yes.
Just to add to that Jamie I mean when you look at vacancy rates and trends the direct vacancy in East Cambridge is dipped down pretty significantly 300 bps from 9.9% to 6.9% I mean Joel mentioned that Vertex space becoming available but that’s always a little bit when you’re dealing with sub-leases.
The Boston Office market has improved as well with the tax sector to repines the availability debt 40 bps as well from 10.3% to 9.9%.
San Francisco market burning off some of the availability at 99 Illinois South San Francisco San Mateo County we’re about in 9.5% vacancy.
So the overall market stats are trending in the right direction as well.
Did you have a sense of where market rents are for your product year-over-year and may be on the net effective basis what kind of growth you’ve seen? Well I think there are reflected here in the stats that we’ve been talking about with the cash and the GAAP increases.
Okay.
And Jamie to fair we don’t have the net effective numbers right in front of us.
So I can’t give you an exact answer to your question.
And then turning to your comments on Digital Tech and Health can you just help frame may be how large that opportunity is and may be it sounds like in Cambridge but is it that something we’ll see spread across other markets? Well it’s a big opportunity right now and we’re - we’ve signed one lease and we’re looking at some others in the San Francisco Bay area I think the Bay area is really where the home of this is resident but we see Cambridge Boston and the San Francisco Bay area is really the major areas.
Yeah Digital Health is kind of an interesting area because of the very broad it’s a very broad intersection of essentially the IT platform type companies and healthcare and it’s one of those situations where there are going to be and they’re already are many opportunities for the convergence to take advantage of lowering healthcare clause this isn’t so much in the pharma and drug area it relate to a large extent is in many of the other areas which are really big areas.
And so it will happen in pharma and drugs to some extent but the big -- the big opportunity are in electronic monitoring and number of the service components it’s quite a quite a big area.
If you want to read something that’s pretty stellar about this read Eric Topol’s book.
He is really the guru in this area.
He is a professor -- tenured professor down at UCSD and he is really predicted this to be the fastest growing area of the new economy over the next decade and I personally believe it.
And then what kind of - how is the building requirement different for Digital Health versus your typical life sciences? Well it would be much more of a techie kind of building but they meet our qualifications because most of those locations want to be in Mission Bay for example they want to be in Palo Alto they want to be in Cambridge they want to be in Boston they want to be in really the CBD areas that we focused our Class-A our AAA locations and Class-A product force.
So we see it as a natural kind of extension of what we’re doing.
We’re not dramatically changing our focus but it’s clear that a lot of demand we’re seeing in these markets is aimed in that direction.
And so you are saying its more like traditional office space I know its Tech but -- I don’t think its traditional office.
It’s really new generation high-tech and we’re building out a space for the probably the premier incubator backed by Kleiner Perkins in San Francisco called Rock Health and its very cool very techie very cool space and its taken about couple of 1000 square feet in our 455 Mission Bay facility that was actually going to go retail interestingly enough.
So we see it as a natural compliment to what we’re doing.
Okay.
Their last component or no? I’ll add to that --  Dean Shigenaga? Jamie the infrastructure you’re going to see in that type of use is you’re going to need a lot of air to keep the computers cool.
You’re going to need a lot of power a lot more power than you would supply in office building with so.
As Joel said its not traditional office it is an infrastructure play.
It just doesn’t have the weight component to it.
And it’s not data centers either.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Yes.
The key is we want to be in the best AAA CBD locations where we have our anchor business and with Class-A assets and if we can do that and meet some of this demand that’s going to be great and meet our yield hurdles.
So the yield is comparable to your traditional life science? Well I think its case-by-case.
We don’t have enough experience there but certainly the cost of construction is less and so one would hope you could meet pretty good yields.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
We’re pretty comfortable in the yields we’re targeting in Cambridge.
(Operator Instructions) We go next to Matthew Spencer with Robert W.
Baird.
Hey guys its Dave Rodgers.
I wanted to follow up on 499 Illinois and maybe kind of tie-in the digital management question.
I mean is that kind of what you’re looking at for space out there or is that going to be continued to be more traditional lab.
And can you give us some of the color on the backfilling work you’re doing for that vacancy? Yes.
Hi Dave.
Right now we’re looking at a mix of technology Digital Health and more traditional lab users as well as translational uses so then core benefiting again from that location and a number of different demand drivers there.
We do have 30 000 square feet for a lease that’s out for signature that’s more on the traditional lab or translational lab type of side but we’re actively talking with people on the technology in Digital Health side as well.
And then I guess maybe a question for Dean or for Steve if you have it.
How many assets do you expect to come out of the core of the operating portfolio maybe during the second half of the year and move into redevelopment either the number of assets are particularly I guess square footage of assets coming out in the second half? Well I think if you go to - if you go to the supplement I think its kind of - Page 17.
Yes page 17.
I think clearly this year we don’t have anything targeted for redevelopment and we’ve one or maybe two combined assets next year that are kind of a little bit older office like properties in the suburban DC market that if they in fact will that we would likely try to enhance those and go for some kind of a laboratory use but other than that we don’t have anything unless we buy something that we would be converting like the Barnes Canyon.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then maybe a question for Peter on the disposition side it sounds like acquisitions remain competitive but are heating up in terms of the number of offerings out there is that bleeding over to the dispositions you’d like to do and make you think a little bit broader about the disposition pipeline of assets that you think about putting out there? Yes.
Well I think we’ve indicated we don’t have any plans for any significant dispositions.
But we are continually looking at the asset base for non-income producing assets much like Steve mentioned the Mission Bay West sale.
You may see some more of that.
We would hope that we would be able to lower our total non-income producing assets.
But I think there may be here and there are small income producing asset or so.
There is a handful but nothing of any significance.
But I think the place you ought to focus would be further sales of land asset.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
And we go next to Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Thanks.
Good afternoon Joel.
Hi there.
I was wondering if you could just touch on a little bit more about the New York demand it sounds like you’ve got another use that might take one to two floors.
I’m just curious kind of the pace of leasing now that you’ve got kind of the major anchor tenant and what are you seeing what are happening with rents? And then second question if you could just comment on the TI and leasing commissions figure this quarter and I know that jumped quite a bit and I’m just wondering if that’s tied directly into the leasing that you might have done in New York? Yes.
So when you look at the floor plan of Roche is taking the top two floors.
The floors are all about 30 000 plus square feet a piece.
Our second anchor investment grade tenant is taking floors two three four and five.
The lobby will be we’re actually moving our office.
We’ve actually leased our office in which has great views and so forth at a great rate and we’ll be moving when the building opens to the ground floor the new building together with the fitness center and so forth.
But we’ve in process and we’re still at the exchanging LOI stage with one former tenant to take potentially one to two floors and this would be lab space.
I’m pretty optimistic.
It’s hard to know exactly the timing but third and fourth quarter I give it a plus 50%.
We’re also working with a joint venture of a biotech and a big pharma for potentially a full floor so that might take 12 and 14 and 9 in those two separate transactions.
And then we have a biotech tenant that is actually in public offering mode right now that looks to take potentially the better part of maybe a half a floor more and then we’ve our accelerator effort which we hope to get off the ground this quarter in fact to take the other half of the floor.
So I say in the short-term we probably got three four floors working I kind of round down just to be conservative so may be one to three is what I said on my commentary those are all lab users.
Rents have held very strong.
We’re in the well within our targets in the upper 70s approaching $80 triple net.
And as you know I think the lease we signed leasing commissions in New York are just always higher than many other places and our TIs are maybe a little bit more than because of the nature of the tenant.
But I think our yields are holding in fact our yields might even have some room for growth and certainly the average stabilized yield which we disclosed this quarter in New York is above seven.
So we feel pretty good about if we were to turn around and sell a first class building in New York with credit tenants that are 10 15 20 years my guess is we could do better than a seven cap rate on that by a long shot.
So I feel pretty good about the economics there and the demand is.
It’s a market that there is not normal demand because its not a Cambridge or Boston established so we’ve created the demand and I think with the product type and the cluster ecosystem we’ve developed I think we’ve done a really nice job of doing that and so I feel very very good about the prospects in New York.
If you remember the East Tower when we built that it was a 100% spec pre-Lehman.
We delivered it in the mid well in the fall of 2010.
We had a three year lease up and we actually finished leasing it up in 12 months.
So I’m not saying we can do that exactly but I think we’re on track maybe to come close to that.
Okay.
And then I know you guys have been working very actively to kind of whittle down the land bank and the kind of development pipeline but as you start to get some of these other projects completed whether it would be Binney or New York and obviously you are making progress in San Francisco.
Have you sort of think about backfilling the development pipeline over the next two to four years? Yes.
That’s a really good question.
I think though if you look at the supplement which Dean and the team have I think masterfully developed there is we’ve quite a bit.
I mean we - there is no shortage of opportunities.
San Diego we’ve got quite a bit.
We’ve got some in Seattle.
We’ve got some in the San Francisco Bay (inaudible) probably isn’t going to happen.
We’ve got another option parcel in New York and we still got over a million square feet in Binney.
So I think for the next two to four years we’re probably in good shape but if we have an unusual requirement and we wouldn’t hesitate to try to go out and buy land to match I don’t think we need to do that I hope we don’t have to.
But our goal is to get that rating up with S&amp;P and ultimately both rating is up over - over the more medium term.
So we’re mindful of not carrying that land.
But if we’ve opportunity in hand and we could snag a land parcel that would be a better way to go rather than keep it on balance sheet for an indeterminate time.
We’ve certainly been beaten up over the last many years for that strategy which work so successfully pre-Lehman but we’ve obviously adjusted that strategy.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thanks Steve.
And we go next to Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes.
Thank you.
When did you guys first noticed the pickup in the acquisition opportunities that you are tracking in the market today? They have seen that way for a while we’ve focused.
I mean we’ve never been out of the acquisition market.
But remember our major focus was getting our balance sheet to an investment grade level that would enable us to upgrade our BBB minus rating with S&amp;P.
We’re BBB flat with Moody’s that’s been the focus.
So we’ve not wanted to put additional pressure on the balance sheet over the last couple of years.
We’ve done some last year.
We bought a great site in San Diego that we’re likely to start development on here in the coming couple of quarters.
It looks like we may have some tenants there at the Spectrum project.
So we’re in the market we see everything.
We look at everything.
We think about things.
We looked at big project in Cambridge that we have some real interest in but it kind of waned and ultimately never got sold.
So I’d say we were always in the market.
Okay.
And what’s the - is there more single type assets out there or are there portfolio deals with typical type of opportunity? It varies.
I would say larger portfolios no but as asset or two or three or larger asset those are out there and sometimes we go hunting.
We don’t just wait for things to come to market.
We actually look at opportunities that we’d like to be involved with and see if there is some way to create a win-win opportunity.
So it isn’t like we just wait for something to come across the fax machine or email that isn’t how this business is done.
Okay.
And then are there stabilized lab assets or should we expect more of these redevelopment type office assets like the one you completed this quarter? Yes I think you’ll see I think somebody else asked that question.
I think you’ll see a combination and I don’t think you’ll see as by high price low cap rate assets in tertiary market that’s not a business model that we would subscribe to.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thank you.
And with a follow-up question we return to Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Yes.
It’s Michael Bilerman speaking.
I may have missed this but this one 1600 Owens what’s your sort of all-in basis with the allocated parking and improvements for that land? Yes.
I think one thing we would say Michael is because it’s a pending transaction allow us to complete the transaction then we’ll fully disclose that.
I think at this point it would be better not to say make any comment on that but we’ll have a gain on the transaction.
Is there a range of gain are we talking about 10% just to understand -- to understand how much of the non-income producing bucket because its obviously an important part of your strategy of whittling that down and then creating capital for future growth? Yes Michael to give you some idea its - inside of 10% of the transaction.
Okay.
And Joel just a question for you in terms of the shareholder vote and to Say on Pay which arguably was probably disappointing to yourself and to the board of only getting 9% of shareholders to support Say on Pay and the compensation.
I guess what have you gone back? What is the comp committee you’ve gone back and sort of evaluated based on what shareholders have said and voted effectively? I recognize its not binding but it’s clearly was a message and so I’m just curious how you as well as the comp committee have reacted? Well I think that you have to put it into perspective when I renegotiate in my contract in 2012 with the company it took many many months to figure out a formula going from kind of what was the old and established and accepted contract which have the bells and whistles that the folks at ISS and others ultimately didn’t like and many CEOs were in that position and we worked long and hard.
We probably spent about six to nine months on it because it’s a black box ultimately because it’s a little different than going to the IRS where you get an advanced drilling and say if we do this transaction can we get approval with ISS and other folks that overview that kind of stuff.
You actually don’t have.
You can’t get that ahead of time and they are also looking at every company as the same.
This company is a science driven company.
It’s a development company.
It’s got a senior management team of 12 to 15 people who have been with the company for more than a decade.
This is a complicated business if not let’s go out and buy suburban office and just kind of do that as a play.
So it’s a complicated set and I’m probably one of the only people that have technical experience both on the life science side from decades and also on the real estate side.
So we ultimately ended up with a contract that actually got approved by recommended for approval by ISS last year.
They said you have made enough changes and you worked well and they gave it a stamp of approval.
And again we didn’t we couldn’t know that ahead of time which was always kind of tough because you wok hard and it’s always give and take on both sides.
So this year what really made the difference I think there was a signing bonus that was vested over the I think I forget the ratio but let’s say it’s 50/50 it might have been 40/60 but part over - over a number of years none of which vested in 2013 and then in separate part that was based on total performance again none of which vested in 2013 but the value of that signing bonus was a $5million but all of which was downstream over many years not a huge number if you compare to other CEOs out there I‘m sure.
And ISS absolutely because of the way they stack and the way they measure its not whether it realized it’s whether it just comes to fruition by a reporting matter.
So that was the thing that kind of tip the scales encrypt it.
And so obviously the company myself independently the comp committee and their advisors are looking how do we kind of fix that in a way that’s there and reasonable for everybody.
So we’re working through that and that’s gong to take a deal time again the challenge is one can’t go back to ISS and get some blessing you kind of have to do you best and then hope that they bless it.
But I’m also mindful that I don’t want both as the CEO a member of the board the founder of this company I don’t think that we ought to have some agency that has a lot of conflict that’s being investigated by Congress to actually order us or tell us what to do when we compensate whether its media or senior executives.
They can suggest things.
They can set best practices but I don’t think they ought to like control the world.
So I think we have to take a balanced approach to that and I think the board the comp committee myself and the company as a whole are trying to do that.
we have operated in good faith.
We have always done the right thing.
We certainly never done anything that didn’t make good sense and I think you’ll see that outcome in the 2014 proxy so that’s kind of how we view it.
Well I guess ISS and Glass Lewis and not everyone has to vote with them you still had 52 million shares that were voted against the plan.
They don’t necessarily have to vote upon those recommendations and as sort of you and also from shareholders perspective right because the shareholder can make their own independent determination? For sure but yeah for sure but they carry a lot of weight.
I think the other thing that obviously trips - has tripped the company it didn’t trip them in approving last year the nature of the contract but this year I think our total return performance over the 1 3 and 5 years has not been what it was pre-Lehman and one of the reasons is if you look at we ended up the end of 2008 at one of the highest stock prices of any REIT.
And then if you take that as a base going forward on a comparison of 1 3 and 5 years if you start at $60 a share and a lot of guys were selling in single-digits the performance over the next couple of years were going to be naturally devastated by that high stock price.
And so we just haven’t performed up to par and obviously we’ve been in a multiyear balance sheet transition.
So those things have obviously hurt us and hurt us in the eyes of shareholders as well.
Just a question on the acquisition so of the 200 to 300 that is in guidance what sort of contribution to earnings do you have in there for the back half of the year? Michael its Dean here.
It’s relatively smaller.
It’s $0.02 to $0.03 in that range.
And keep in mind it’s probably more impactful in the fourth quarter because what we’re doing is taking cash sitting idle on our balance sheet today and putting that to use so.
Right and well I guess and it does depend I guess its value-add I guess you are not going to earn the return on those value-add deals that you - could that just be land or that is more redevelopment in terms of spend?  Well the one way to think of it Michael is it really depends on the transaction itself but the Barnes Canyon transaction as an example that one is really small but its real and you can look at it.
Our disclosures indicate that we’ll carry a 7% return.
Short-term while we’re able to do our planning and design for the redevelopment and with any luck there is limited downtime to transition from a value-add 7% yield to a redevelopment return to be slightly (viable).
And I guess just lastly Joel I guess the acquisitions some have worked out in the past some haven’t you obviously have a great significant amount of redevelopment new development good internal growth going.
I guess when you sit back do you seeing what.
I’m just going to forget about these acquisitions and I’ll keep my leverage my leverage will be lower or I have enough money to fund the development I won’t have to really on ATM and really allow the stock to gain some momentum rather than trying to replenish or going out and doing other value-add or even higher cap rate core assets.
I guess if you rethought maybe saying what forget about it let’s just move forward on what we already have in our plate which is quite substantial.
Well I think that again you have to look at everything combined.
Its not it’s no binary.
I think when we look at the acquisition we made last year in the Barnes Canyon if we have we see a particularly good location that we like.
We have targeted tenants that we are pretty interested in and in both cases we do.
We feel like it make sense.
We’ve got pretty high occupancy and a lot of our key markets.
So I think Peter said we’re not necessarily looking for big Cambridge acquisitions because we’ve got a lot on our plate then I think San Diego is very interesting place New York City represents an interesting opportunity to the extent that it make sense in a market or two.
So I don’t think you are going to see us change dramatically from what we’ve been doing.
I mean we’ve been in the acquisition market as I say every quarter all the time and we try to be pretty discrete.
So I don’t think we’re trying to be we’re not trying to ramp that up in any unusual way.
We may or may not meet those targets but I think we’ll be able to hopefully meet guidance as best we can and I think we’ve got all the wherewithal to do that.
I don’t think we’re changing our strategy and I think we’re committed to lower leverage.
Our balance sheet is in great shape.
But we want to grow and where we see the opportunity for to match tenants with product and if we don’t own it we can’t necessarily just go out and build everything.
And as you see from the schedule we don’t have anything targeted for redevelopment this year and only one or two assets that we currently own potentially for next year maybe there was some other add-on.
So I don’t think you will see anything dramatic that we’re doing that would change what we done in the past.
Okay.
Thank you.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we’ll end our Q&amp;A session and therefore Mr.
Marcus I’ll turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we did it in less than an hour.
We thank you very much.
Great questions and we look forward to talking to you in the next quarter.
Thanks again everybody.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cathy and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now like to turn the conference over to Rhonda Chiger.
Ms.
Chiger you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s Form 10-K annual report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda.
And welcome everybody to Alexandria’s third quarter ‘13 conference call.
With me today are Dean; Peter; Steve; Marc and Andres.
We’ll continue we hope a somewhat shortened format to leave adequate time for Q&amp;A.
I think management’s quick take of the quarter is that we are very pleased with an all around solid third quarter by our entire Alexandria team.
Let me comment a little bit about the biopharmaceutical industry.
As you know one of the nation’s most dynamic innovation and business ecosystem built upon robust foundation of company academia and clinical that performance supported then by medical and technological R&amp;D and really act as a funnel and distribution engine for getting life saving and quality of life improving therapeutics to the marketplace.
The sector provide significant R&amp;D north of about $65 billion yielding new treatments and potential cures and things that actually may prevent the onset of disease and ultimately reduce the socioeconomic cost and burden of society as whole.
And accomplishing the mission of bringing these treatments to patients the sector has really sustained a large scale supply chain ecosystem both in R&amp;D and support production distribution et cetera.
The value chain continues to evolve shaped by technological advances that open up opportunities to really new goods and services including the areas of molecular diagnostics and medical informatics we talked about that before.
The sector contributes supports about 3 -- directly and indirectly about 3.4 million U.S.
jobs and generates about almost $90 billion of take home income and it has compensation twice the private sector average in the U.S.
which is pretty amazing.
The industry accounts for almost $800 billion in economic output almost 3% of total U.S.
output.
And the economic impact comprises about $375 billion in direct business and over $400 billion in indirect and also about $40 billion government taxes.
So it’s a pretty sizable industry and one that has incredibly important impact given the advent of Obamacare we may talk about that in the future calls.
Moving to operations and internal growth our number one tenant we’re pleased.
Novartis has continued its global expansion by taking full building in Research Triangle Park and Steve will have more to say on the leasing side.
And I am pleased to say that the first in the 16-year history of ARE as a public company now over half our ABR is generated from investment grade tenants that’s significant milestone.
We had a very strong leasing quarter with 830 000 square feet and solid cash and GAAP increases and we’ve only get about 297 000 square feet of rolls left in the fourth quarter very manageable.
We continue same solid same property performance Dean will comment on as we continue to enjoy increases in both rental rates and occupancy across most of our cluster submarkets margins are holding steady and solid about 70% and we are comfortable reiterating our internal growth guidance as Dean will highlight in a couple of minutes.
Moving to external growth solid set of deliveries out of redevelopment in the third quarter including San Francisco Massachusetts Maryland and Seattle averaging about 83% occupied.
This leaves our Genomatica project in San Diego was the only domestic active redevelopment but we are teeing up some for value creation addition into the pipeline.
I think the big news for the quarter on the delivery side was our first Binney Street quarter flagship facility delivered to Biogen Idec 305 000 squarer feet on time and on budget with very solid yields and as Dean will highlight our non-income producing assets as percentage of GAV dropped below 20% as we have predicted.
A couple of quick updates on development project Steve will talk 499 Illinois and the 269 East Grand.
On the -- our New York project the Alexandria Center for Life Science were 48% leased to date with two credit tenant and we are negotiating final agreements for about 20% more with the variety of users for approximately 84 000 square feet and we believe these are highly probably to close in the fourth quarter bringing our total expected leasing to about 68% by the end of December when we delivered row space again a very solid yield for New York City.
Our Longwood joint venture we are negotiating additional space requirements approximating about 90 additional 90% or 79 000 square feet which would bring occupancy to about 68%.
We are seeing nice resurgence in the integrated clinical sector over there.
Moving to 75/125 Binney a lot of attention has been given to that.
To remind people lease does not give Ariad any termination right or downsizing rights.
Ariad has stated that they intend to occupy the premises but we are comfortable that we can satisfactorily address all of eventualities and we will be aggressive in managing this matter.
Over the next two to three months Ariad will modify their space plan and program needs to reflect the revise business and financial strategy which they intent to announce on November 6th and they are also updating their New England Journal of Medicine details about the trial on November 7th.
If Ariad does sublease portion of their premises the project can easily accommodate multi-tenant lab or office configurations base building construction is full speed ahead steel will be topped off next week and base building is schedule be weather tight in April.
The design of the tenant improvement is pause pending completion of Ariad’s revised program.
IT construction has not commenced at this time we continue to project that the base building completion and rent commencement will be achieved in the first quarter of ’15.
Steve will have more to say about demand in Cambridge.
On the balance sheet side land sells we’ve revised down about $75 million to $100 million from our original estimate at the beginning of 2013 but we hope to capture much of this in 2014.
On the dividend the Board policy is to continue to share increasing cash flows with investors as we still have a low dividend payout ratio of about 65%.
Let me move to Peter Moglia a couple of highlights on transactional side.
Sure.
Thanks Joel.
There were two notable trades from other investors in the third quarter I’d like to highlight.
The Heights at Del Mar a 219 000 square foot office lab building two building campus which is located in the Del Mar Height submarket of San Diego was sold by Prudential for $126 350 000.
The property anchored by Neurocrine Biosciences is also included an 89 000 square foot developed pad.
So we estimate the cap rate to be 6.3% and the price per square foot of the improvements to be about $547.
So although we were admires of this real estate and intimately knowledgeable of the project that it was Veralliance redevelopment we chose not to pursue this investment based on the pricing and the nature of the tenant.
Also 320 Charles Street in Cambridge traded for $52 million or $523 per square foot.
The property is currently occupied by the Broad Institute but will become vacant when Broad moves to their new 250 000 square foot building at Cambridge Center in the middle of next.
We decline to pursue this opportunity based on the pricing expectations for this 1940s vintage building.
So with that I’ll pass it over to Steve.
Thank you Peter.
And I’ll start with a quick overview and then touch on specific leasing items and finish up with couple of key trends of interest.
So overall the Alexandria's life science cluster markets are very healthy.
As we’ve been discussing the Biotech Index has hit all time highs liquidity is very strong with 42 IPOs to date raising nearly $3 billion as well as large and small M&amp;A activity all driven by genuine clinical results.
Alexandria is fully integrated regional teams lease to total of 829 533 square feet and 57 leases during this past quarter at our outstanding assets driving occupancy gains of our North American operating portfolio did 95% up 40 bps from last quarter.
Also noteworthy is the occupancy rate of 94.5% when including the company’s redevelopment set of facilities a clear indication of our ability to attract and retain the highest quality client tenants.
Cash and GAAP quarterly leasing spreads increased by 4.1% and 16.5% respectively with the major drivers not only including activity in Cambridge Torrey Pines in New York but also the Greater DC market in South San Francisco.
Finally as Joel touched on the redevelopment and development pipeline continues to make steady progress with 228 000 plus square feet leased this quarter and specifically increasing the lease and negotiating percentages to 68% at our New York facility up from 56% last quarter and now 82% at 499 Illinois up from 73% last quarter.
To touch on the markets specifically demand in Cambridge in the inner suburbs was very strong with 11 different life science tenants leasing space in the 5 to 15 000 square feet range in the mid to high 50s triple net.
We are tracking approximately 1.6 million square feet of demand in this market split roughly in half between life science and tech users so obviously a very very dynamic and robust market.
The Greater DC market appears to have hits its trough and is rebounding as we lease 203 000 square feet highlighted by a 42 000 square feet lease to an important institute at a 3% in cash increase in a $32 triple net range and the market outlook has been further improved by our recently announced extension of an existing lease and a new long-term lease totaling 135 000 square feet in the aggregate with the NIH at 9800 Medical Center Drive.
Also the Mission Bay market has tightened significantly as UCSF leased 30 000 square feet on the sixth floor at 499 Illinois while a high-quality public biotech company recently signed a lease for the entire fifth floor comprising 43 680 square feet at the start of the fourth quarter.
We have only 8 000 square feet on the first floor and 28 000 square feet on the second floor at 499 and are in active discussions for all of the remaining space with a number of tenants.
Also the South San Francisco submarket the Bay area that continues to improve as we are nearly fully leased in the submarket after executing a lease for approximately 19 000 square feet with one of our second cohort companies in the mid 30s triple net range.
Rounding out the clusters RTP highlights include the 40 000 square foot lease with Novartis that Joel had mentioned San Diego with a 25 000 square feet lease with a very promising public life science company in the mid 30s triple net and the Seattle market consummated lease with a 17 000 square feet tech tenant given the AAA location at 1551 Eastlake in the South Lake Union tech and life science corridor.
Couple of key trends to really highlight here are the emerging company expansion formation is in full swing in Cambridge San Francisco and San Diego.
A recent Barron's article detailing the success of Third Rock Ventures portfolio companies as well as a recent liquidity event for venture firms venBio and Novo of an acquisition of a San Diego biotech company all are contributing to the creation of another platform for demand coming from the life science sector during the next one two and three years.
And also notable to consider the imperative for these life science companies to remain committed to and expand their mission-critical facilities was clearly evident as noted and the lease is consummated in the DC and RTP area.
It’s both a strategic and operational necessity and this positively impacts our franchise.
Finally with the Seattle market’s ability to capture demand from the tech sector this is continuing the trend that was started earlier in the year in the San Francisco Bay Area and positively highlights the desirability of our AAA locations in these key brain trust location clusters and supports rental growth along with our dominant life science client tenant base.
With that I'll hand it over to Dean.
Thanks Steve.
Same property performance for the year of 2013 is solidly on track for our target of about 5% to 7% on a cash basis and up 1% to 3% on a GAAP basis.
Cash-same property performance of 6.5% for year to date ‘13 was driven primarily by contractual annual increases in rent lease up of temporary vacancy in the first half of ’12 specifically in Cambridge at 790 Memorial and 300 Technology Square and rent commencement for Illumina in San Diego in October of 2012.
We completed 461 000 rentable square feet of development and redevelopment projects.
These are detailed on Page 26 of our supplemental package including disclosure of NOI contribution for the second quarter third quarter and fourth-quarter for your models.
On average our initial stabilized yields on a cash and GAAP basis are up 20 basis points and 10 basis points respectively and our average cash yields are up 10 basis points over our prior disclosures.
Debt to adjusted EBITDA was 6.8 times and fixed charge coverage ratio was about 2.8 times and by year-end we're projecting improvement in leverage of approximately 6.5 times and our fixed charge coverage ratio of about 3 times.
Non-income-producing assets drop to 19% of gross real estate down from 23% at the beginning of the year.
Outstanding debt under our bank facilities were reduced by over $800 million or approximately 42% since the beginning of the year.
In addition to the $55 million of land under contract for sale it started to close in December of ’13.
We also have $30 million of additional land sales under negotiations that are targeted to close in 2014.
The largest sale was approximately $20 million to residential developer in Seattle.
As Joel mentioned we expect to continue to identify additional land parcels for sale in 2014.
Our unhedged variable rate debt was 10% as of 9/30 and we anticipate executing additional interest rate swaps or caps in the fourth quarter to mitigate a portion of our future unhedged borrowings.
We updated our EPS guidance on a diluted basis to a range of $0.54 to a $0.58.
We also narrowed our range of guidance for FFO per share as adjusted for 2013 to a range from $4.38 to $4.42 with no change in the midpoint of our guidance.
Detailed guidance assumptions for 2013 are included on Page 4 of our earnings release.
Our guidance this year includes our FFO per share target of a $1.16 for the fourth quarter of 13 representing a $0.10 per share growth over the third quarter of ‘13 driven primarily by the following.
The third quarter of ‘13 development and redevelopment deliveries net of the impact of capped interest is highlighted on Page 26 and that shows the NOI ramp quarter-to-quarter on an FFO basis that’s driving about $0.05 of the growth going from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
We also have some fourth quarter deliveries that are scheduled late mid-December on the West Tower spaces and 4757 Nexus that’s going to drive about $0.01 of FFO per share the acquisition is about $0.01.
We had some early leased extensions at 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South driving about $0.05 some other items of about a penny and then lastly the repayment of about $100 million of our term loan in the quarter with outstanding cash or cash we had on the balance sheet.
Percentage rent at tax recorded in the fourth quarter primarily from parking and the lease up and delivery of space ahead of plan at 951 Gateway drove about a $0.015 so that’s about a $0.10 aggregate growth as we go into the fourth quarter.
With that I will turn it over to Joel.
So operator we are ready for questions if we could please? (Operator Instruction) And our first question will come from Gabe Hilmoe of UBS.
Hi.
Joel just on 75/125 Binney and the potential increase to the cost basis in relation to Ariad’s expansion against the TI’s just so I understand none of the proposed cost for TI’s associated with that expansion.
That would bring up the basis the projects had been spent or planned to be spent at this time.
Is that correct? That’s correct Gabe.
It’s Dean here.
We’re still working on the core and sell and none of the interior improvements have started yet.
Okay.
And I guess following up on that is there anything within the base design that is specific or unique to Ariad using the space.
I guess at this point in time why even consider a design change with an increased cost.
The ultimate tenant is somewhat of an unknown at this point? Yes.
The answer is no.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Jamie Feldman of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great.
Thanks.
I guess just sticking with Ariad and 75/125 Binney.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what happened with Ariad and how we should be thinking about the similar risk and risk to your portfolio or lack of risk? Well I think if you think about what we just said or what I said in the opening remarks 50% of our annual base rent is from investment grade tenants.
I’m not sure how many REITs out there have that kind of credit in their portfolio especially in our world in the biotech and pharma industry but just broadly across even the office -- the office guys.
It’s such a -- over tech guys.
I think it’s pretty extraordinary.
I don’t see any big credit risk at all.
Certainly the -- if you take what Steve said this has been over the past year and half the best of times in the biotech and pharma industry.
There are some exceptions by companies but industry wise this has been the best time since really the hay day of the Internet when biotech also reached to peak back in ‘99 2000 2001.
I think if you look at Ariad biotech is a tough business in general of producing inventing and then going through the development stage and then ultimately producing medicines for the commercial application.
And I would say if you look at almost any number of the top-tier biotechs virtually all of them have been on the brink at one time or another.
I think Tom Andrews reminded me the other day that Ariad’s situation with safety post marketing reminded us of Biogen in the mid 2000s with Tysabri when they were approved in ‘04 pulled from the market in ‘05 put back on the market in ‘06 and had sales approaching $1 billion in 2012.
My own view on Ariad is that the jury is still out.
The story is still to be written.
I think if you look at the deep science behind it it's pretty clear that this product has an impressive scientific feet because it is not only able to hit the CML and the so-called gatekeeper mutations but it could be effective in a range of other potentially even more important cancers including things like GI Cancer thyroid cancer lung cancers which actually have a much much larger potential.
So I think the drop of 75% 80% in their stock that’s happened on a number of occasions to a number of the big guys today.
I think it determine -- it will be determined over the coming weeks months and over a period of time over the next year or two to see what the ultimate story is.
But we are ready for all eventualities.
Okay.
And then can you also talk about your uncovered expirations you give a lot of color on what renewal we do next year but just talk about some of the largest leases that may move out or you just haven’t settled yet? Are we talking about 2014? Yes.
2014.
Yes.
Fortunately Jamie 2014 only has a handful of leases on I think there is two leases that are north of 60 000 square feet and their range are 60 000 to 70 000 square feet.
One space currently have subtenancy unit that will likely extend in that property.
On the other space we clearly expect a renewal on it.
So again the two largest roles for ‘14 are in the 60 000 square foot range.
And the total rolling about a million square feet is 7.4% of the portfolio.
It’s actually well below the average we had.
So we feel pretty good about that.
Okay.
And then finally what do you think your mark-to-market is on 2014 roll? I think we’ll talk more specifically on our Investor Day in December but very broad strokes Jamie I’d say directionally relatively in line with our overall performance on leasing or at least our goals for leasing this year.
You mean leasing the spread similar to 2014? Yes.
The mark-to-market yes on our leasing.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to Anthony Paolone of J.P.
Morgan.
Thank you.
Can you just step back and give us a little bit of context around Ariad in terms of the space? They're supposed to come out of how much of it where it is and also what this may or may not do to just your plans for further projects in Cambridge over the short run? Yes that's a good question.
I don't know the exact amount of square footage they're coming out of space in Forest City.
It's about what 120 000? It's about 120 000 in total and two spaces and I believe their lease is currently go out to roughly 2019 on this space.
Right.
I think there are 26 lands down which is in the Forest City University Park area.
Those buildings -- at least their main building which has been their headquarters building for a long time is a pretty older-like building.
I don't know that it's functionally fit for the company assuming the company continues to make and recover -- make progress and recover from this hit.
So clearly that's a factor.
I think the properties are well over 20 years old.
So when you talk about where they're coming from that's where they're coming from and obviously the expansion was going on one metric and given the safety issues even though it's cancer and then the change in direction on the clinical trial obviously they've announced they are going to do an earnings call on November 6 when they will give kind of an update.
I think the larger question is in both buildings that we have we feel very good about the ability.
We had those today let's say Ariad didn't exist and we have those buildings available for lease in Cambridge both as single-tenant two single tenant buildings or two multi-tenant buildings.
We feel very good about excellent location and they're very functional.
The floor plates are really ideal for kind of lab office.
I think the only impact that we see as we move along on the Binney Street project is clearly we want to see this resolved before we announce any further start which we were thinking about doing in 2014 of 50 Binney.
So we will clearly wait to see how Ariad gets resolved before we do anything there.
So I think that's the practical outcome.
And Steve talked about we're tracking about 600 000 to 800 000 square feet of demand in the Cambridge area some that’s even not known to brokers while we know from CEOs of companies who are looking but haven't engaged brokers.
We know of a shadow pipeline that's even larger than that.
How would net rents have to stack up if you went multi-tenant with those buildings in order to get to the same economics that are penciled in for Ariad now? Well now construction multi-tenant probably is in the low-to-mid 60s.
That’s just where they are today.
Ariad’s rent is north of that.
So there would be a difference but I’m presuming Ariad is not folding up its tent and going away.
Very few companies do that.
Beyond this drug the company does have a pipeline but I believe and I think others believe that this drug has some greater use than the CML use.
And if they are successful in treating other types of cancer this could be a Tysabri story again.
And I think again we’ll have to see.
Okay.
Thanks.
On acquisitions and dispositions on the land sales what was the reason for just less of those occurring? And did that tie in at all to the acquisition pipeline? Did those come down? Did one drive the other or are they for separate reasons? No.
I think you know just in this business and in any business of selling a land it is extraordinarily like pulling teeth.
We’ve had a number of sales through the year.
I think we’ve done pretty well.
We’ve got a number teed up and others that were looking to move forward.
It’s just one of our timing and diligence and also where you have to repurpose the use.
It just takes time.
Buyers aren’t willing necessarily especially if you’ve got a resi situation to take the property without contingency.
So we just have to be patient and I am sure we’ll be able to do a good job of hitting some important targets as we get through the fourth quarter and well into 2014.
And on the acquisition side? Hey Tony this is Peter.
There are just two good opportunities.
One in our TP was a credit tenant a tenant that we have a great relationship with and want to build an even better one.
At long term lease and pricing was very good.
And they were actually very instrumental in getting us involved in this property which is sometimes unusual when it comes from a tenant.
Right.
So we really like that one and then the Barnes Canyon one in San Diego was something that Dan Ryan had looked at decade ago.
It’s near the San Diego Tech Center.
It’s a very vibrant area.
There are lot of tenants in and around there because of the amenities and the access to the highway.
And he really came in and said look we could get this for a very reasonable price.
And I’ve got plans to redevelop it.
And I think we could really hit a homerun.
And so far that seems to be playing out.
We have two tenants in that projects right now one of them will be expiring by the end of the year but we’re already talking to tenant to backfill that space and a nice incremental yield.
So both projects were very good opportunities and we wanted to capitalize on that.
So we did.
And we looked at -- I mean if you look at there is a large volume of projects in the market today.
And we have said on other calls we kind of think strategic optionality is the best way to think about it.
We look at everything and we should be aware of everything and it’s been a pretty active market issuance.
Peter also highlighted two deals we looked at but didn’t pursue that ultimately closed.
Yes.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Jeff Theiler of Green Street Advisors.
Hi.
Just quickly to follow up on that acquisition line of questioning.
So it wasn’t necessarily that there weren’t opportunities out there? Was it just that the pricing was out of whack or are there things that are still in negotiations that might end up closing early next year? Just trying to figure out the reduction in guidance and that kind of thing?  Well I think -- I think it’s a combination of a number of things.
Sometimes there are -- there may be acquisitions.
Peter could tell you we’re tracking well -- well over a billion dollars and then in quite a numbers of markets we turned down a deal in San Francisco that was almost $250 million.
So we’re looking at the bunch of things but I think again what our view is at the beginning of the year obviously is tempered by what plays out during the year.
Some things were put on the market pulled off the market.
So I think again we’re just looking.
Our key driver is obviously to deploy capital to the highest accretive use.
And Peter you could comment further if you want? Yes.
Just to comment on the -- the reason that we haven’t met the original guidance on acquisition does not have anything to do with the amount of opportunities available.
It has really been our selectivity on when where we wanted to place the capital.
What we do next year we’ll see at this point in time.
I’m sure we’ll give better guidance at our Investor Day but there are plenty of thing available and not just in one or two markets but really broadly across all of our clusters.
And did you gave any updates on your progress in China and contributing your assets to the health care platform? I would say we have no updates since last quarter.
We are still working on that but Steve you could talk about the one lease we’re about to sign in South China.
In South China we have a lease out for signature that will be finalizing shortly here that will lease the balance of the projects there.
So that one particular facility will be fully stabilized and again that should be done very shortly here with a credit tenant.
All right.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jeff.
And next we have Sheila McGrath of Evercore.
Yes.
Joel I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about 29th Street coming online in fourth quarter.
That's just part of the building.
So is there going to be any impact in fourth quarter and then also just on the shadow pipeline of leasing at that property how you think demand is shaping up? Yes.
Dean can give you a little bit more details on the onboarding of income but we do -- we will deliver to Roche in December.
We also have find as you know a lease with a credit tenant for 12000 additional fee.
And as I highlighted in my commentary we’ve got a number of tenants both credit and non-credit that we’re actually not training people or not just -- at a lot of intent stage we’re actually at a more robust lease negotiation stage for an additional approaching 84 000 square feet could be three or four users.
So that would bring us up and I think there’s a high probability of virtually all that happening.
So that would bring us up to about 68% almost 70% by year end.
Which I think would be pretty -- pretty amazingly dramatic.
We feel very good.
There is a good demand in the market place.
We have interest from Europe from Japan obviously domestically.
So we see it as -- as we said and as we told the city of New York we view this as a destination.
Dean I don’t know if you want to comment on it.
Yes.
Sheila the answer to your question as far as contribution it’s roughly call it 700 000 of NOI coming in that’s fairly small because its being delivered call it mid December and so -- when you roll it into the first quarter you get a nice (inaudible) adjustment.
Yes.
So if were at 68% or almost 70% we aren’t including in there additional -- we're hoping Roche expense in the project.
None of the 84 000 square feet under lease negotiation right now includes Roche expansion but we just had Franz Humer in the building.
And he basically told the packed audience including the deputy mayor and quite a number of other dignitaries that he was certain that Roche would want to expanded its footprints.
So we hope that it is a 2014 event as well.
Sheila let me just add.
I think as you keep in mind this project which commenced about 12 months ago.
So we’re fortunate to be able to actually deliver space as quickly as we can later this year.
And we’re going to continue to work on the fed up and lease up with the remainder of the space.
So I think I have taken some questions over time where the capitalization would see in ‘14.
I don’t expect it on the project as we had quite a bit of construction to continue to lease up.
Okay.
And also Steve Richardson I think in the prepared remarks mentioned another platform of demand.
I'm not sure if I really understood that if you could just go into a little bit more detail on that? Sheila just to add or to clarify that.
We’ve just seen a real resurgence in the emerging companies both at the formation stage and the expansion stage.
So as I referenced the Cambridge market there had 11 different leases all between 5 000 and 15 000 square feet.
And we’ve just seen historically that those will mature and a number of them will advance.
So we’ve seen quite a bit of growth.
The same thing is happening in the south San Francisco market.
Now historically we’ve talked about the large overhang there from the Amgen blocks of space but when you segment the market for smaller box of space say 10 000 to 50 000 square feet you’ve only got 2.9% vacancy.
So again field by venture capital firms that have a lot of liquidity through M&amp;A activity through IPOs and so you are really setting the stage for another cycle of demand as we did number of years ago.
Okay.
And last question.
499 Illinois you've made a lot of progress there if you could give us a little bit more detail on how you think leasing shapes up in the next couple of quarters there? Specifically we’ve just got the 8 000 square feet left on the first floor 28 000 square feet on the second floor.
We have roughly a million square feet portfolio in Mission Bay so this represents the last remaining space.
We are in active discussions with people for all of that space and I would expect probably be two or three tenants.
And if we are not completed by the end of the year it would be very shortly after what maybe just one small piece remaining.
But our hope would be we would have that completed close to year end.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Sheila.
And next from Citi we have Emmanuel Korchman.
Hey guys.
If we think about the Ariad project just for one more second.
Have you guys -- Hello.
Are we still on? Hello can you hear me? Nope you blanked out so repeat the questions.
Just thinking about Ariad for another second or the Binney project have you been in any discussions with them maybe before the November 6 plans release to get some comfort on the timing of when they might come to you and perhaps take back some of that space now while you do see other demand in the market? We’ve had some ongoing discussions but I think it’s fair to say the November 6 is important date because they’ll publicly unveil their reorganization plan to address the issues that have been kind of trust upon them.
So any substantive progress has got to wait for that public unveiling.
But yes we’ve had ongoing discussions so but I’m not at the moment able to tell you anything more.
Thanks for that Joel and then one other one for me.
Sure.
Maybe we all know that biotech at times can be a volatile space and we've seen Ariad news we saw Tysabri a few years ago.
Has any of that changed sort of the way you approach deals or have Amanda and her team changed the way they underwrite deals or is there anything else that you as a landlord to sort of the biotech space can you change anything that you're doing or have been doing to get more comfort or security? Yeah.
That’s a super great question and as soon as we found out about this we asked our self that exact same question.
And so one thing that’s pretty shocking that happens rarely Tysabri is maybe a good example.
Obviously Ariad’s drug is one of the latest example.
But it’s pretty unusual when you have a product that’s been allowed on the market by the FDA and cancer is different than some of the chronic diseases because cancers are generally terminable by and large in many cases.
How a safety profile arose the way it arose I think that was pretty surprising and pretty unusual.
I don’t really want to comment more beyond that but I would say that was pretty unusual.
And I think there will be a lot discussed in the New England Journal commentary on November 7th about dosing and that’s obviously a critical issue.
But let me just say this this was pretty unusual.
What you normally find is a company that’s working on development and then the product just doesn’t work.
In other words the clinical trial was a bust and everybody goes home and the company goes on either with another pipeline product or if they are one-trick pony then that’s it and that’s few and far between.
Most have multiple pipelines but I think the safety profile issue coming up the way it does I think it’s unknown at the moment at least to those of us who have seen just the base data.
How many people had cardio problems going into the trial who had preexisting issues? I think that’s an issue that has to be explored.
There is a whole range of things so I think the answer is you really have a couple of choices.
If you do a I mean we didn’t go forward with Ariad until the product was approved and that gave us a high level of confidence obviously one doesn’t anticipate very often the safety issue coming back.
But yeah we will be very thoughtful and careful about how we think about development projects even the companies that have a single product on the market as we go forward in the past I think that wasn’t of greater concern but obviously this shows that it needs to be even if it’s once in a every few years it still is a big question.
But I do believe as I said I think the nature of this product I think Ariad’s got a good shot if they can respond to the FDA properly.
And if they are able to use this in a broader set of indications this could be an interesting product assuming it’s not CML limited.
But anyway the answer in short is yes we are clearly looking carefully.
And then maybe a quick one for either Dean or Peter.
On your acquisition commentary in the sort of lower guidance there am I fair to assume that those projects have sort of fallen out since you raised equity and gave the higher guidance? Or better said is the pipeline of acquisitions now just smaller as valuations have gone up? Well I think the set that we are looking at has stayed pretty large throughout the entire year.
I think as Peter said it’s the selectivity that’s been unusual and also I think again if something doesn’t really line up we generally pass on it.
But also there is a cycle of bringing things through the acquisition pipeline in some but not ours but sellers and it takes a whole lot of time.
I don’t know Peter you could comment.
Yeah.
I mean there certainly could have been a couple of things that had they just gone another way we could have easily sold it.
But the negotiation cycle takes a while and because our product is actually a very invoked product people -- in fact there is more and more investors that really like it.
You get into some competitive situations then you feel like hey go ahead let this other guy pay that price forward we will get the next one.
So I think this is just as simple as that.
There has been plenty of opportunities.
It’s just we are very selective and I think that you guys will quite appreciate that.
And I mean I think one property that Peter will comment on next quarter it hasn’t closed and it’s in process is I wont say where it is.
I mean what it is but it’s a property in Cambridge.
It’s a property we were kind of interested in but as we heard the whisper number and it’s a good size property maybe in the -- I can’t remember the exact amount but pretty good size combination of office and lab.
When we heard the whisper number we just kind of pulled away and said that doesn’t really make sense and so we didn’t even bid on it.
But there was a pretty fierce bidding war among the number of institutional investors and a whole lot of pension funds we heard.
But that was one that again when it started when it came up on our pipeline we said wow.
Given location to us we’ve really liked it liked the combination but then when it got to the point of what brokers were putting out on the market as the whisper number we just said it just wasn’t of interest to us.
So I mean that’s a good example.
Thanks for that guys.
Yeah thank you.
(Operators Instruction) We’ll go next to George Auerbach of ISI Group.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Dean or Joel as you look into 2014 on the development spend number if 50 Binney is kind of out of the running and I'd think that the third building in New York would be out just because of the leased up efforts on the second tower.
How do you see development spend trending next year? Yeah I think what we’ll do is let and what you just said is correct we wouldn’t see starting the Third Tower in New York little too early.
We’ve got some leasing to do and clearly until Ariad is resolved to our satisfaction we wouldn’t kick-off another project on Binney.
But we’ll update and we’ll give you very granular detail on the spend number for ’14 when we do our Investor Day.
I don’t think I want to preempt at this point.
Okay.
And maybe just a follow-up on well Tony’s question about the land sales.
Yeah.
I think you mentioned that they sort of flip into next year so we sort of expect a similar amount of land sales in next -- in 2014? Well we do have under negotiation as what I commented on which is the $30 million but we have also broadly accommodated George that we are looking at different parcels and I think we will provide more color over Investor Day and possibly the next couple quarters on exactly what we might monetize next year.
Yeah.
But it should we would hope that it would be well north of that.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks George.
Our next question will come from Dave Rodgers of Robert W.
Baird.
Yeah.
Good afternoon.
Maybe Joel or Steve for one of you.
You have done a great job leasing up space you have gone from a 2.5 million square feet of availability on our numbers down to closer to about a million square feet? Currently I guess one of the question I would have for you is do you see more of a restricted ability to lease space just due to availability next year to that we should kind of expecting as we think about 2014 leasing guidance? And can you perhaps talk about any kind of stubborn vacancies in that number where you are seeing a little bit better traction? Dave I think again looking at the 2014 rolls and we have got probably a good 30% under negotiations there only about 600 000 square feet remaining half of that is in the mix of Boston in the Bay area.
So I think we will have plenty of quality leasing opportunities there.
We have talked about near-term development and redevelopment opportunities whether they might emerge from acquisitions that Peters had talked about or that we have highlighted in the supplemental as well.
So I think we have plenty of near-term growth opportunities both in the operating portfolio and the development and redevelopment portfolio as well.
And I guess just given where the leasing spreads are given where the vacancy in the portfolio is and the demand profile you are seeing the question before I guess was would you see accelerating more development starts? I guess take it more broadly and say do you have kind of a limit or a target as percentage of enterprise value that you would like to see kind of development get up to given your comments Joel about how strong the market is today relative to what’s been over the last five or 10 years? Yeah.
I think we look at it on a submarket by submarket basis.
I think if you look at the supplement pretty closely you can see us pushing forward a couple of parcels in Seattle.
We have very robust demand up there and we have very little product to meet that demand similar in San Diego.
I think that’s also true.
So I think you will see those two markets will be pushing ahead both development and redevelopments New York no obviously Cambridge no until 75/125 is resolved.
We do have -- we have done a good job of leasing space up in Maryland.
We are getting tighter there even in North Carolina.
I was at the meeting the other day and there was interesting immediate requirement for a fairly large amount of space we can’t deal with but we are hoping to capture the long-term opportunity through a development there.
So yeah it’s a little bit of a good conundrum or quandary where we have demand and we don’t necessarily have absolutely immediately available space of the size that they are looking for I guess that’s a good thing.
And remember too I think this sector and the sector obviously go through its own mutations but is less dependent upon the general economic environment and much more dependent upon it’s really event driven and so that’s what we have to be focused on.
On chronic vacancy you mentioned do we have any spaces? We did have a few spaces in the suburbs say at Massachusetts over the past year or two that or three years that we viewed as chronic.
We had trouble getting traction.
We had one tenant we do something with and then it kind of flaked out on us.
But we have been very successful Tom in the team of leasing virtually all the chronic vacancy.
I don’t know Peter or Steve if you know of anything out there that today we would say is just tough space.
There are some buildings that may have like a basement level space of 5 000 to 10 000 that just happens that isn’t ideal but short of that kind of a minor rounding everything I don’t think we have much.
We used to do well we’ve focus on that pretty much but a lot of that was in the 495 corridor out in the outer suburbs of Mass.
Right.
So we did resolve those.
Yeah.
Peter Moglia And.
And we haven’t really had much out since then.
Yeah.
And I think our dispositions that we made late last year and early this year helped not only to give us some capital to recycle they helped resolve some of the submarket issues we just were in love with and I think that turned out to be a good thing for us.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just final question.
I guess touching on those dispositions or potential future dispositions I know you have got the portfolio largely where you would like it? But given the pricing you talked about in the market today? You can kind of re-contemplate either some joint venture sales where you would kind of maintain some management and ownership or just more outright sales to continue to improve the balance sheet? I think on the income producing side there might be minor things in like Pennsylvania asset or this asset or that asset but nothing that would be of almost any substance.
We don’t have anything that we are targeting right now specifically.
If somebody came by and gave us an offer we might consider it in a secondary or tertiary submarket but we don’t have a think plan.
I think on our game plan for 2014 Dean is that a fair statement? Yeah.
That’s true.
There might be a couple very small things very small things very small in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
So from an analyst and investors who have told us to sell like the New York asset or some like that to establish a benchmark but we are smarter than that.
Doesn’t make any sense? Yeah.
Don’t do that.
Great.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And next is Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
On page 29 your supplement how should we think about the near-term development projects when could these be actually be started and is there kind of a way we should think about that? Absolutely as I just mentioned Mike we clearly while 50 and 100 residential on Binney obviously we are moving forward with a bunch of infrastructure and things like that we have to do.
But as far as moving round up we certainly aren’t going to do that till Ariad area is resolved.
I think you will see us move Science Park pretty quickly.
I think Illumina will move at some point here Campus point as well New York will hold off and then both Seattle’s will move.
So I think of the ones I mentioned and I mentioned just a moment ago San Diego and Seattle I think you will see move pretty rapidly in 2014.
We are trying to make sure we have the entitlements perfected in any upzoning for increased FAR to get maximum advantage and then in Seattle we have literary tenants in hand who we know need space so that would probably go very fast in San Diego.
We know also Illumina has certain demands.
We know down there LIlly UCSD have demand on space and in the Science Park we have Dean circled a tenant or two.
So I think on Investor Day we will give you a more detailed rollout of those but I think you will see those move ahead aggressively in predevelopment and hopefully as best as possible in development where it makes sense where we have got a target of tenant.
We clearly won’t do just random spec development but we will make sure we have got tenants soft circled or hard circled.
Okay.
And then as 50 Binney Street still kind of your mark for a tact tenant and use one to delay that project to be conservative what happened to 75/125? Well yeah the answer is we are trying to get a approval to divide that building into two buildings.
We think one would be easy for tech because we have been approached on that by tech opportunities and the other potentially so it would be 200 and somewhat 1000 square feet building so we are going through the design work and the approval work right now.
But yeah we still would like to go maybe one tech and one lab there but we wouldn’t start anything at all even if it was tech just until we resolve 75/125 to our satisfaction.
Okay.
Is there any update on the India transaction? Have you received any significant interest from those assets? Yeah.
We are as I said looking for an investment partner to go forward with this platform we think it’s a great platform it’s lead by our number one Novartis.
We think it offers a great opportunity and we are well into discussions and we hope that we can bring in a partner to really help us move that platform forward.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And we have time for one final question and that will come from Emmanuel Korchman of Citi.
Thanks guys.
Just one very quick question.
Real capital analytics seems to picked up in acquisition credited do you guys of a Walgreen's in Anaheim.
Was that...
Yeah.
We did it.
That’s new headquarters.
Now don’t know anything about it.
Let’s Peter have doing random he has gone road.
Actually that was Steve you’ve it wasn’t a part of 1030.
Right.
It was part of an OP unit transaction that we had consummated several years ago up in South San Francisco with a partnership there and so as part of the recapitalization in the OP units yes we did acquire that Walgreen’s for this partner.
Right.
Thank you for that.
But we don’t know that.
Clear.
Our partner owns it.
Just to be clear.
Perfect.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This was all the questions that we had for today.
I’d like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
We want to just thank you very much and we’ll talk to you on year end and fourth quarter in February.
Thanks again everybody.
And with that everyone that does conclude today’s conference.
Well we’d like to thank you again for your participation.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Vickie and I’ll be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody.
With me are Dean Steve Peter Marc and Andres and wish you everybody a very Happy New Year.
On the fourth quarter and year-end I think the quote at the beginning of the press release summed up I think the year 2013 where it really demonstrated the return in strength of the core operations completion of significant value-add Class A development projects in our AAA locations in our urban science and technology cluster markets and really the completion of many significant and important improvements in our long-term capital structure.
I think what 2013 also showed us based on fourth quarter and year leasing is that the strong demand in these key cluster markets really has returned in a rather robust way and we're very pleased about that.
Our fully integrated smart teams in each of the regions obviously have a lot to do with the delivery of these results and as Dean will talk more about the balance sheet balance sheet is in very good shape to support solid and stable growth with continuous on boarding of our EBITDA from the value-add pipeline.
A few macro comments for 2013 many of you know it was really a banner year for biotech and pharma after a long drought.
46 U.S.
biotech companies priced IPOs the most in 13 years and about $3.5 billion was raised as new money and venture funds which had a few years of tough flooding.
And importantly to us pharma has continued in an inexorable fashion toward their external innovation hub model into our core cluster markets and we benefitted pretty greatly by that.
And interestingly enough small companies invented most of the big drugs that received approval in 2013 and I'm also pleased to report that 59% of all drug approvals by the FDA in 2013 were actually Alexandria tenants.
So that's a great testament to our underwriting.
Also the emergence of several I think huge new classes of drugs and drug targets including the immuno-oncology area the non-alcoholic liver disease area which has caught fever lately and then importantly RNA therapeutics.
If we go on to operations and internal growth the demand for our product in our core cluster markets and really ARE as the premier landlord hit an all-time high.
We’re pleased to report and Dean will talk about the solid same store results and we expect the same to continue in 2014.
Occupancy continues to be strong and we believe will continue to increase in 2014 and I think Steve will talk about leasing fourth quarter and 2013; an all-time high with solid spreads on those leases.
Pleased to report which is kind of interesting that Maryland actually had the highest leasing volume of all the regions in the fourth quarter with 391 000 square feet or 29% of all leases signed a big change from the last few years.
And San Francisco had the highest leasing volume for 2013 overall almost 1 million square feet at about 27%.
So that’s all really good news.
External growth we delivered the final redevelopment to Genomatica in San Diego and also about 189 000 square feet out of our West Tower at the Alexandria Center for Life Science our flagship campus in New York City to tenants including Roche and NYU.
We’re working on new leases with a public biotech company and a private biotech company.
We hope to report here in the not too distant future.
And one setback we had was one set of negotiations with an existing tenant for expansion of about 30 000 square feet was deferred.
Moving on the 75/125 Binney ARIAD has confirmed they will proceed under the lease.
They may or may not choose to sublease all or part of the smaller building but it’s pretty clear based on their own statements that the 26 Landsdowne property is functionally obsolete for their needs.
In Longwood we’ve seen slower leasing than anticipated due to institutional concerns regarding NIH funding which we hope will be restored over the coming year.
And this really impacts the top tier not so much but certainly any institutions other than the top tier I think have to worry a lot but since Longwood medical is really the five great hospitals they aren’t impacted nearly as much but still they are concerned about the trend there.
So we’ve got a new marketing push we’re instigating this month just a week from now and we’re also seeing demand from the institutions potentially to buy condo pieces out of their capital budgets as opposed to leasing through the operating budgets.
So let’s see where it goes.
Area strategic optionality for growth we’ve got as you know multiple platforms which have enabled us to be opportunistic in Cambridge and San Diego regarding acquisitions over the last 90 days and we’re pleased about that.
On the balance sheet as many of you know at Lehman we carried 2.5 million square feet of land at Mission Bay that’s now been fully built or monetized and about 2 million square feet in Cambridge and about half of that is underway.
We achieved our investment grade rating and our target zone of leverage thereafter and we’re pleased that we’ll continue to onboard a lot of EBITDA from those projects and we’re glad we carried those through the financial crisis but it certainly wasn’t easy.
Probably most importantly ARE now has the full range of capital choices available and will utilize the most capital efficient and effective tools in our arsenal as we grow our earnings going forward in 2014 and beyond.
And then likely in 2014 we’ll see land sales and land sales of joint venture that will likely involve multiple markets to take advantage of really an unusual current strong existing tenant demand coupled with the demand that’s known in the market more broadly.
And then finally a comment on the dividend.
The Board will continue its policy to share increasing cash flows with investors as we maintain a low dividend payout ratio I think about 60% at the year end.
So I’m going to ask Peter Moglia to comment on some of the capital markets’ matters.
Sure.
Thanks Joel.
So there were two notable trades from other investors in the third quarter and I’m going to take you through them.
One Kendall Square 670 000 square foot nine building office lab camp located in Kendall Square East Cambridge was sold by Rockwood Capital to DivcoWest for $395 million or $590 per square foot.
The property is anchored by Merrimack Pharmaceuticals which occupies approximately 80% of the property but there is very little in the way of credit tenancies there.
The majority of the tenancies really early stage life science and tech companies who enjoy the retail amenities offered by the property.
We estimate the cap rate to be about 5.75% and understand that the property had close to 10 bidders in the final round including real estate investment funds all domestic money; institutional money with operating partners and REITs.
So Alexandria looked at this property a number of times and now we are very pleased with the location.
We dropped out really when the price became out of balance with the credit profile and the duration of the tendency.
We also believe there is a lot of CapEx needed to update the building’s infrastructure.
So the price was just a little heavy for us.
245 First Street which is also known as Riverview and located in East Cambridge was sold by Equity Office Properties to Jamestown which is a Core and Core Plus investor for $192.6 million or $647 per square.
That property includes the Cambridge Life Science Center which is a low-rise lab building which is connected to an office tower that includes nine levels of above ground parking by a three-story atrium.
The main tenant there is the Forsyth Institute which is a nonprofit research organization and we estimate the cap rate on that sale to be approximately 5.9% and understand that there were three final bidders including a pension fund advisor a public REIT and Jamestown the ultimate buyer.
So although this is a great location actually very close to our 250 First Street property.
We declined to pursue the opportunity because we felt the pricing expectations did not match the B quality of the profile of buildings.
So with that I’ll pass it over to Steve.
Thank you Peter.
The solid core operating performance during 2013 in our key brain trust cluster locations is continuing as we work our way through the first quarter of 2014.
The trajectory of the mark-to-market metric evidenced by the gap increase of 18.2% this past quarter is very encouraging as it highlights the increasing value and strength of the company’s core class A assets in these AAA locations.
We’ve seen a clear sense of urgency to secure and lock down space returning to the market as we’re approaching high occupancy rates in each of our key clusters.
This is translating directly to enhanced activity in our 2014 and 2015 roles.
We have just 491 000 square feet remaining to resolve in 2014.
We’re only 3.3% of our operating asset base.
Nearly half of that is concentrated in Boston and San Francisco two of the hardest markets.
We’re also getting out in front of our 2015 rollovers and engaging in discussions with key clients and we’ll move on to the details and activity in these clusters.
We’ve seen the lease rates in Cambridge increasing approximately 10% year-over-year and now range in the mid to high 50s for existing product with build-to-suit projects pricing at $70 triple net.
We’re tracking approximately 640 000 square feet of known life science demand with more behind it and another 1.6 million square feet of demand from tech users.
The mark-to-market for rollovers this year excluding one legacy these is 7.5% and 14.6% on a cash and GAAP basis in Cambridge.
Moving over to San Francisco the rents in Mission Bay have increased approximately 15% during the past year.
They’re now in the mid-40s triple net.
We’ve also seen that South Francisco submarket experienced lease rate increases in this range during 2013 and on a mark-to-market basis still remain 20% below historic levels.
The mark-to-market for rollovers we anticipate resolving this year in the Bay area will be slightly positive cash and a very healthy 10% on a GAAP basis.
Demand remains very robust with 1 million square feet of life science and 7 million square feet of tech tenant requirements in a broader San Francisco to Silicon Valley marketplace.
San Diego’s activity is highlighted by a decrease in the direct vacancy on the Torrey Pines Bluff growth of 144 basis points from 10.1% to 8.66% at a time when we have significant activity on our Class A spectrum project located on Science Park Road.
Rents have increased 7% from last year to the upper 30s triple net in the submarket and we’re currently tracking 1.2 million square feet of high-quality demand across the three key clusters in San Diego.
Moving back east to Maryland we’ve seen a steady increase from its trough.
Joe had noted a key lease execution there and we anticipate mark-to-market rent with a healthy 10% increase for rollovers this year.
And the regional team is tracking another 0.25 million square feet of demand with an emphasis on high-quality space.
Moving back to the northwest the Seattle market is experiencing pent-up demand as we’re tracking and engage with tenants seeking a total set of requirements of about 280 000 feet.
We’re extremely well-positioned with our development opportunities in the heart of South Lake Union which many know is also experiencing a boom in demand from the tech sector.
Finally wrapping up in the southeast the RTP market has tightened considerably over the past year with the 190 bps decrease in vacancy to 10.6% and we’re tracking about 90 000 square feet demand in the market and do anticipate a very healthy mark-to-market GAAP rents approaching 20% increases.
With that I’ll turn it over to Dean.
Thanks Steve.
Jumping right in the same-property performance for 2013 was very solid about $17.4 million or 5.4% on cash basis and up $6 million or 1.8% on a GAAP basis.
Cash same-property performance for 2013 was driven primarily by our favorable lease structure again 95% contained annual contractual steps in rent and 94% of our leases are triple net.
Other drivers included lease up of temporary vacancy in the first of 2012 in Cambridge at 790 Memorial and 300 Technology Square and rent commencement for Illumina in San Diego in October of 2012.
Briefly on value creation projects that were completed in the fourth quarter we hit a major milestone with the completion in December and the delivery of the first portion of our second class A lab building in New York City.
This delivery is about 12 months and two weeks after the delivery of a crane to the site in early December of 2012.
Major construction activities and capitalization of interest is forecasted to continue through the remainder of the project.
Overall yields are on track with our disclosures.
In fact I think you’ll find that we’ll be well ahead meaningful ahead when we're done with this project but let us work through the remainder of the lease-up there.
We also completed the redevelopment of 4757 Nexus Center.
79% of the project was delivered at the end of October and the remainder of the project will be delivered over the next 18 to 24 months.
I got a few comments on the balance sheet.
First the timing of closing the purchase of 150 Second Street in Cambridge resulted in debt-to-EBITDA at 6.6 times a year end.
On a pro forma basis assuming a full period of EBITDA from the acquisition leverage is right on target at 6.5 times.
Timing of transactions spending and EBITDA growth will result in some increases and decreases in leverage quarter-to-quarter.
Our overall goals for debt to adjusted EBITDA and our fixed charge coverage ratio have not changed.
These metrics will continue to range within reason quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and our growth in cash flows and EBITDA will allow us to maintain solid credit metrics.
We increased our land sales target in our guidance at the midpoint by about $125 million related to the projected sale of a partial interest in certain near-term development land parcels.
We also eliminated our prior guidance of $250 million of issuances of common equity through our ATM program in 2014.
The timing of the sale of an interest in certain land parcels is conservative and earlier than our previous common equity assumptions and therefore these changes resulted in no impact to our overall guidance in FFO per share.
The remaining $125 million in sources of capital was an increase in debt.
On January 31 we repaid $209 million of our 5.6% secured loan related to our 1.2 million square foot campus at Alexandria Technology Square in Cambridge.
Our fourth quarter annualized NOI was approximately $67 million really double the NOI that was in place at acquisition.
That really brings our cash yield on this project to 8.5% today based on our gross real estate investment to date.
Our total unencumbered NOI as a result of repaying this debt will increase to 85%.
Outstanding debt under our bank facilities was reduced by over $600 million or approximately 32% since December 31 2012.
I’d like to touch briefly on our strategy for bank debt outstanding on our credit facilities.
As of 12/31 we had about $1.3 billion outstanding under the three facilities down meaningfully from this time last year.
$950 million or 73% of our outstanding debt under the facilities is subject interest rate swap contracts with various swaps maturing through early 2017.
We strategically maintain unhedged variable rate debt to provide flexibility to opportunistically refinance our debt.
Our interest rate swap agreements are considered from time to time and further mitigate interest rate risk of both in notional and in effect each month as well as extending swap contracts beyond 2017.
We plan to repay outstanding borrowings each year under our $500 million unsecured term loan until the loan is repaid in full by its maturity in July of 2016.
Repayment of this loan over the next few years will reduce our credit facilities by 16% to approximately 26% of total debt.
Additionally as our capital structure grows over the next several years Bank debt will also become a smaller portion of our capital structure.
More importantly we will continue to focus on improvement in our capital structure while we also focus on optionality that drive stable and solid growth in bottom-line per share earnings and growth and asset value.
Lastly for guidance we updated EPS diluted to a range of $1.75 to $1.95 and we reaffirmed our guidance for FFO per share as adjusted for 2014 at a range $4.60 to $4.80.
With that I’ll turn it back to Joel.
So operator we’d like to go to the Q&amp;A at this point please.
Yes thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take the first question that from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Joel maybe if we can focus on your life science investment platform for a second.
You’ve got a $140 million of investments on balance sheet I believe the majority of that’s in private companies rather than public ones.
And then I’ll get mark-to-market on the balance sheet so if were to take to the total value of sort of the investments that Alexandria has made over time.
Where would that be versus that $140 million on the balance sheet? Yes that’s a good question.
Thanks very much.
Maybe just one step back very useful to say why we do what we do and that is we think really a couple of reasons one is it gives us the strategic window into really breakthrough science and product opportunities that ultimately in many cases lead to tenancies.
Number 2 it gives us an unparalleled knowledge of industry trends and how we should be thinking about Banks three it allows us the homes are skilled based and underwriting tenants and obviously very importantly our financial returns.
I think right now is that amount is about 1.7% 1.8% of total assets I think we’ve got a solid ROI over the past number of years.
I would say that given where the BATAC [ph] sector has gone over the past year or two.
We would clearly be well above market on marking those marking-to-market those private investments.
We’re participated in some of the most important companies and we know that those companies have huge upside and huge market opportunities.
So we feel very good about we’re positioned.
So I think the true impairments that we recognized shouldn’t be at all looked out as an indicator of kind of where that value is today the two impairments one related to a company that actually started a number of years ago and that has been winding down over period of time and the other was a clean tech asset if you work 60 minutes in the North coastal couple of weeks ago that market has really not down as well.
So the core therapeutic life science investments have really done well and we are very comfortable with where we are on that.
So I hope that gives you some color.
It’s worth saying but kind of ascribing a more fair value in our NAVs how should we think about two times that $140 three times just if we want a sort of a more fully big number?  I’m going to ask the account mister.
Yes I would say that the large majority of that investment portfolio is held at cost and you probably realize that over the years we’ve been able to end up with significant liquidity events that have realized gains and I think in the backdrop of where life science biotech companies are valued today you are probably comfortably at true-ups on cost and this is all historical rules early entry point investments on these underlying life science companies.
So I think on average there and like we said we took two charges that aren’t reflective of the overall valuation.
Thanks Dean.
And then one other question for you maybe.
What drove the decision to increase the land sales on the JV agreements rather than doing the A10 [ph] as we discussed in December? Yes I think part of this was now that we have gotten to a point where the balance sheet and on boarding of EBITDA will help our future will really fuel and gives us a platform to grow now more consistently and certainly a bit likely we had for Lehman.
It seemed to us after a lot of internal discussions and discussions with those outside that if we do not increase our share count this year through offerings it will I think be a good demonstration that the company can grow nicely without relying on common equity.
And I think that was a little bit of the core of how we thought about it.
I think you guys commented directly on the last call and asked that question and I think we have clearly given some very deep thoughts about and I think irrespective of whether our stock was at 60 or 61 or 70 we feel that by working with a joint venture partner who can provide us immediate capital and a flexible structure to help us monetize and ultimately on board cash from development parcels where we have the ability to tenant some of those properties today to the firm to later on doesn’t make sense.
That will be other thing that really drove the extraordinary demand in the market some of which is known and some of which isn’t.
And I think those things kind of can do a confluence but made us move in this different direction.
Perfect.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Great thank you.
I guess speaking with the JV can you just talk a little bit more about your progress and timing and size and what we should be thinking in kind of what you're seeing at pricing as well?  Well let me comment on maybe the targets.
We have three buildings left to build in the Binney Street project 50 60 and 100 Binney totaling almost 1 million square feet.
We know there is significant demand in the market.
We also have some significant demand from tenants of ours.
We’d like to move that forward.
So that would certainly be higher priority but as you know we’ve got them.
We just delivered the Biogen Idec transaction at 225 Binney and we’re all underway at 75 125 for ARIAD.
So having a partner who would provide us significant amount of capital for the other Binney projects is very desirable.
Similarly in Seattle where we know there is immediate demand those would be the other locations that we’re interested in.
We have to-date I think about eight meetings very high quality you might call blue-chip investors were working on CDAs and turned the deals beyond that I don’t think I want to speculate about the nature of those discussions or the terms that are being talked about but I would say it’s fair to say we joint ventured the Longwood project back about a year or two ago Peter led that effort with a high-quality investor in Clarion 50% of that transaction.
So I think we have knowledge and the skill base to bring on a very high quality investor that has kind of a D&amp;A thinking about how we think and so that’s kind of where we’re headed here.
Okay.
And now getting back to your private investment portfolio what would be the timing where you would set to harvest some of that value?  We do kind of continuously and we’ve seen a lot of you might think about this and this goes back to the question many asked gains are conservative guide by nature.
So I won’t overrule this max number but if you think about we have quite a few private investments some of which have gone public or in the processes of going public so that gives us a nice opportunity once they do goes to market and then also obviously to think about are there times where we would access most IPOs you are generally locked up 180 days.
But I think we’ve had very good results and we are very comfortable with where we are.
Yes Jamie then I think I can add this if you look back the last couple of years we probably averaged somewhere between gross gains somewhere of $10 million to $15 million and sometimes larger than that.
So it’s been a pretty consistent opportunity to realize gains over time.
And those were tougher years because the market wasn’t nearly as buoyant as that has been over the last year or so.
Okay.
So did you include any of that in your guidance? There’s always based run rate of recurring gains from the investment portfolio quarter-to-quarter so yes.
Thank you.
Any large in a case like Jamie we hit some home run like we did in 2012 and we got that out it was the large.
And we had an $8 million plus gain from Boston Biomedical.
But I would say again we try to be careful and conservative on our guidance so let’s see what the rest of the year rolls out to be.
Okay and then just final question sticking with the guidance.
Dean can you talk a little bit about the sensitivity I know you’ve kept the range constant from your Investor Day what will give you some upside here or some downside? Well I’d say first off it’s only been a couple of months.
So although things have improved I would say generally speaking from the demand standpoint state that’s remained healthy.
I think it’s just too early to think about change in our outlook for the year and as we go through the year we’ll revisit.
But everything is pretty much on track with our views that we shared with you on Investor Day.
Okay thank you.
Yes thanks Jamie.
Next is Dave Rogers with Robert W.
Baird.
Maybe talking about the New York asset a little bit more I think both in the Investor Day and maybe last quarter you talked about a better run rate there but you mentioned Joel in your comments that you set that with an existing tenant looking to expand.
But let’s talk about the backlog and demand there both domestic and internationally and kind of what you are seeing from that asset? Yes it’s kind of interesting you have to remember when we delivered the West Tower Peter negotiated the lease with Eli Lilly but they were our anchor but essentially there is no market there to speak up.
We actually have had to create the market which we feel very good about.
We took a risk the Citi took a risk on us and I think it maybe big dividends for both.
So you can’t look at market dynamics because they simply don’t exists.
So every single lease and every single tenancy we actually have to force and really work on you can’t just paying out for lease time expected to show up or market demand to go there so.
It’s not easy listing and I know I remember very clearly when we delivered the East Tower and we St.
Louis there was some discontent among what the Street that said well how come you even leased it up well.
We have a three year lease-up and we did it in one so we are pretty pleased this time we’ve got a two year lease-up and hopefully we can do it a year from now we’ll be hopefully done.
But as I said we are in least negotiations with one private biotech company we expect to move there another public company that we expect to move their non-existing tenants we’ve got some internal demand from existing tenants we’ve obviously been talking to Roche and others about expansion.
We do have a backlog of a couple of companies we’ve got one big pharma that is they had a great year it is not now currently in New York as far as research.
But it’s really too really to tell.
So I’m not sure I can give you any more color.
Over to Peter.
I could just piggyback on to the pharma discussion for life science team in New York offices probably averaging a day with a pharma company almost every month and so there is a quite a few with I don’t Joel if you want to comment on that.
Yes I wouldn’t say anything more than that I actually have some meetings in Japan coming up in two weeks we have some real interest from Japanese pharma companies who haven’t done research some exists client of our same size or Cambridge asset-base and we’re talking to a couple of others about potential New York research preferences but again still too early to tell.
Okay thanks and maybe a follow up two parts to it as if I’m trying to get it.
First any major tenant rollover this year that we should be thinking about and I guess kind of second to that would be any plans to take any existing operating assets either with an expiration or without and kind of put them into redevelopment this year as the year progresses? I think on the redevelopment side I think there is someone listed.
Yes that we have it on page 17 that’s project is footnoted to on Page 17 it’s Barnes Canyon Road we acquired that in the third quarter of 2013 and 67 000 square feet it did roll in January and it will undergo convergent into hi-tech office base for redevelopment and it is a 100% pre-leased.
All the remaining space that we have expiring for 2014 aggregates about 491 000 square feet this excludes anything that’s leased there or under negotiations that’s highly anticipated to result favorably.
The remaining bucket is only I think the largest leases are somewhere in the 40 high 40 000 square foot range and they’re only a couple of two or three of them at that range.
So nothing significant rolling in 2014.
I will just add to Dean and I had touched on that during my comments on a mark-to-market basis we are looking very favorable on those roles.
It is pretty well distributed across the portfolio again with a concentration in Boston and San Francisco where we’re using healthy demand.
So nothing out of the ordinary there.
Yes I’d say one thing that was different there was a new mill I traded with one region this morning we are starting to see interestingly enough which we haven’t seen maybe a decade tenants coming to us and saying gee our lease rolls in 15% or 16% or 17% and we’d like to try to tie-down space today.
We haven’t really seen that for a long-time it’s actually been the opposite way going to various tenants whose leases are coming up not this year but over the next year or two to try to – I don't know that it's a blend and extend.
Maybe a couple of years ago it's more blend and extend.
Today it's just renewal but we’re starting to see that reverse inquiry now.
We just had one very large tenant ask us to consider renewing right away and that is kind of a nice thing to see.
So that's a good sign in the marketplace.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thanks.
And next up is Jeff Theiler with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong>  Hey good afternoon.
It sounds like your best guess right now is that ARIAD comes in and subleases a portion of that space of Binney Street.
Assuming that does happen how does that impact the timing of the remainder of those Binney Street projects? Yes I won’t speak for ARIAD.
They’re going to have make that decision but we know we’ve had face-to-face discussions and they’ve indicated that they are going forward.
I would say that when it comes to timing our timing is right now delivery in the first quarter of 2015.
So none of that’s changed.
Inc.</strong> The remaining buildings after that is that pushback? No.
Actually I think if you listen to my commentary that I just gave on 50 60 and 100 because there is such extraordinary demand in the market today our view is by bringing on a joint venture partner we can actually accelerate the construction of those projects one or more operating those projects.
So in my view those are going to be more advanced than we would otherwise.
Inc.</strong>  Great great.
And then can you talk a little bit more about the Cray Court acquisition? I guess what you saw in that and what the plan is for that building over the longer term how long The Scripps Research Institute lease is et cetera?  Sure.
Jeff this is Peter Moglia.
So The Scripps leases that building for I believe another six years and so that was one of the drivers for the acquisition but another main driver is that there is very little to that you can obtain in Torrey Pines and we’ve really done a great job creating a lot of value there with our Nautilus project and some of the other developments we’ve done and it’s – the rental rates have really grown up.
And so getting more products there was a priority for us and this is a very mission-critical facility for Scripps.
It was designed built for them and it has a very efficient design for NIH type of reimbursement.
So it's going to be very hard for them to replicate if they were to go elsewhere.
So we really think they're going to stick there for a long period time and it's also very close to their campus.
Inc.</strong>  Great.
That's helpful.
Thanks very much.
We’ll now go to Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
Yes.
Good afternoon.
Joel we’ve heard a lot about the positive rent growth in Cambridge and San Francisco.
I'm just wondering if there’s any way you can give us an estimation of how Alexandria’s portfolios in place rents in those markets compared to current market not just like what’s rolling this year.
Yes I think Sheila it’s probably consistent with what we’ve talked about with the rollovers mark-to-market.
So you’re probably in that 10% to 15% range in both of those markets on a GAAP basis.
Okay.
And then Dean or Steve on the gap increases they were so large on new leasing.
Was that the six steps in the rents were larger or were the lease terms? What’s driving that unusually large increase? Yes I’d say it was primarily – well all the leases were extending on the terms but I would say that you had a couple larger leases within the year and the 10 to 15 year lease terms that were extended that really drove GAAP rent increases in 2013.
If you back them out you’re probably still in that 13% range on growth.
So it’s still a very strong year but a little bit inflated by two large transactions.
Okay.
And then last question.
Just looking at building 2 and the remaining lease-up I think you disclosed in the supplemental through 2015.
Could you just talk about any more insight into timing on through 2014 and into 2015 when you expect that building to stabilize? Which one are we talking about? Building 2.
I think you said in the supplement yes in New York.
In the West Tower? Okay.
Exactly.
All right.
So we are currently – to give you some perspective we have about 11% that’s leased but has not been delivered yet which leases maybe 43% of the project on the second tower to resolve.
And as Joel mentioned we have some transactions that we’re working through.
So I think from a timing perspective our goal would be to resolve most of the remaining lease-up over the next call it four quarters.
We’ll have a better sense as we make our way through the year and we’re sitting here in Q1.
So I’m talking about into early 2015 we should have pretty good color on resolving the rest of the space.
Now I’m not talking about necessarily delivery but hopefully moving the remaining space through negotiation and lease over that timeframe.
But keep in mind our internal model as we said in the East Tower Sheila was a three-year lease up.
Right now we have a two year lease up and we just delivered first space at the end of December.
So we hope to beat that.
Sheila we hope that we’re conservative in our modeling as well.
So I think there’s upside from our own model to the extent we get ahead of our delivery timeframe.
And so given that the faster lease up on Tower 2 or West Tower could you give us an update on how you are thinking about the auction parcel? Wow that’s a good question.
There is a new sheriff in town I guess who likes affordable housing.
So I don’t know.
We actually approached the city pre-year-end under the Bloomberg administration thinking maybe there was something we could do to accelerate things but they didn’t really want to put anything into play.
So we’ve kind of gone back to the game book or the play book that says we got to finish the West Tower before we then approach them on the option parcel.
It’s just hard to know I mean honestly speaking if the city wanted to do something they could clearly designate that as residential if they wanted to although not sure how affordable what our views would be from that location.
But we’re hoping that the long-term interest of the city are aligned with ours that said they really want to continue to build the commercial life science sector and so we hope that will happen.
But I would expect now that – now Bloomberg is out I don’t think there will be any earlier discussions with them given where we are in the West Tower.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take the next question from Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
How should we think about your near-term development opportunities? How many projects could we expect to actually break around in 2014 and 2015? It sounds like you are seeing some good activity obviously in Cambridge and there is strong activity in Seattle.
Are there other any other markets that you can see some near-term opportunities?  Yes that’s a good question and I think Dean and his team tried to put some really color to those opportunities.
So if those of you who have got the supplement if you look at Page 30 that’s the Kendall Square Binney Street corridor assets.
We’ve talked about those.
The next page is the Spectrum project in Torrey Pines Peter referred to.
We’re working on that.
If you go by that project you’ll see still moving along.
We think there are a number of tenants both existing and non-existent tenants that would want space.
So that’s clearly is moving forward.
I think the Illumina campus we certainly have discussions going on with Illumina there continuing to grow.
So I think you’ll see progress there in the very near-term same thing on Campus Point Drive.
We have demand from one or two of our current tenants and we’re underway with expanding and confirming entitlements there.
So that would seem to be more of a near-term.
The next one is the 9950 Medical Center Drive in Rockville.
For the first time we’ve seen that market really change and we’re getting relatively full in that market.
I don’t think we would ever kick off anything without a mostly lease situation.
I can’t imagine actually having building in Maryland again but we are at a point interestingly enough where there seems to be both institutional and pharma demand.
And so we’ll see what happens not sure how near-term that may be but if we’re moving forward with our design and confirmation of settlement.
And then Seattle Page 35 I think these are probably next behind Cambridge.
There is great demand from tenants from the market including Amazon.
So we’d like to have a partner to help us finance that.
And then I guess the final one is 6 Davis Drive.
There was an announcement yesterday by the Research Triangle Foundation that basically indicated they have just bought a large parcel right across from our parcel or our sets of parcels including the Hamner headquarters campus right across the side from I-40.
That’s going to be an iconic headquarters of the Research Triangle Park and looks like they are going to pour a lot of money into that.
We’ve seen some substantial demand from existing tenants.
We’ve got two builder suits.
We’re actually looking at right now don’t know how soon they may be but they could go sooner rather than later.
So I think you’ll see a pipeline that will start over the next set of quarters or in the next year that will develop a nice pipeline of opportunities for us to harvest in the 2016-2017 timeframe.
So a lot is actually going on.
We haven’t seen this much activity across all the markets in a long long time.
Okay great.
And then I guess my last question is Joel you indicated that the ARIAD’s space or at least the old space is functionally obsolete now? Those are not my words.
I think those are ARIAD’s words.
Okay.
And can you give us color as is that obsolete to most life science tenants or is that obsolete for ARIAD and now I guess that’s not your space obviously.
So can you talk more generally about the Cambridge market of how much space in the market could be obsolete or near obsolete? Yes I’ve been into 26 Lands Down many times.
I’m not sure that I currently have the knowledge of how the systems are functioning ARIAD has been historically a pretty heavy chemistry user.
So that’s an issue.
And I think obsolete for their transition from a small company to a commercial stage company.
So it may – there could be functionality in the chemistry side and there could be functionality just for the nature of the stage of the growth of the company.
And so I am not the best one to ask about that I think if you look at overall space in the market I think you have to look at really I would say space in Cambridge is the only space you could look at that could be functionally obsolete as some of the Vertex space that we heard is going to be going to office.
But I think Tom Andrews could probably give us better details on a property-by-property.
But remember our experience up in Seattle we sold the Old Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center we bought it as a converted hospital many years ago.
Those systems actually lasted since the 1970.
So these buildings are built if they have done right they have a long-term re-leasable reusable and if they are maintained well functionality for many many decades.
Okay great thanks.
We’re now going to Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Thanks good afternoon.
Joel or for maybe Peter could you just wonder kind of circle upon kind of some of the assets sales and pricing I guess I wanted to come back to the Kendall Square deals and the other transaction that was mentioned.
And then maybe if you could touch on the Skanska deal.
But if you kind of look at kind of cap rates price per foot and you talked institutional capital partners.
What do you think the unlevered IRRs or the institutional partners want and what do you think the unlevered IRRs were for the two deals that you passed on? Good question Steve.
I have talked to a number of institutional investors and I have read a number of surveys about what people are underwriting to and I’d say generally for core people have dipped below seven probably six to seven on an unlevered basis for core products out of the 100 basis points plus for value add.
So I would guess that I know that the one Kendall Square sold for a price that was probably a good 20% higher than we had originally thought it might go for.
And I ran some numbers on that.
I would guess that that IRRs is probably vertex but I am not sure.
I mean obviously I would I might have a more conservative deal rents than the buyer so we’ll see.
But that was obviously a very healthy trade.
The 245 First Street that is a very good location as I mentioned but it’s a hybrid building it’s kind of funky if you went there you would look at it and it seems like a big brother and a little brother attached holding hands by an atrium.
It’s just kind of a weird looking building and the parking goes like nine storeys above ground and if you look at it and you go while to that location but I wouldn’t want to take an investor on a tour and show him this.
So that thing traded at sub six Cap which is a good news for the market but I do know that there was some sub few little leases in that wrap order below market.
So I’m sure that the buyer there is going to get at least their seven IRR.
Did I answer your question Steve or is there something I also need to touch on? No well you did for those two I was just curious as you guys looked at the Skanska Building that you recently purchased.
If you could just remind me kind of on the price the cap rate and maybe what you think the IRR is – IRR is on that purchase?  Right I don’t comment on IRRs that we are achieving we did give a lot of disclosure on the yield.
But I believe the purchase price was $94.5 million and then.
Yes $94.5 million it was $767 of foot.
That is fairly healthy price per pound but considering some of the New York type of trades that you see that exceed $1 000 of foot and the high rents that you see for large space in Cambridge I think it’s an appropriate price per pound.
Stabilized yield will be 7.3% and that will be achieved sometime in August of 2015 when the free ramp from the existing tenants burns off.
You may not know but foundation one of the tenants was pulled from One Kendall Square and they got a pretty big free rent package in order to come over there and so that needs to burn off.
And we also have another 18 000 square feet of leasing to do.
So we anticipate we’ll get that all resolved by August of 15 and will be cash flowing at 7.3% at that point.
Okay thanks for the clarity.
And there are no other questions.
So I’d like to turn the conference back to Joel Marcus for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you operator thank you everybody for taking time.
We did it under an hour and that’s good news.
And we look forward to talking to you on the first quarter call.
Thanks again.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We’d like to thank everyone for your participation.
Have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to the first quarter ‘14 conference call.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga Peter Moglia Steve Richardson Marc Binda Andres Gavinet and Amanda Cashin.
So my take on the first quarter really echoes our theme that was presented in Investor Day December ‘13 on our return to stable growth with increasing FFO per share growth NAV per share growth really a very clean quarter strong [core] solid operating metrics and very positive external growth.
As many of you have read Michael Porter of Harvard has spoken off I mean written off on about kind of the urban clusters.
And it’s useful to reflect that ARE has really chosen to focus the bulk of its efforts and the bulk of its precious capital in the leading urban innovation clusters with the focus on quality buildings locations and tenants in each of those submarkets ultimately reaping higher value stronger and more durable rental streams in up and down cycles deeper and more creditworthy tenant base tenant rollovers more protective again on releasing stronger rental rates more pricing power lower cap rates and lesser CapEx.
We also noted in our press release that we celebrated our 20th anniversary as a company and proud of our exceptional track record starting with the mere $19 million back in 1994 and addition them today a total market cap of $39 billion and we’re probably been able to generate a return of about 579% from IPO through the end of the first quarter.
On macro comments on the FDA they have been actually 12 FDA new drug approvals through April 24 of this year and 50% were ARE plant tenants very proud of that.
There is part of the 2012 Drug Act the new breakthrough designation court order if you will was introduced and there have been 48 breakthrough designations through May 05 ‘14 and Alexandria client tenants have 56% of those of breakthrough designations.
And as you may know those are promising drug candidates with clinical which remarkable -- in clinical development with remarkable clinical activity and this has really been unveil since the breakthrough designation was part of the prescription drug and user (inaudible) past in 2012 July which Alexandria actually helped grab the breakthrough designation provision we are very proud of that.
The Affordable Care Act which has been much in the news is forecast to have $25 million new insured lives by 2023 and we feel strong demand for innovative medical products.
Large pharma now has 56% of its Phase 3 pipeline from external sources up from 38% of decade ago.
So I think it’s fair to say the attempt of the interaction with biotech in the heart of the urban clusters really continues unabated.
And as many of you know much in the news these day pharma M&amp;A has been front and center.
I think it's fair to also say that the most successful based on past history of those who are driving biotech are acquired in the research units continue as independent competitive unit.
This was really the formula Roche used with Genentech many many years ago.
Big pharma are increasingly focused on activities which benefit from scale and subcontract out so to speak a scientific work that doesn't primarily the biotech.
If we move to operations and internal growth Greater Boston and San Francisco primarily contributed the strong cash and GAAP rental rate increases and Steve will talk more about the detail there.
First quarter leasing are 563 000 square feet Greater Boston had 42% San Francisco 19% and Maryland 14%.
And a lot of smaller spaces were involved in these leases so somewhat shorter duration lease terms could be or were evident.
We feel very confident by the increasing GAAP leasing spread on Dean’s adjusted guidance in that regard and occupancy across the regions continue to trend out best all time highs.
Moving to external growth quickly acquisition activity has been fairly substantial year-to-date approaching $150 million primarily because of the strong sector demand from our growing and expanding tenants is really driving our need to find additional facilities to retrofit for their use as their occupancy drives to all time high in existing assets.
So we're actually running at a space for some of our tenants so we've had to look at opportunities to acquire and this is good for them and certainly good for us.
And this is partly a consequence of accelerated FDA approvals and a heavily cash plus biotech sector.
Steve will also detail the very strong large tenant demand which we're seeing in both Greater Boston and San Francisco.
On the development front we’ve had good steady lease up progress ahead of our pro forma in New York City now approaching 70% on 75/125 Binney.
We're on target there we have frequent dialogues and meetings with Ariad.
We're making solid progress on the development of another Class A facility and this is science and technology close to market at 75/125.
As all of you know Ariad has a contractual lease commitment for 99% of the project with contractual rent payments.
Target rent commencement date is contractual and the [refinement] of the lease is March 22 2015.
We have some good news in Longwood we expect to have another fourth floor leased by around the end of this quarter and activity is picking up in that regard.
And on our 50/60 Binney corridor two 250 000 square foot untitled shovel ready buildings.
We will shortly commence marketing with one of the buildings of 250 000 square feet given the very large market tenant demand and we are proceeding on our joint venture as well.
In San Diego we have very strong demand there Spectrum 1 is 40% preleased and 40% in negotiation.
We are getting close singing the LOI with Alumina on their 150 000 square foot build-to-suit; same thing at campus point a 120 000 square feet build-to-suit out of the 140 we’ll build and we're also in build-to-suit negotiations with Spectrum 2 in San Diego.
Dean will talk about the balance sheet in detail but -- and confirm our land sales of about 145 to 245 we feel comfortable with that number.
Our forward active pipeline is about 35 million and right behind that is another 95 million plus maybe 50 on the horizon.
So we’ll keep you posted as our negotiations move forward.
And we feel good about kind of where we’ve guided the street.
And then finally on the dividend the company intends to continue with policy to share increasing cash flows with shareholders as we maintain a continuing low payout ratio of about 60%.
So Peter? Thanks Joel.
I'd like to run you guys through or highlight two notable life science trades that offer further proof that life science real estate in the core market is achieving cap rates at or near those of Class A office products.
And in addition I'd like to present some office trades that occurred in and around our submarket to offer additional context for your valuation of our operating portfolio.
So first I'd like to discuss the depending sale of Vertex headquarter research building in the Seaport Fan Pier submarket of Boston.
Outside of HCP’s purchase of this portfolio in 2007 this is the largest life science real estate transaction we have seen with the purchase price of $1.125 billion or a $1 022 per square foot.
Vertex occupies a 100% of the 1.08 million square feet of lab and office based.
The project also contains 50 000 square feet of retail phase and 740 parking spaces.
Based upon publicly disclosed information and our own estimates we believe the cap rate of this trade was in the low sixes likely near 6.2 upon lease up the retail space.
If the property had been located in Cambridge we believe that cap rate would have been much lower.
We know that there was at least one other bidder at that price point but senior housing properties trust was the buyer.
We had a very early look at this transaction through our relationship with the developer and the brokerage for marketing the property.
And although the real estate is Class A and Vertex is a solid tenant we are unsure if Fan Pier will be able to compete with Cambridge for life science Tennessee over the long-term as it is lacks the ecosystem Kendall Square.
That ultimately led to our exit from the bidding process of that transaction.
Outside of the cap rate compensation we believe that this trade offers further evidence that life science real estate has become acceptable to a wider range of investors.
This is [S&amp;H's] first life science real estate investment and we know that a number of other bidders included pension fund advisors and a sovereign well fund.
This trade also illustrates that lower cap rates are driving our price per square foot statistics as we also see in Kilroy’s purchase of 401 Terry in Seattle for $106.1 million or $755 per square foot.
401 Terry is a laboratory office building located in the South Lake Union sub market that garnered considerable national attention with over 30 initial bidders.
The building is relatively new and 100% leased to the institute for systems biology with moderate churn left on the lease.
The cap rate on this transaction was 6.0% in considering that the tenant is not credit and a small research non-profit we believe it could have been lower.
Like [to see in fewer] transaction this trade also offers further evidence to the widing audience for life science real estate.
So before I hand it over to Steve I wanted to briefly mention that 221 Main Street a 379 000 square foot office building located in San Francisco South Financial District just north of Mission Bay traded at a 4.0% cap rate in April with a price per square foot of $725.
Posting about the trade on the website [the registry] mentioned that many in the brokerage industry saw that cap rate is a little high for a large institutional quality building.
We believe that as Mission Bay continues to be developed into an infield location it will become more and more integrated into SoMa and the financial district.
The northern edge of Mission Bay is only mile away from 333 Brand Street where Drop Box recently signed a lease with a new high end rental rates for the area.
The recently announced Warrior event center which will be located on 12 acres of land adjacent to our 401 499 Illinois property and in close proximity to 455 Mission Bay Boulevard will accelerate this integration by further enhancing Mission Bay as a 24X7 live work play environment and an unparalleled destination to recruit the [10 top talent].
So even if you apply the discount to our Mission Bay assets that are long-term leased to credit tenants such as Baird Pfizer Celgene ECSS and The VA a cap rate in the high 4s to low 5s is justified.
Lastly I’d like to note that [SO Green] is selling 673 First Avenue in New York at a 4.7% cap rate.
This was actually passed on to us by one of our coverage analysts who thought it would be applicable to our New York City assets given its location of half mile the north of the Alexandria Center for Life Science it’s [NOIE] score and medicine tenancy and that it is a leasehold interest.
With our assets being long-term leased to credit tenants newly constructed fully amenitized and lacking in competitive product we’ve argued for a rate lower than this.
So with that I’ll pass it over to Steve.
Thank you Peter and good afternoon everyone.
I’d like to highlight two key points we may for Marc’s truly underlying the theme of stable growth that Joel referred to earlier as it’s well underway in our Gateway cities where we’ve concentrated our significant capital allocation in Class A urban science and technology campuses.
First we’ll discuss the truly stellar performance of our core doing great part to our best in the business fully integrated regional teams.
Second the ability of our teams to capture additional growth opportunities in the best locations such as the recent 500 Townsend Street acquisition in the SoMa district in San Francisco.
First the quarter is performing very well as we reported cash and GAAP increases of 10.4% and 18.2% respectively this past quarter for renewals in releasing space.
The business imperative for our investment grade tenants to commit the space is clearly evidenced by the truly stellar 96.6 occupancy rate for North American operating properties up 240 bps from Q1 2013 and just 292 000 square feet of rollovers remained to be resolved in 2014 or just 1.9% of our operating asset base.
We are seeing tenants with 2015 rollovers also pursuing early renewals to ensure they secure a high quality space in these key clusters.
Drilling down a little further in Alexandria’s key innovation clusters we can see the broad and strong business patterns outlined by Joel manifesting themselves in these healthy real estate indicators.
In Cambridge we are tracking demand of more than 2 million square feet in the market from both life science and tech users.
We expect our mark-to-market on rollovers for the balance of the year to be in the 9% range on GAAP basis as [the switch are] concentrated in Cambridge where we think continue to drive rents in the high 50s to low 60s triple net for existing product.
As we discussed earlier The Binney Street marketing and prospect discussions are continuing and we continue to see rents in the low 70s triple net for ground up project.
Direct vacancy rates remained very healthy at 10.2% contributing to the overall sense of urgency in the market.
Moving out to the West Coast The San Francisco Bay area continues to experience exceptional demand as we have hit an all time high of 99.8% occupancy in the operating and development portfolio.
We are tracking approximately 1 million square feet of life science demand and another 6.5 million square feet of tech demand and know two recent very substantial leases hind in San Francisco with salesforce taking down 700 000 square feet and linked in another 400 000 square feet driving lease rates for new products in the mid 50s triple net.
Mark-to-market for our Bay area 2014 rollovers is anticipated to be in the high teen with lease rates in the high 40s in Mission Bay to mid 30s in South San Francisco and low to mid 40s in the Stanford cluster.
And market continues to tighten as vacancy rates drop to 100 basis points in Mission Bay and SoMa to a tenth of a percent of 6.4% respectively and 40 bps to 6.4% in South San Francisco.
Moving to South San Diego is also in a strong demand cycle with 800 000 square feet of requirements in the market and rents on Torrey Pines pushing through the $40 triple net mark for high-quality product an increase of nearly 10% from last year.
UTC submarket has a direct vacancy rate of 6.4% and Torrey Pines vacancy rates of 10% will be dropping into the single-digit during the next quarter.
We expect the mark-to-market on the modest rollover remaining in 2014 to also contribute to core growth.
Seattle Maryland and RTP will also provide mark-to-market gains in the range of 5.9% to flat to 20% respectively for 2014.
Vacancy rates are tight in these markets as well with Seattle South Lake Union at 4.9% Rockville at 10% excluding the HTS big block Gaithersburg at 5.6% and RTP at 10%.
Demand is very healthy again with almost 900 000 square feet in the Seattle science and tech sector; 220 000 square feet in Maryland; and another 125 000 square feet in RTP.
Second is the 500 pounds industry parcel acquisition and strategic plan to perfect entitlement design and construct nearly 300 000 square feet of Class A science and tech space is really a testament to each of the regional team’s ability to execute on meaningful and compelling new growth opportunities.
This location at the geographic intersection of Mission Bay and SOMA mirrors the deep industry intersection and really trend of collaboration and overlap in the science and technology innovation grounds.
SoMa's extraordinarily demand cycle of 4.5 million square feet of absorption during the past three years is continuing as it added another 1.1 million square feet with the leases noted above.
500 Townsend with its best-in-class development team this is a team that has decades of experience in wide ranging expertise delivering Class A high-quality projects in the city of San Francisco including driving the occupancy rate to 99.8% for its 1 million square foot Mission Bay cluster is on track to create an iconic and state-of-the-art facility that captures the architecturally historic term that SoMa District at the absolute Gateway entry to San Francisco.
With that I'll turn it over to Dean.
Thanks Steve Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everybody.
I’ve got three important topics to cover.
First I want to provide an update on our balance sheet which has positioned us to support stable per share earnings growth.
Second I want to provide key updates on important strategic capital related events for 2014.
And lastly I'll provide a summary of key drivers of our $0.05 growth and guidance for 2014 FFO per share and continued confidence in our ability to deliver solid growth and cash flows net asset value and per share earnings in 2014 and beyond.
Starting with the balance sheet update we continue to focus on a strong and flexible balance sheet which will allow us to execute on our business strategy.
We have almost $9 billion in gross assets up 32% since we received our initial investment grade rating in 2011.
We have over $1.3 billion in liquidity.
We have only $20 million and $61 million of debt maturing in the remainder of 2014 and in 2015 respectively.
We anticipate continued improvement overtime in net debt to adjusted EBITDA on a trailing 12 month basis driven by growth in EBITDA and near-term projected land sales.
Our fixed charge coverage ratio continues to improve as our business benefits from the continued migration of high quality tenants into Class A collaborative science and technology campuses in urban innovation clusters.
Our fixed charge coverage ratio has improved significantly to 3.3 times or up about 50% since our initial credit rating assessment.
Our unhedged variable rate debt of 26% is currently at a level to support an opportunistic bond offering in 2014 without having to terminate swap contract as we use the proceeds from the offering to reduce outstanding variable rate bank debt.
We expect unhedged variable rate debt to be approximately 11% as at year-end.
Moving onto an important capital update for events for 2014; first with our bond offering we remain focused on our strategy to maintain strong a flexible balance sheet specifically our bond offering will focus on extending our maturity profile appropriately lettering maturities and refinancing outstanding bank debt.
We have increased our targeted size of our bond offering by $150 million to a midpoint of $550 million and anticipate executing this offering in the near-term.
The proceeds of this bond offering will be used to reduce $100 million our 2016 term loan with the remaining proceeds to reduce outstanding borrowings under our line of credit.
We will continue to focus on execution of our strategy including further reductions in our 2016 term loan in 2015 and ‘16 issuing long-term bonds for growth capital and driving steady growth and FFO per share quarter-to-quarter and solid growth year-over-year.
Briefly on land sales our guidance for land sales in 2014 will focus on generating important capital from non-income producing assets for investment into high value development projects.
Our land sales will also include the first part of important capital from a pragmatic JV partner with the sale of an interest in our near-term development opportunity in 50 60 and 100 Binney located in Cambridge Massachusetts.
We are comfortable with the range of guidance for land sales of $145 million to $245 million or midpoint of $195 million for 2014 and anticipate providing more details over the next quarter or so.
Lastly on guidance I want to touch on two important topics leasing activity expectations for the remainder of the year and key drivers of the solid $0.05 increase in FFO per share guidance for 2014.
We reported strong rental rate growth on lease renewals and releasing space for the first quarter of 18.2% and 10.4% on a cash basis.
These stats were solid with 53% of the renewals and releasing of space related to leasing in Cambridge Massachusetts with rental rate increases of over 18% and 12% on a cash basis.
We remain on track to achieve solid rental rate growth on leasing activity for 2014 and remain optimistic that we’ll hit the upper-end of the ranges for guidance for rental rate growth.
We are pleased to announce a solid $0.05 increase at the midpoint of our FFO per share guidance for 2014 to a range of $4.70 to $4.80 the new midpoint of our guidance of $4.75 represents solid growth of approximately 8% over 2013.
The increase in guidance reflects the continued execution of our business strategy to deliver solid and stable earnings growth and consisted of the following key drivers.
The $0.02 increase from core operations driven by solid early renewals including a 130 square foot lease in Cambridge a $0.01 increase from a value creation projects including lease up of an additional 25 000 square feet at 499 Illinois and Mission Bay now 98% leased and the renewal of the lease in the potential area of the San Francisco Bay market.
A $0.01 increase from acquisitions and a $0.01 increase from various other items including updated assumptions for our bond offering in 2014.
The delivery of certain pre-leased value creation projects in 2014 is anticipated to be primarily in mid to late 3Q.
Our expectation for FFO per share through 2014 is in line with our goal and is expected to show steady growth of a penny per share each quarter going forward.
In closing of my comments we’re pleased to be in a solid position with our balance sheet with continuing solid core operations and demand from high quality science and technology companies to drive stable growth in FFO per share and net asset value in 2014 and beyond.
With that I’ll turn it back to Joel Marcus.
So operator if we could open it up for Q&amp;A please.
Yes.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will take our first quarter today from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking questions.
Dean I will start with you looking in your sub you have a comment on the marketable securities balance underlying gains going up pretty significantly but it didn’t look like the biotech index sort of went up same amount.
Could you talk about what might be happening there is just sort of a single need and that’s really outperforming or something else? Well I think in the follow on to our comment Manny last quarter we had touch briefly on the upside and the value of our investments been easily two times cost and most of those investments are healthy cost.
So you did have couple of securities that driven primarily by one that have a significant increasing value during the quarter and that’s reflected through equity so just for everybody’s note here that is not part of our P&amp;L or income statement.
But I think they’re going to find us from time-to-time.
You will see some pretty meaningful growth in the value that will reflect in our investment holdings on the balance sheet primarily as privately held or private investments and private companies transferred into a public security and that really occurs into.
One as the company is for public or two the required by a public filtrated company and we end up with a unrealized increased in valuation and that will allow us to have liquidity events overtime as we been fit providing a little bit of weather income from time-to-time.
Thanks guys for the explanation.
Your exposure [India] went up in the quarter previously had spoken about decreasing our exposure (inaudible) sort of idea? That’s all FX.
But it looks like your number of assets went up unless I’m mistaken? We brought one asset from redevelopment into operating that was fully vacant.
Got it.
And then my final question you guys have increased your debt issuance guidance within the notes but you haven't increase any of your sort of sales guidance.
And given the environment that Peter spoke about what assets trading at pretty low cap rate.
Have you thought about selling more stabilized properties and kind of rolling those into other lands and so other sort of the nominal properties rather than selling out to the bonds markets? As you know we did that in a couple of submarket during later part of 12 and early part of 13.
And so that program is done and we're really focused more on the land sale opportunities we have to use together obviously with bonds to invest in both redevelopment and development projects.
Thanks Joel.
Yes.
Thank you.
And we'll now go to Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
I know you guys touched on in a couple of different ways on your JV prospects I think you mentioned something like contributing land.
Can you just clearly say actually how we should be thinking about the JV going forward? And when we might see some activity and how? Well I think if I said a quarter or two ago we would hope to have a JV in place where we would be a majority partner hopefully sometime late second or early third quarter and it would be focused on 50 60 Binney properties on potentially on a 100 Binney.
And because the opportunity is there on leasing or pretty sizable the dollar amount of building that project out approach $750 million so it's ideal for a JV opportunity where we can also earn fees and promote et cetera.
So that's haven't changed from the discussion we have maybe at Investor Day or thereafter.
Okay.
And then reading the press release if I read it correctly so you talked about it potentially taking about Executive Chairman role in several years can you talk more about what that means and if that means maintaining the CEO spot or not?  Well I think it’s -- probably the easiest way to think about it is that under the new contract I’ll continue to as CEO of the company through December 31 2016 beyond that the contract will be what it is or it may change I don’t know.
But I’m focused on this quarter.
Okay.
I mean I guess if you are Executive Chairman would you stay as CEO those are distinct roles you can’t keep both?  I think they’d two distinct roles.
Okay.
Yes.
And then finally when you guys were quoting rents you talked a lot about tech rents and life science rents so you -- as you think about your major markets; are you tempted to go more down the tech route at this point than life science and how are you thinking about that decision? Well I think if you focus on kind of what we’ve said and how the supplement is presented and the press release we haven’t changed our focus from these critical core urban science and technology clusters.
I mean if you walk into Mission Bay in our lobby you’ve been there many times you will see I think the moniker is Alexandria Science and Technology Mission Bay Campus.
And so we have focused primarily on the life science industry but as Steve said it’s clear that the integration of information technology engineering and other disciplines with life science continues unabated especially as we get into the digital healthcare age.
And so these markets tend to melt together.
So I think our focus won’t change we’ll continue to focus on class A buildings AAA locations urban campuses innovation clusters.
But as you think about the rent growth you're seeing in the market is it rising faster for a traditional tech space or should I say tradition for modern tech space than it is for life science space?  Yes I think the rate of increase is probably a bit higher in the technology sector than it is the life science sector.
Having said that as we've seen healthy rental rate increases in Mission Bay and Cambridge and Seattle and San Diego as well so they’re all very healthy.
Okay alright.
Thank you.
Yes thanks Jamie.
And we'll now go to Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
Yes good afternoon.
Joel I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the land acquisition in SoMa how long you think it will take to entitle the pricing? And also you mentioned in your prepared comments that your recent acquisitions were tenant driven.
I was just wondering if you're already in discussions with tenants at that site.
Yes I’ll let Steve comment on that and then I’ll come back to some other items on the acquisitions.
Yes.
Hi Sheila it's Steve.
On 500 towns and the entitlement process we’ve actually submitted to the city as of last Friday.
So the development team is very experienced team.
We were able to go ahead and execute on that quickly.
We expect that to take anywhere from 12 to 18 months.
And we are on that full time.
And as far as the pricing I think as you think about the pricing and they were two other bidders as well who were essentially at that price point.
Relative to the rental rate increases it's very consistent with the pricing that we've seen in the past for other high profile parcels like this one.
And our internal team and our external team have ongoing discussions with potential tenants.
So that actually even to some extent began in a shadow fashion before we closed on the transaction.
I think if you look at the acquisitions both in San Diego and in Greater Boston those have primarily been driven by either existing tenants or new tenants who have come to us needing real estate solutions where we couldn’t accommodate them with existing assets.
So that as I said in my prepared remarks has driven some of the acquisition activity.
And again it’s driven a lot by FDA approvals and the biotech sector being among many of the companies being pretty plush with cash and ready to do expansion undertake expansion.
Okay.
And Dean a couple of quick questions if you were in the bond market today 10 year debt where do you think you could execute roughly?  Yes.
Let me say while Dean is giving some thought to that.
If you look at our last two bond deals both were 10 year.
If entire likely we wouldn’t do a 10 year bond deal; we would look to latter maturities and we might have them maybe somewhat shorter and somewhat longer duration bonds as we are thinking about this.
Okay.
Yes I’d have to say probably somewhere depending on treasuries and treasuries have been moving around quite a bit but call it somewhere in the low 4% range on 10 year line.
Okay.
And then Dean any comments on other income? It was a little bit higher than we had forecasted in the quarter.
What was that? And if the quarter if you think you had any weather impact in the quarter? Two questions Sheila; the first one regarding other income.
I’d say nothing really unusual in other income in the first quarter.
I would say if you’re thinking about a run rate you should think about roughly $3 million a quarter or $12 million of other income for the year.
And then as far as weather because it’s been a key topic for earnings for REIT this quarter we’re no different in the sense that our portfolio was exposed to the weather conditions in the quarter across the country.
But the benefit we have is we do have a tripe-net lease portfolio so the tenants to bear across cold weather or heavy snow as well as heating and cooling costs depending on hot or cold weather.
So the true difference here is we had limited P&amp;L exposure as a result of our tripe net portfolio.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yes thanks Sheila.
Next is Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Thanks good afternoon.
I just wanted to I guess go back to the JV and just make sure Dean in the supplemental where you’ve got the guidance staged and you talked about the land and sales (inaudible) strategically venture your capital just kind of roughly 150 to 250.
Are basically all the sales actually tied up in this Binney project and if not are there other assets that you’ve got currently on the market today for sale? Yes let me say before Dean takes you through that.
No they aren’t all Binney.
We’ve got about $35 million having nothing to do with Binney that’s in the forward part of the pipeline.
And then Dean can give you some of the Binney stats.
Yes I think the way Steve to think about Binney is if you turn to the supplemental near the very back in our feature and near term projects on page 31 of the supplemental our book value on 50/60 and 100 Binney is roughly $286 million.
So our goal would be to bring in and still maintain a majority position but sell an interest in the land for development there.
And you can apply a factor if you want to assume something just sort of something in the 45% range for a partner for the sake of doing some math.
And we expect to be north of book as we sell an interest in that opportunity there.
So Binney is an important component but nowhere near.
We still have a number of transactions that Joel mentioned that are smaller that are moving through and we think we are going to close the gap here on the remaining that has not been discussed somewhere in the $60 million to $65 million range.
And we will provide more details probably over the next quarter.
Yes so that means about 35 near term you got another chunk for Binney and then a chunk that Dan just described that could in the [$50] million to $65 million range that’s kind of behind Binney.
So we hope to accomplish those during 2014.
And Joel I can appreciate you’re not giving too many details on the joint ventures negotiated but are there -- I mean do you have kind of one partner that you are kind of actively going through right now or are you still kind of reporting partners or are there kind of issues that have come up in the discussions? No we are negotiating with one partner.
Okay.
And then I guess just on the bond deals what -- I guess is there anything that kind of triggered sort of pushing this off? I know back at the Analyst Day you talked about setting conservative guidance having to deal effectively beginning of the year.
And I can appreciate this deal might happen in the second quarter but basically it got pushed off six months.
Is there anything specific that kind of pushed that back obviously with your benefit to weighted -- I'm sure you wouldn't have forecasted the [rates] going down per se.
So is there something that kind of drove that decision? Yes I noted in your note that you had indicated that we said it would be early in the year.
I don't know that we said that precisely I think what we said is we had modeled that as if it would be earlier in the year which would be the most conservative approach to it.
But we have always thought about opportunistically taking advantage of that.
We wanted to see -- we wanted to get through the tax square payoff we've looked at the secured debt market because we now have a huge amount of unencumbered NOI over 80%.
So we've been busy looking at that market as well.
And I think we still see an opportunistic chance to do what we want to do that maybe outside the 10 -- within the 10 and outside the 10.
So I think that comment was we modeled it early but we never committed to do it day 1 of 2014.
I don't think that was ever on our mind.
Okay.
And then I guess just lastly Dean in terms of land sale gains maybe I missed this in your comments.
But would the land sale gains I guess to be related to the Binney sale or would they be separate sale.
Well we haven't given guidance on gains for land sales and any gains would be excluded from our core FFO numbers.
But we do expect the assets that are currently under advanced negotiations would be sold at a modest gain or a small gain.
Okay thanks.
That's it.
Yes thanks Steve.
And we’ll now go to Jeff Theiler with Green Street Advisors  Hi it's Kevin Tyler here with Jeff.
I had a question.
There was an article about a potential Alexandria partnership with Rice University's BioScience Research Collaborative.
I know you guys have had success with deals like this and recently with the NYU deal in New York at the Alexandria Center for Life Science but do you feel it's in a bit on your current appetite for University related transactions and more broadly for a larger footprint in Houston? Yes.
I don’t want to comment on future market but I would say that our focus is not so much on University related transaction.
We don’t think that’s where we want to keep our focus I think one because the NIH budget is muted.
That our experience along clearly would indicate that those budgets are more difficult to take operating monies for rental payments and we've never historically tried to tie our business to that factor.
I think our focus has always been on the science and technology urban cluster innovation locations and we want those to be near major urban centers multiple centers with [spawn] technology which provides clinical trial opportunities etcetera.
I mean New York is the paradigm example; Longwood is another great example; obviously UCSF.
But we wouldn't just go to some random city and do a one-off deal with the University.
That's not what we do.
It would be an integrated campus made up of quite a number of participants in the ecosystem and that’s how we think about it.
So if we do something in another location it would be according to our strategic plan not like a one-off deal.
That’s helpful.
Thanks very much.
I think the rest of our questions have been answered.
Thank you.
And we'll now go to Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes thanks.
I'm not sure if you guys talked about this yet or not.
But can you give us an update on the Ariad situation? I know the tenant has had some positive announcements have there been any update about the amount of sub-lease space they want to do at 75 125 if any?  Yes.
I think I specifically indicated in my comments Mike that we have frequent dialogues and meetings with Ariad obviously because they are the tenant in our development project at 75 125.
I don't have any news or update on their sub-leasing activities as they say it’s the last [offer] they were interested in sub-leasing all over a portion of the smaller building and that’s as far as we know that they have had discussions with a number of parties on that.
But there is no update that I have specifically.
Okay.
And then the increase at the bottom end of your guidance was that largely due to the I guess pushing back the bond offering in your model or pushing back in the year?  No I think Dean went through the couple of items.
He will just recap it for you quickly.
Yes Mike not at all.
The $0.05 growth as I stated earlier I will rattle through quickly or $0.02 of that came from core related to early renewals.
Primarily a large lease in Cambridge for 130 000 square feet $0.01 from value creation projects from lease up of additional space but we plan to deliver this year at 499 Illinois $0.01 from acquisitions.
And then $0.01 from various items included in that were updated assumptions for bond offering in 2014.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Yes.
Thank you.
And next is Tom Catherwood with Cowen and Company.
Yes thank you.
Dean we look at this quarter pretty strong internal growth obviously from a GAAP standpoint you are up 3.8% and your leasing spreads were strong as well.
As we think about it though given the guidance raise and the strong performance we were somewhat surprised that you didn’t raised the same store guidance for the full year.
And we are wondering as we think through the rest of the year is growth going to moderate somewhat internally or is there something else kind of driving leaving the guide where it is?  No I think we are doing very well relative to our guidance on same store both the traditional GAAP view as well as the cash view.
I think our cash tax as an example of 43 for the quarter if you just compare it the midpoint the midpoint of 46 for cash basis NOI growth still puts us tracking for a 5%.
So I think that you are going to see collectively as we proceed through the year same store performance move closer to the midpoint and I think there is room to be on the upper end relative to those midpoints both on GAAP and cash.
Got you.
And then Peter appreciate the outlook on some other recent sales.
It looks like cap rates are coming down on some transactions but when I look at you guys I mean you are trading at roughly at 6.4% implied cap rate and there seems to be some sort of a split between how public markets are viewing these and what they are going for in private transactions.
I want to know your sense of kind of what’s driving that split and if you still see cap rates compression to the rest of this year.
Well I guess Tom what I could tell you is that any time that we enter into a transaction the core markets we’re just seeing more and more people involved and that’s just driving the pricing further and further.
And then after something trades I get an email or a call from somebody looking to find out why did it trade so well and we talk it through and then it turns out to be a good on transaction and a good comp and we talked about here on the earnings call.
I think this is the third quarter in a row I’ve gone through some pretty good comps that would give people an idea of what makes you trade for it doesn’t seem to translate when we look at our implied cap rate.
So I can’t be answer why there is a gap I don’t quite understand it.
But I will I certainly think that we’re going to continue to see more and more investment in this sector and pricing will continue to be strong.
Got you.
And then kind of building off of that obviously a lot of interests in the sector not only assets but in the kind of business itself; we’ve seen the entrance of senior housing obviously with the Vertex deal into the now life science real-estate sector which Kilroy has purchased in Seattle as they’re entering the sector as well.
And obviously given the growth that you guys are seeing the value creation potential you’re seeing it’s kind of obvious that you would see more competition.
But do you see some potential for that competition to even to some of your main areas or no someway affects your business strategy? Well I think it’s -- you have to distinguish between somebody owning a building or two or three or whatever even a big building like the Vertex building at Seaport Center versus somebody who has fully integrated teams in the ground who’ve operated for 15 to 20 years and who have a kind of base second to none.
So I don’t think we get much worried about the competition.
As Peter said we think it is absolutely fine the cap rates are being driven lower because that gives us a chance to create value whether I think say Peter likes to say rather than buying somebody else’s value and that just happened impacted us.
We have great opportunities for growth I mean we can literally double the size of the company on a square footage basis on the land we own we hope to monetize a lot of that in the near-term has been said and on board EBITDA but it haven’t stopped our growth in the core urban innovation centers.
So I think just a acquisition or purchase doesn’t make a life science real estate company that really can expand multiple markets.
Got you.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
Yes my pleasure.
Thank you.
And we will go to Gabe Hilmoe with UBS.
Thanks.
Joel just on the redevelopment property as 225 second I am just trying to get a sense of what the opportunity is there is that a version play from office (inaudible) and I guess what type of use it can be? Yes it’s an existing tenant that house outgrown their space and asked us to find a specific solution for them.
And so yes it’s a retrofit.
Okay.
And then I guess on the move out I mean I guess for you I think (inaudible) to support is that a asset that something we can get put into I guess for sell bucket or is that plan to redevelop that as well? Yes.
We’re actually already are in discussions with potential tenant to take that building so we are advancing that more than likely going to be a retrofit into a lot building from currently a specialized use.
Okay.
And then I guess last from me just going back to 500 pounds any interest there or opportunity you bring in a capital partner or will that be all Alexandria 100%? Yes it would be Alexandria 100%.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yes thank you.
And at this time there is one name remaining on the roster.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll now take a follow-up question from Emmanuel Korchman from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Yes it's Michael Bilerman with Manny.
Good afternoon.
Hi there.
Dean this 130 000 square foot large renewal when did that become effective? All right effective in the first week.
Right… Right.
It was an original lease; there was a lease with an original lease end day in 2016.
So we have an opportunity to do an early renewal that started in the first quarter.
And just doing the math $0.02 is a $1.4 million.
So that's $11 a foot greater than what you would have expected or what that's currently paying today In terms of a mark-up? There was a very healthy mark-up on this space on a cash basis.
And because it's it's got a good term on it as we get a GAAP benefit increases well with the annual steps.
So yes Michael very solid step on rents.
Yes it's a big building and it's a triple A location in the heart of Cambridge.
Hopefully it doesn't surprise you because BHP had massive steps in their Bakken holdings as well this quarter.
So  No I just I thought it was relative to renewal that was schedule to expire not forgetting that was 16 that you brought forward because I was just thinking about the delta from what was already in guidance but this is effectively a new lease that you have brought forward or renewal that you brought forward we are able capture a significant amount of markup but I was just trying to make sure that I understood the dynamics of what was in guidance versus now.
Now I understood it.
Yes.
And the reason that happened actually is this was a tenant that’s had some pretty great success recently.
And they are nervous about the opportunities to expand in Cambridge or even maintain themselves and so they emerged and came to us to try to put this field together.
So that’s the market dynamic there Michael but as you know from the tour you guys took in January.
Yes is there other opportunities like that where you can bring and I know you are always aggressively leasing space but is there other role that you can pull forward from future years that can help growth in the near term?  The answer is yes.
And do you a number I mean is there a certain size that you are working with right now in terms of transactions and leasing? I know the leasing volume at least in the quarter was lighter than what the history has been.
Yes Jeff because we have so this is one of the smallest yearly rollovers I think in the history of company.
The answer is yes but I don’t think we want to re-revise guidance here on this call so we just stay tuned.
And then just last question just as you think about sources and uses this year you’ve made the decision to fund the extra $100 million of your effective -- use of capital through acquisitions and development spend all with debt.
And so I’m just curious in your mind you worked so hard to get the balance sheet in the position at what point do we start thinking leverage neutral? Because as it stands right now and you think about sources and uses in the guidance the extra 100 million completely get funded.
So what point did you trigger?  Yes I think that's not an accurate for trail.
So maybe Dean you want to comment on that.
Michael it’s Dean here.
I would say in my comments what I would like everybody to remember is that we have tremendous EBITDA growth occurring in ‘14 and continuing into '15.
And if you recall my prepared comments touching on the fact that trailing 12 net debt to adjusted EBITDA will continue over time to migrate lower at a lower leverage point over time.
And this is going to be driven primarily by EBITDA growth.
But in this year we do have some projected land sales which we feel very comfortable with and that will help as well.
But the EBITDA growth continues beyond ‘14 and that's your primary driver of balance in it.
And on a trailing 12 basis you're going to see continued improvement in debt-to-EBITDA.
So we did have a spike on a current quarter annualize but that has more to do with funding and relative timing.
Right.
No I -- and I understand that.
But all that is to create EBITDA growth that you're pushing in selling the land and not [introducing] assets all of that was known right? What I'm just trying to think about is this quarter you've added a $100 million to your uses of capital.
You're finding that 100 million irrespective of the EBITDA growth irrespective of the land sales all of which was fully discussed at the Investor Day.
Your funding the extra $100 million of capital spend with debt and all I was trying to think about is knowing the future uses of capital that will be on the [common] think about the San Francisco land use just bought you’ll have a development.
At what point in your mind has it triggered the need for either to sell more assets given how robust the market is; Peter has talked a lot about that on the call or the need to raise common equity which I know you have talked about not wanting to do? And so that’s and I am just trying to balance out a little bit.
Yes I think you will see Michael and it’s a really good question and we have to think about this everyday obviously because our target debt to EBITDA as we said we want to migrate not only from broadly the [6.5] but hopefully over coming years lower.
We clearly we will see we hope a larger amount of land sales this year than even the guidance has provided and we clearly would look at low yielding assets as a possibility for asset sales.
And so we have said we aren’t going to raise common equity this year.
So I think that we expect the land sales to make up the majority of what we need to make sure we are in the target debt to EBITDA ranges.
Okay.
So I guess any incremental potential new use you would have need to actually raise the asset sale guidance if next quarter we come around and you have another $15 million of opportunity at that point we would actually see an increase?  Yes.
And I don’t want to -- I want to be really careful because this is a public call but I think you will see over the coming quarter the $15 million that we spent on the tons of acquisitions will be fully covered as an example by a sale of an asset that we haven’t commented about we are still negotiating but we believe we’ve got a good probability of success.
So I think in a sense it’s a little bit of match funding.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
Thank you for the great question.
And there are no other questions.
At this time I’d like to turn the call back to Joel Marcus for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We managed to keep it within the hour.
And I appreciate and look forward to talking to you on the second quarter call.
Thanks everybody.
And thank you very much.
That does conclude our conference for today.
I’d like to thank everyone for your participation.
And have a great day.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jessica and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note today's conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the conference over to Rhonda Chiger.
Ms.
Chiger you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody this second quarter call.
With me today are Peter Moglia Steve Richardson and Dean Shigenaga.
As all of you have seen from the press release we are pleased to have reported our second quarter FFO at 1.19 a share an increased in the mid point of our narrow 2014 guidance range $4.74 to $4.80.
In the second quarter we have witnessed the very positive conversions of really more a key cyclical as well as structural factors which have resulted in exceptionally strong environment for our unique collaborative science and technology campuses in our great urban innovation clusters.
And point we actually see exceptional opportunities very strong tenant demand increasing rents and occupancy and Alexandria is able to drive earnings and NAV growth therefore.
We will at Investor Day in December set expectations for growth and 2015 as well as how our value added growth pipeline should evolve over the next two to three years.
We will also detail our funding approach to our capital allocation in 2015 as the company continues to have the full range of capital sources available to it and if you look at -- take a glimpse of 2015 can be seen on page 50 of the supplement.
Other macro comments let me share with you.
We see continuing strong improvement in the life science industry’s ecosystem participants to be urban core clusters Peter will talk about this in a minute presences really tertiary cluster locations outside of the key core urban clusters are really declining even if you have got a second tier academic or university nearby and Pfizer sale of three facilities and they are moved to the heart of Cambridge which again Peter will comment on in detail in a moment really are the prime example we have witnessed the strong biotech and pharma capital markets performance over the last many months and solid profitability and lots of cash.
As you know record high FDA approvals of new drugs are with us plus the FDA review time is down from about 23.8 months as the high and 20.08 to right now about 9.4 months in 2013.
When combined with the new breakthrough therapies designation and the new way of precision targeted medicines to treat serious life threatening illnesses and diseases it's pretty clear that we’ve got substantial improvement over existing therapies and better targeting of medicines with fewer side effects.
And of the six breakthrough therapies approved by the FDA four Alexandria tenants Roche Gilead Novartis and GlaxoSmithKline.
In the first half of 2014 in fact 143 digital health companies raised $2.3 billion or 168% growth over 2013 so another good factor.
If you look at July 25 Wall Street Journal they did a feature article on Google Acts an important tenant of ours in the San Francisco Bay region and Google's so called New Moonshot project to human body was kind of elucidated in that article and simply stated it’s focused on not being restricted to specific diseases using new diagnostic tools to collect a broad range of samples using Google's massive computing power defined biomarkers and patterns and then using these biomarkers to detect diseases much earlier than we ever have.
So we’re on the new frontier of some pretty dramatic breakthroughs.
We moved operations and internal growth and both Steve and Dean will talk about this.
We’re certainly beating our occupancy and rental rate increase estimates and we’re in a strong environment given our urban locations.
Leasing by region has been driving internal growth with 752 000 square feet lease this quarter Greater Boston contributed 58% San Francisco 13% and San Diego 12%.
On external growth you’ve seen the disclosure on the acquisition of 500 Townsend Street in the SoMa district of San Francisco in April adjacent to our Mission Bay cluster and really over time we think integrated well will help driver our continued growth in the city of San Francisco where we’ve successfully developed over 1 million square feet.
I also direct your attention to page 27 of the supplement our near term value add pipeline.
It is the strongest it’s ever been in key multiple and innovation clusters and we’re very pleased about that.
I'll leave the balance sheet comments this quarter to Dean and may be finish up on the dividend.
The company will continue its policy to share increasingly strong cash flows with shareholders as we continue to maintain a low payout ratio 61% this quarter.
So I’m going to turn it over to Peter for some comments.
Thanks Joel.
Good afternoon.
This quarter I would like to highlight one notable life science trade that provides some clarity on cap rates in Torrey Pines San Diego one of Alexandria's largest sub markets.
Trades of office property in San Francisco and Manhattan that illustrate continuing cap rate compression in the core urban markets that Alexandria invests and operates in and then highlight the sale of life science portfolio by Pfizer in West Cambridge not so much for its financial metrics but because it offers further support that the transition of large pharma and biotech companies from siloed research campuses to centers of innovation anchored by academic institutions is continuing.
First I would like to discuss the sale of 11099 North Torrey Pines Road by Angelo Gordon to HCP.
The asset is 93% occupied 92 479 square foot multi tenant laboratory office building on the northern age of the Torrey Pines sub market.
There are about a dozen tenants in the facility that are mix of large company or institutional credit with some early stage private biotech.
The sale price was $43 750 000 which would indicate a low 5% cap rate on in place income.
But after allocating value to excess land it was reported to be at 5.67%.
So this is a solid building but we believe our portfolio in the submarket is of higher quality and therefore this comparable should support low 5% cap rates for our higher-end Torrey Pines properties such as our Nautilus and Spectrum projects.
There were no other life science trades to report this quarter but we would like to note that last week an article in the registry noted that 405 Howard Street in San Francisco is being acquired by Norges Bank Investment Management and TIAA-CREF for $350 million which is estimated to be $750 per square foot at a cap rate of between 3% to 4%.
This asset is located within 1.5 miles of our 500 towns in project in the Northern edge of our Mission Bay Holdings.
We believe the Mission Bay is on course to be every bidders of a desirable location at SoMa and Financial District as it moves towards full build-out aided most recently by the announcement of the development of the new Golden State Warrior Stadium and supporting on the east (inaudible).
Because of this we believe that cap rates for our Mission Bay assets closely resemble those of assets trading in SoMa in the Financial District.
Adding the Mission Bay’s terrific location and close SoMa and the Financial District is that our Mission Bay assets are relatively new within average age of 5.8 years and are leased to high quality tenants such as Pfizer Celgene UCSF the VA and Baird under long-term leases.
We’d also like to note that both 5 Times Square and 920 Broadway traded in Manhattan at $1 361 and $1 091 per square foot respectively showing that investor appetite for New York City asset is not necessarily being governed by price per pound limitations.
No cap rate was reported for 920 Broadway but the 5 Times Square cap rate was reported at 4.35% and we’d like to note that it was a lease hold transfer.
Lastly Pfizer the recently sold vacants asset 87 and 200 Cambridge Park Drive in West Cambridge total in 280 000 feet to King properties for a $192 per square foot.
But what is really interesting about is that the sign a lease with MIT at 610 Main Street South in Kendall Square for 287 square feet and are rumored to be looking at taking another 140 000 square feet at MIT 610 Main Street North project.
A June 15th article on Boston Globe references that Pfizer will consolidate employees from West Cambridge 620 Memorial Drive and some employees relocated from Groton Connecticut to 610 Main.
Although only 4.5 miles away from their new location Pfizer decided to sell fully improved owned research assets in West Cambridge and materially increase their occupancy costs by leasing space in the heart of Kendall Square because to close the article.
“While the company has historically deployed the standard pharmaceutical industry model of in-house siloed drug discovery the new research center here has stolen a page from the collaborative culture and open architecture of the entrepreneurial startups that dot Kendall Square.” They obviously see that the value of the location will vastly out way the increase in operational costs.
Mikael Dolsten Pfizer’s President at Worldwide Research and Development was quoted saying that Pfizer’s decision in consolidate in the Kendall Square location “is a real recognition of our confidence in Cambridge Mass.
to become one of the leading hubs of biomedical research for us in the future”.
Examples like this continue to validate our cluster model and we expect more in the future as a result new product pipelines and lower overall cost of drug development.
So with that I'll pass it over to Steve.
Good afternoon everyone.
At the outside I'd like to first commend our best in class regional teams for truly exceptional operational performance year-to-date as we are hitting on all cylinders.
The level of expertise and commitments excellence in all facet of the business is truly unique and unparalleled in the industry.
Today I will touch on two key aspects of our operations in my remarks.
One the ongoing and sustainable solid performance of our core.
And two as we forecasted earlier this year the increasing actual and immanent deliveries from our significant $1.1 billion current value creation development pipeline.
First the core is performing very well as we reported cash and GAAP increases of 6.3% and 13.6% year-to-date and 3% and 9.9% respectively this past quarter for renewals and re-leasing of space.
We were seeing now more broadly as a trend the clear and compelling sense of urgency towards Alexandria’s Class A facilities and operational teams and its irreplaceable cluster locations as tenants with 2015 and even in some cases with 2016 rollovers engaging our regional leadership teams to renew leases and lock down space.
This is a very noteworthy and powerful market dynamic that we really haven’t seen in decade or more.
The stability provided by our Class A facilities and AAA urban science and tech campuses populated by investment grade tenants with a high bar 96.9% occupancy rate for North American properties is also impressive as this is the second consecutive quarter we have been greater than 96.5% occupied.
Probably no better metric for the return to stability seeing we outlined at our December 2013 investor meeting.
The rollovers remaining to resolve in ‘14 are very manageable 150 958 square feet or just 1% of our operating base.
We'll take a closer look at each of Alexandria's urban science and technology innovation clusters and a very positive fundamentals for each.
In Cambridge we are seeing demand remaining very robust and increasing with more than 4.3 million square feet of demand from both life science and tech users.
Our mark to market and rollovers for the balance of the year is targeted at 14% on a GAAP basis and the region has hit a high order mark of 98.5% occupancy.
The clear scarcity of both large blocks and smaller blocks of space is maintaining rents at the new level of high 50s low 60s triple net for existing product and Binney Street build-to-suit prospects are anticipating rents in the low 70s triple net.
Direct office vacancy rates in East Cambridge remain very healthy at a low of 6.8% and lab vacancy rates remain unchanged at 10.7%.
Although it's important to note that the bulk of this lab availability is really B quality leave behind space from Vertex and Pfizer and as such the desirable direct spaces are experiencing competition for multiple users creating a clear landlords market.
Moving over The San Francisco Bay it's also continuing its strong demand cycle as we're maintaining our strong occupancy level at 98.4% in the operating and development asset base.
We're tracking 750 000 square feet of life science demand and a pretty amazing 7.9 million square feet of tech office demand.
We recently note Google's leased out approximately 250 000 square feet and purchased of an adjacent 90 000 square foot building in the Selmont further contributing to lease rates for new product now in the mid 50s tripe net.
The mark to market for 14 rollovers is anticipated to be nearly 14% with lease rates increasing again to the low 50s triple net Emission Bay mid 30s in South San Francisco which could pop if the Amgen's rumored plans to reoccupy space that they've had on the market for sub lease transpires and mid to upper 40s in the Stanford Cluster.
The market overall continues to tighten and vacancy rates dropped 50 basis points in the lab market from Emission Data Palo Alto to 6.3%.
Its sense of urgency is clearly evident with a December 2015 and December 2016 tenant completing the early renewals.
Moving down to San Diego the core is performing very well with 97.2% occupancy up 300 basis points from Q2 '13 and the market overall is similarly enjoying continued strong demand with 1.3 million square feet of life science requirement up significantly from the 800 000 square feet earlier this year.
A number of transactions along with Torrey Pines [Villas] had been recently completed in the range of $40 triple net for high quality product which is now becoming even more scarce as of the direct vacancies just 10% and our current negotiations are now reaching into the mid to upper 40s triple net.
ETC's direct vacancy rate has dropped 30 bps to 6.1% and although the remaining roll over is small it's important to note that mark-to-market will be significant as legacy lease expires.
Finally Seattle will provide mark-to-market gains in the mid-teen range for the balance of 2014.
Vacancy rates are also tight in the South Lake Union district to 4.9% and demand continues in Seattle with fresh requirements for nearly 500 000 square feet in the science and tech sector.
Finally our current value creation development pipeline remains on track with an additional 110 000 square feet delivered in place into service during this past quarter.
We're on track to deliver and place in service significant fully leased facilities during the second half of 2014 and Q1 ‘15.
These projects represent the highest quality Class A assets in core urban science and technology innovation clusters Cambridge Manhattan San Diego and San Francisco and are another testament to the acumen of our fully integrated regional teams.
With that I’ll hand it off to Dean.
Thanks Steve Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everyone.
I have four important topics to cover.
First I want to provide an update on our balance sheet including our recently highly successful issuance of unsecured notes; second I’ll provide a key update on land sales for the second half of this year; third briefly touch on interest expense for the second quarter; and fourth provide a summary of key drivers of growth and our guidance for 2014 FFO per share and confidence in our ability to deliver solid growth and cash flows net asset value and FFO per share in 2014 and beyond from our Class A buildings and land parcels in AAA locations in urban innovation clusters.
Starting with our bond offering mid-July we completed our third highly successful unsecured bond offering and increased the strength and flexibility of our balance sheet and capital structure.
Our $700 million dual tranche offering focused on three primary goals first transitioning variable rate bank debt to longer-term fixed rate unsecured bonds; second prudent laddering of debt maturities; considering our outstanding bonds with maturity dates in 2022 and 2023; and greatly increasing flexibility as we focus on several high value build-to-suite development projects.
Our bond offering consisted of $400 million of 2.75% 5.5 year unsecured notes due in 2020; $300 million of 4.5% 15 year unsecured notes due in 2029; blending to a weighted average rate of 3.5% and a maturity of 9.6 years; and to put this pricing into context a 10 year deal would probably have priced within interest rate around 4%.
This highly successful transaction also extended our average maturity of outstanding debt to 6.3 years up from 5.1 years; increased our liquidity to 1.8 billion; and reduced our unhedged variable rate debt to 7% of total debt.
Briefly on a few other balance sheet matters.
The high value projects that we have leased completed and delivered over the past several years along with delivery scheduled over the next few quarters really highlights the solid demand for our Class A assets urban innovation clusters.
Our target net debt-to-EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 14 annualized is on track with our plan at 6.8 times and is relatively consistent with leverage at the beginning of the year of 6.6 times.
Additionally our target net debt-to-EBITDA of 6.5 times is expected to occur by the fourth quarter of ‘15.
Non-income producing assets will decline to 15% by year-end and to 12% by March 31 2015 primarily through the completion and delivery of pre-leased Class A development and redevelopment projects.
These forecasts include a very conservative assumption for construction spend related to new projects and includes the land sales targeted for 2014.
We also anticipate significant EBITDA growth for 2015 when compared to 2014 plus solid cash flows from operating activities after dividends which in aggregate will provide funding for growth of approximately $500 million to $600 million in 2015.
Briefly on our second topic on land sales for the second half of the year we remain comfortable with our range of guidance for land sales of $145 million to $245 million for the full year ‘14 and approximately $115 million to $215 million to complete for the remainder of the year.
Moving on to our third topic I briefly want to touch on interest expense for the second quarter.
Interest expense declined approximately $1.7 million driven by a $2.4 million reduction in gross interest expense offset by an approximate $700 000 reduction in capitalization of interest.
Gross interest expense declined primarily due to the repayment in January of ‘14 of a $209 million secured loan with an interest rate of 5.6%.
Additionally we had $200 million of notional and swap contracts that ended on March 31 2014 which fixed LIBOR under the contracts at about 5%.
Capitalization of interest was lower this quarter primarily as a result of the weighted average interest rate required for capitalization at 3.41% down from 3.88% as of the first quarter.
This temporary dip in the interest rate was caused by the higher proportion of variable rate debt outstanding under our line of credit which obviously has a lower interest rate.
This temporary decline in the rate was reversed in July upon completion of our bond offering when we repaid almost all of our outstanding borrowings under the line of credit.
We expect the weighted average interest rate for capitalization of interest to return to its prior run rate in the range from 3.8% to 4% for the second half of ‘14.
Lastly on guidance our core operations continue to benefit from one of the REIT industry’s highest quality tenant basis with about 52% of our total ABR from investment grade rated tenants.
Additionally high quality science and technology entities continue to drive strong demand for our Class A assets in urban innovation clusters including build-to-suit opportunities on our land parcels.
This high quality demand drove continued improvement in our outlook for ‘14.
Our guidance for FFO per share this year was increased $0.02 at the midpoint to a range from $4.74 to $4.80.
We increased the range of our occupancy for year-end up to 97.2% after hitting the upper end of prior occupancy guidance well ahead of schedule.
We also increased the range of guidance for same property NOI growth to a range from 3% to 5% up 1% on both ends of the range.
Additionally we increased the ranges in rental rate increases on renewal and releasing a space to a range from 11% to 14% and a range for 4% to 6% on a cash basis again both up 1% each on each end of the range.
Most importantly there is strong demand for our high quality buildings and urban innovation clusters will allow us to monetize several land parcels through development in the near term.
As we look back to the Investor Day in December of ‘13 our outlook at that point for 2014 was very solid.
Now that we're seven months through the year it's very clear that demand for space in our buildings has meaningfully improved.
Again this demand and the strength in the performance of our core operations drove the aggregate $0.07 today in our mid-point guidance for 2014 FFO per share.
The key drivers of this $0.07 growth and $0.04 from core operations $0.01 from value creation deliveries earlier than anticipated $0.01 from acquisitions and $0.01 from other items including our recent bond offering.
In closing we're very pleased to be in a solid position with our balance sheet with continuing solid core operations and demand from high quality science and technology entities to drive stable growth in FFO per share and net asset value in 2014 and beyond.
With that I will turn it back to Joel.
Operator we are open for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll go first to Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Hey thanks guys.
Dean if we just look at your income statement there was no other income in the quarter typically you’ve had some amount in there attributable at least to marketable security sales could you just tell us what's going on there?  Yes I’d say we had a onetime decline in other income typically you see other income in the $3 million to $4 million range and that's our outlook for the remainder of the year.
In the quarter we did have a lower amount of investment income.
In fact there was a small loss in aggregate during the quarter.
So that was the driver there.
And then given the strength you spoke about in terms of assets sort of next you're already selling it good cap rates have you thought about selling more core assets into that type of market rather than just the non-income producing ones?  We did go through recycling of assets that we wanted to lighten up the uncertain sub market in latter '12 and part of '13 and I think that was completed at the moment.
We're reviewing things constantly and you may see us do some of that but at the moment we don’t have anything particularly to target.
And then in terms of the non-core sales the 50 60 100 JV do you still plan to have them this year?  We’re certainly on target to do that yes.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you and good afternoon.
So I guess sticking with the acquisition or the disposition market can you talk a little bit more about the types of buyers you guys are seeing for your asset class? Hey Jamie it’s Peter Moglia.
We’ve seen a lot of domestic and foreign capital private equity we’ve had a lot of pension funds interested in both buying our product and in joint venturing with us.
So I would say that pretty much every class of investor has looked or purchased life science product now maybe that wasn’t the case seven years ago but it is now.
Yes and I think that’s a good thing because it’s become more mainstream and certainly cap rates have reflected that.
And then in terms of operating I mean a little bit of a differentiated asset class today operated in-house or there is just specialized third-parties or do you guys maybe more retain more today? I think most of the things that that have traded to those types of buyers have been long-term leases that they’ll likely probably be distil maybe within 3 years or 4 years of those leases bring up.
We haven’t got to that point where someone needed to operate something yet.
Okay all right.
And then shifting to the development pipeline.
Can you talk a little bit more about your leasing prospects at 3013 Science Park Road and then New York? Yes I’ll speak to New York you want to talk about 3013.
3013 we’ve got the existing building that we’re saving the steel frame where we’ve got that 25% lease to a top tier life science company in that market and then for the other project we actually have a letter of intent for the entire 65 000 or so square feet for a long-term lease there.
So all we have left would be about three floors on building that development.
And then in New York we have four floors left and we have some reasonable activity on some of those floors we don't have anything that’s moved to the stage or LOI but we're very active and we think that over the coming couple of months we'll have some news ahead of our internal projection.
So I'd say stay tuned for that.
Yes and Jamie let me just add from a modeling perspective or guidance only assumes we deliver about 60% of the project by the end of this year for the West Tower.
Okay.
So I guess just thinking about leasing and just kind of interest in New York.
I mean is there anything that’s changed or is it just a bit is just lower than expected.
I guess that’s an expected could you stay your environmental guidance but just how tenants are reacting to the market into those assets? Yes.
I think we're ahead of our own internal expectations so I think that's reflected I the model that Dean just referred to.
But I think you have to look at New York again always in New York we are building a cluster there and so there is not if not like Cambridge or San Francisco.
But I'm very comfortable we've got a number of tenants book big pharma and one very interesting entity that a non-profit that are looking that good blocks of space and we'll see.
But a great market and I say rental rates are exceeding what we hope to get.
So we are I think feeling pretty good about that.
Okay.
And then finally can you talk about your largest expirations in the bank half of the year and then in 2015?  Jamie its Steve.
The expirations in ‘14 are really marginal as I was saying it’s a 150 000 feet total just 1% of the asset base.
I think the largest block is potentially in Maryland and it’s probably about a third of that otherwise it’s pretty well distributed in either Cambridge San Francisco really.
And then for 2015 it’s really split among quite a number of regions it’s about 1.1 million square feet which generally takes us about two quarters lease or sometimes in even one quarter the largest is a suburban property in out in Route 128 and we are well on our way to working on a retenanting plan we have got one or two tenants already until.
So we feel pretty good about that there is a some phase that could be significantly up in tech square and kind of varied by region.
I don’t know Steve any other color.
Yes no.
I think that’s right I mean as you look at these rolls that were in the core markets tech square San Francisco piece and UTC in town center so the larger blocks in ‘15 are all in good core locations.
Okay.
And do have a sense to the mark to market on your expirations?  Yes certainly in ‘14 as we touched on as we closed the year out those are all on a GAAP basis in the mid-teens so I think that will continue to support the guidance we had at the beginning of the year.
Yes.
And I would expect directionally on the rental rate steps on our leasing activity for ‘15.
I think generally speaking we're going to be in the general ranges of both GAAP and cash steps.
So I think the performance we have this year or at least our expectation for 14 should continue in the ‘15.
You are saying the leasing spread should be about the same [you read box]? Yes.
Yes the leasing spreads.
Leasing spread.
Okay.
So the rental rate increases.
Alright great.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Gabriel Hilmoe with ISI Group.
Thanks.
Just maybe following up on the last question little bit but just on the expansion on the leasing spread guidance.
Steve you talked a little bit about the current mark to market in a portfolio.
But can you talk a little bit about where things are may tracking ahead of where you thought they would be maybe three or six months ago by market I guess? Yes Gabe it's probably certainly Cambridge San Francisco and San Diego.
I think overall we just see demand has not only continued but it's strengthened in those areas.
People are locking down space so that's enabling us to drive rents in those kind of key core market more so.
So it's probably those three markets that are driving it primarily.
Okay.
And then I realize this is still strong number but it looks like the occupancy dipped a little bit in San Fran anything in terms of the progress and back selling some of those smaller move ups in the quarter? Yes we did have one legacy tenant at one of our mid Peninsula properties that ultimately rolled out we're actually working with the Group right now.
So temporary dip from 99.9% occupancy there.
Okay.
And then maybe lastly for Joel I may have missed this but any update on the plans or progress for the North parcel in New York or is the West Tower still kind of the priority for the time being?  Well both the West Tower is still the priority with four floors left and some under active discussions but no paper trading yet and then we are in discussions with the city on North parcel also.
Any idea of any type of timing around that North parcel?  Too early to say at the moment.
Okay thank you.
Yes thank you.
We’ll go next to Dave Rodgers with Robert W.
Baird.
Yes hey Joel.
You’re 97% leased I think in the operating portfolio 77% leased or negotiated in the development portfolio.
What should we expect to see coming out of the ground in terms of new development? I mean obviously you want to get more product out there.
So may be give us a sense on starts may be over the next 6 months to 12 months and then also where those starts might be located where do you feel the best about kind of getting new projects coming out of the ground?  Yes.
I think in my prepared remarks I mentioned if you go to page 27 of the supplement this is kind of the best way to visualize it.
And if you go to the second half the bottom half of that spread sheet if you will we find a LOI with alumina working on finalizing the lease that will kick off here pretty quickly and that will be delivered next year.
We're in active discussions with two significant tenants in 6 Davis Drive.
And my guess is that will probably kick off here in the second half of the year.
Townsend Steve can give you a quick update on that.
Yes we’re making a real good progress.
The team on the ground with advancing the entitlements there and perfecting the entitlements we’re engaging tenants in the market in a series of serious conversation so we’re encouraged there as well.
On Campus Point we have a letter of intent with an existing tenant to take most of the new buildings and we expect that will move forward here over the next few months.
Lake Union we’ve got two parcels in play with multiple users don’t know how that’s going to go but we think we have a shot so I’ll reserve judgment on kind of the starts there.
And then on 50 60 and 100 Binney we’ve got a lot of activity on those parcels.
Would you feel comfortable going just back on any of those or pre-leasing continues to be the focus? When you say any of those meaning any of these on the whole list or any… Yes the bottom assets that don’t have that pre-leasing component or the negotiating component already underway.
It’s possible.
I think the strength of the Cambridge market might move us to go forward we’re already -- we're doing site work right now.
So I’d say stay tuned there.
Okay.
And I guess with 50 60 and 100 Binney maybe -- I don’t know how much you can talk about this under your negotiations but talk about maybe the cost and return terms to you as you think about maybe what you might be giving up.
And I guess the only reason I ask that is your cost of capital has come way down with the both of bond offering and where the stock is.
And I think that returns continue to improve given where rents are going in those markets.
So you said you’re still on track with that and certainly understand the capital component of it but maybe can you talk about the cost and return terms to ARE? Yes I don’t think we’re ready to talk about anything.
But I would say in general that we feel that we’ve got as I used the term exceptional prospects.
I don’t know that I’ve ever used that before in all the conference calls I’ve done.
So I think that with that clearly we want to keep our balance sheet in great shape.
I think Dean’s report on the balance sheet is very comforting.
So for us to be able to look at exceptional prospects and have another major source of capital to do things that we want to do and are greater than clusters gives us I think a big advantage.
And so I think that just stay tuned.
But we don't we're -- I wouldn't characterize that as giving up anything I think we're gaining something very valuable.
And we can move a number of projects ahead much more quickly than maybe we could on our own.
And we are focused on again keeping both the NAV growth moving and very importantly our earnings growth moving not only this year but well into next year in ‘16.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
We'll go next to Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Hi guys good afternoon.
Question for you and this has been asked a little bit but I just want to take a slightly different tack.
Your ‘15 releasing spread sounds like will be similar to ‘14 but just curious given the strength of the tenant demand you're seeing if you think that you might see at some point the cycle re-leasing spreads exceed what look to be the peak from last cycle about 8% on a cash basis on an annual basis just curious.
Yes sorry go ahead.
Michael Dean Shigenaga here.
Yes I gave you some baseline assumptions to think about for ‘15 but no doubt the strength of our core markets and demand in the marketplace for quality space that exist in our asset base or space like the quality of our asset base I think is going to provide opportunities both in capturing new requirements but also as we work through early renewals I think we have an opportunity on both sides.
But I guess I want to give you some baseline assumptions as we think well ahead of Investor Day six months from now or five months from now.
Okay that’s helpful.
And do you guys think about where your overall portfolio is on a mark to market basis today sounded like the ‘15 expiries are in pretty good markets and is sort of inline with spreads you are seeing this year but just curious if the overall portfolio is maybe a little better than that or sort of similar to that sort of up 5% on a cash basis.
Yes I think on a cash basis we are probably in that 2% to 3% and an 8% on a GAAP basis on a mark to market overall operating portfolio.
Keep in mind you have got long-term leases you have annual cumulatively compounding increases with some pretty great tenants.
So I think it’s important to really look at the GAAP metric as well.
And we are trying to be conservative so that it makes sense.
Got you.
And then Joel or Dean just curious how much development you are comfortable at carrying at any one time as a percent of total assets just curious how you think about that? And obviously the list of projects you have going is pretty appealing at this but just curious how you think about it from an aggregate standpoint?  Yes I can ask Dean to comment from an aggregate.
I think though the most important thing is that we try to cover the vast majority of our capital spend with both free cash flow and the generation of EBITDA from projects.
And so to the extent that we can do that Dean laid out I think a pretty nice slide on that.
Page 44 has a really nice depiction of…  So I think that’s how we think about that.
At the same time we are bringing down non-income producing assets as a percentage of total gross assets funding our construction spend really our spend on growth is really and this is just our own credit capital plan nothing is definitive yet till we give for sure guidance in December but this is I think a handy way to think about it.
Okay.
Thanks for pointing that out.
And last one from me on that debt to EBITDA target of 6.5 times.
First thanks for providing that none other companies are thoughtful enough to do that so thanks for that.
But my question is just curious is that your long-term target or is that more or just sort of where are you going to end up in the near term? And then also just curious how you arrived at that target as opposed to something else? Well I think 6.5 times has been a bogie for ours for some time.
So it is near term by the end of ‘15.
And I think we'll always look for opportunities as we grow our EBITDA to possibly improve that.
But for now that's our bogie.
And really most of our EBITDA growth is providing the opportunity to manage the growth of our business without moving leverage in the wrong direction.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Sheila McGrath with Evercore Yes good afternoon.
Joel I noticed that Longwood had a little bit of pickup in leasing in the quarter.
I just wondered if the level of tenant interest is continuing there? And how the velocity of leasing you expect? Yes as I said.
Thanks Sheila for the question.
As I said last time and we've made comments on and maybe other places of all the markets and the all the segments this is the one that I think is most disappointing in a sense when we – they had the current vacancy rate in Longwood it's about 1%.
But I think there has been this weird overhang of NIH not increasing the budget it was kind of little bit under the Budget Act from congress and then it got restore and it's kind of current run rate is about 30 plus billion dollars although I note that I think Tom Parkins I think Iowa just introduced the bill in Congress to raise it over I think a five year period to 46 billion I don't know where that's going to go but that would be good.
But I think the institution has got a little bit frightened they're also a little bit nervous about where Obama Care is headed because nobody really has been through that process.
So I think their operating spend has been more conservatively managed while their capital spend certainly is going forward.
So we've had a lot of interest in buying floors for condominiums.
We've kind of put that off for the moment.
We may return to that at some point if we decide to.
But we do have some -- we do have current demand for two floors which we hope to resolve over the coming may be quarter or so.
And then beyond that we got active discussions with the bunch of people but nothing to show up on the scoreboard yet.
There is some pharma interest in Longwood although -- although the main pharma interest does tend to be as Peter pointed out Kendall Square.
So we'll see what happens.
But as they say that's the one area with such a low vacancy rate our view back a couple of years ago when we proceeded on this process.
We thought this would be much more efficiently leased than it is but we're still comfortable.
We don't deliver till the end of the year.
And I think we'll be well over 50% at that point which will meet our internal projections.
And we hope our rates stay at what they are pro forma wise which today have been the case.
So we'll see where that goes keep in mind remind we have a 27.5% interest in that joint venture.
Then just on 50 60 and 100 Binney it sounds like you’re seeing a lot of interest and given where you have the NOI coming online in 2016.
Is the interest that you’re seeing more life science or is a mix of tax as well? It tends to be very heavy life science at the moment.
Okay.
And then last question Steve you mentioned in your remarks that the Amgen submarkets base might come off the market.
Could you just give a little more detail and how much space there is and maybe the impact on vacancy potentially? Sure Sheila.
The vacancy overall is probably right around 10% in the market although if you segment that and take smaller blocks of space you’re probably at just 3% to 4% so that’s why we’ve been able to be very successful with our projects there.
In the smaller blocks over the past several quarters these couple of blocks you’ve got probably roughly 0.25 million square feet and it looks like they may take back one if not both of those blocks of space there.
So that’s been something they’ve talked about much more intently.
I think as they look at 1000 Oaks recruiting versus South San Francisco.
So we’re hopeful that conversation is becoming more serious than we occupying that space.
That would drop the overall vacancy rate you probably down total that would cut it in half really be at 3% 4% 5%.
Yes I’d make one footnote comment to that Amgen who I used to deal with pretty regularly and we have pretty close relationships with approached us recently and we did a bit of a strategic planning session with them on innovation and it was pretty interesting because I think Amgen similar one or two of the big pharma is probably hasn't been historically as innovative as Genentech was.
Genentech ended up spending out 75 to 100 companies over its lifespan before it finally got acquire by Roche Amgen is just starting to do that but historically hasn't.
So I think what Steve says make on the provision they really thinking about becoming a much more innovative company they've been highly highly successful.
But it hasn't generate a lot of spin-off companies and out licensing of technology which I think they are now under new leadership really beginning to examine pretty carefully.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
If you guys give us some color on monthly for 124 Terry Avenue and 9950 Medical Center Drive.
It looks like you moved those two projects out of the near-term by accretion pipeline and moved them into the future one.
Can you kind of explain what changed there? Sure.
Maryland I think the simple fact is we don't see the demand that would really push us to do development there.
We think there is adequate available space there through we have some space obviously and others have a bunch space both local and national folks.
So I think that was put down and then although we have been approached a number of times by the NIH but we'll see where that goes up for some new space.
And then 124 Terry we think that's probably likely to go resi and so that's probably something we wouldn't do ourselves.
So stay tuned we might years sell the parcel or joint venture the parcel something like that.
Okay.
How is I guess how long does it take for 50 and 60 100 Binney Street to do development how improved are those land sites and if you start the construction let’s say beginning of ‘15 were to get done by ‘16?  Yes there is several ready and there is something in the range of about…  30 months construction timeframes.
Yes.
Alright and then do you expect to start 50 and 60 before 100 or 100 just takes longer because it’s a bigger project?  At the moment although we have it in the disclosure but it looks like 100 would be started later it really depends on the demand the demand in Cambridge is as I said is pretty large and so it’s hard to say at the moment.
Okay great thanks.
Yes.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will go back to Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Hey it’s Michael Bilerman.
Good afternoon.
I echo Michael (inaudible) thank you for the target debt disclosure as well as level of the commentary that you had in the release.
And if I may I just had just a question sort of surrounding it.
When you think about getting to 6.5 by the end of ‘15 from 7.2 today what else is sort of in that forecast in terms of capital spend and any asset sale.
So we know what’s sort of happening in the back half of the year which I think you have about $380 million left to spend you have about $16 million of free cash flow that’s coming in and then you have the asset sales you have targeted but I am curious I didn’t know what was factored in to 2015 in order to get to that target?  Michael it’s Dean here.
I think the best way to think about 2015 is that we have a number of items that bring clarity to what can unfold i.e.
the retained cash flows after dividends and EBITDA growth.
So we have tremendous capacity to fund growth for ‘15.
Hopefully everybody can appreciate it it's a little difficult to predict the exact dollar amount of construction spending related to a number of projects that we've identified.
And this goes back to page 27 on the pipeline of opportunities in the near term.
We have a number of negotiations ongoing the exact starts will likely depend on the pace of those negotiations and leased executions on many of them.
So I would say give us some time to come back to you probably closer to Investor Day to give you better clarity on the exact mix of what will unfold for ‘15 because there is a lot of moving pieces at the moment.
Maybe we talk it from a different level there are some known factors that actually more embedded.
One is you talked about that other income being very low this quarter and you had a lot sales investment sales you had a loss.
Just moving that back towards the average is about 0.2 times on debt to EBITDA.
So 7.2 goes to 7.
You have same store EBITDA growth.
I assume next year.
And so that's going to add some level I don't know what are you going to forecast for next year whether it'd be 3% or 4% but probably somewhere within that range.
That's going to add to it.
And then you have this large redevelopment development platform that has delivered some assets that are not yet stabilized and that are going to be delivering over the course of the back half of this year and next year.
Do you sort of have the buckets of that EBITDA from those activities.
So at least we can get the EBITDA numbers that underly the forecast and then we can figure out what spend will be? We'll provide that clarity in December Michael at our Investor Day.
How much of development re-development pipeline is -- where is that number for what you want to be delivered in 4Q of next year how of much that's been leased.
So you do very highly leased development platform what is that number in terms of the projects that will be earning income 4Q ‘15?  Yes I think if you look at page 28 of our supplemental which highlights the current development pipeline it’s probably as simple as just to go top down on page 75/125 Binney Street which is 99% released to ARIAD will be delivered contractually here in late March and rent will commence in late March.
499 Illinois will be delivered over multiple quarters but I think we get to stabilization close to year-end probably in 90% range with a little bit being delivered in the first quarter.
And again that’s 100% leased.
269 East Grand will be probably in October 1 delivery 100 leased.
Science Park Peter ran through 60% leased negotiating today; pretty good shape there.
We talked about New York being about 60% delivered by the end of this year with upside on delivery through ‘15.
On the redevelopment front on page 30 225 Second Avenue looks like 100% leased with an occupancy in the second quarter of ’15; Barnes Canyon 100% leased delivery later this year in the third quarter.
And then Rozelle it's mix 75% leased 24 000 square feet has been delivered; we have another 17 000 to be delivered probably in second quarter of ‘15 with a little bit to resolve.
So big picture of your answer of your question Michael the pipeline of active projects that will be delivered substantially through the first quarter is driving the tremendous amount of the EBITDA growth that’s been forecasted.
And big picture I think same property performance on the cash side I think will be solid given the occupancy growth in the portfolio over ‘14 which will contribute to ‘15 as well as nice steps on leasing activity and contractual rent steps embedded in the leases.
So core should deliver strength into ‘15 and you’ve got tremendous value-add that’s highly pre-leased but driving a significant EBITDA growth.
So we’ve got a pretty good ability for internal funding which is what we’ve been trying to highlight and again I think we’ll provide more clarity to some of your questions on Investor Day Michael.
And then just going back to Binney 50 60 and 100 so you have about $300 million in the effective land today on your schedule pace 32 my understanding is that’s going to be where you’re going to raise some capital as part of this joint venture capital forecast you have of $110 million to $210 million part of that’s going to be putting some of this land into a joint venture.
How much of the project are you going to be putting into joint venture? It will be a minority interest.
So 25% to 30%? Yes.
I am not sure I am ready to announce any percentage but it will be a minority percent; it will be less than 50%.
And as you think Joel as you think about putting in land and obviously getting some mark-to-market on that piece of the value that’s been created in the value in Cambridge how do you sort of evaluate that versus settling in 25% or 30% interest in a core stabilized asset versus putting a lot of money into Cambridge at arguably a very attractive yield relative to your plan basis.
How have you sort of wrestled with being of current cash flow at attractive valuation given how where cap rates are versus developing to a higher yield and earning the NAV spreads on that? Yes I mean that's always the historical challenge but I think that because Cambridge is so large and may move all together that having a capital makes a lot of sense and we look forward to having a more programmatic sense of other things that we have in more the medium term pipeline that aren’t necessarily reflected here as far as our thoughts and things that we're going to do we'd like to have that source of capital available to us to do things that we might otherwise can’t do.
I think if we go down the road of we are looking hard at a variety of assets that we haven't made any decision about we have recycled assets as you know.
But I think in recycling assets we've got strong cash flows we've got long-term tenants we probably would not want to give up what we would consider to be really irreplaceable locations that are already cash flowing at very strong yields out there.
But there are a host of assets that we might consider so I think stay tuned on that score.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Look forward to Investor Day.
Yes.
Great questions as usual.
And we'll go to Jim Sullivan with Cowen and Company.
Thank you.
I just have one quick question.
Digital houses a category has been attracting a lot of start-up funding as you were (inaudible) recent report from mid-year indicator a very very significant uptick year-over-year in that category and I know that you've mentioned once or twice in connection with some of the land acquisitions and I wonder if you could talk to us a little bit about how you assess the potential for growth in digital health demand number one number two whether or not there is any regional concentration in demand so far or anticipated? And I guess number three whether there is any specific physical demands in terms of space let’s say need i.e.
can they take conventional office space or not and I guess finally is there any need for them to be and what you would think about is innovative cluster markets or approximate or adjacent to the innovative cluster markets?  Yes all good questions I think it’s really an emerging sector broadly under the IT sector and under the life science sector my sense is over the next five to ten years it will be a very big sector and it will come into maybe some prominence that would be identified as a some category under/either both of those the growth is really pretty staggering the opportunity is huge.
But I think it’s too early to tell I think the main cluster where we are seeing activity is San Francisco at the moment there is some in New York and in the Boston Cambridge area but I would say primarily in San Francisco and that’s due to the extremely heavy concentration of tech-oriented venture capital on San Hill Road et cetera.
Most of those requirements can be accomplished with office kind of a creative tech office some might require some enhanced features but we view that those people generally will want to be at least the ones that we identify now will want to be in kind of the urban innovation cluster markets primarily for recruitment and retention.
So we're tracking that sector emerging sector very closely.
And I'd say we hope to see it growing in pretty substantial fashion over the coming years.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
And this does conclude our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Marcus I will turn the conference back to you for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well everybody thank you very much for busy time on one of the earnings day.
Thank you for questions and attention and we look forward to talking to you on the third quarter call.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Matt and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Ms.
Chiger you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projections in forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as contained in the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to the third quarter call.
With me today are Dean Steve Peter Tom and Dan.
So we've got a full house here.
We are pleased to report the third quarter FFO of $1.21 a share and an increase in our narrowed guidance of $4.79 to $4.81 FFO up over 14% from third quarter of '13 I think characterized by strong demand as well as strength in our core operations.
And I think the key to the success this year has clearly been our platform which is our Class A facilities located in our collaborative science and technology campuses and the best urban innovation clusters we've certainly benefited significantly from that.
I think if you think about Alexandria at this point in time maybe 10 kind of key strengths come to mind.
First of all very strong core operations across all key metrics as set forth on Page 1 of the press release and accelerating FFO growth into 2015.
Two we've got 2.3 million square feet in current value creation development or redevelopment projects 85% leased or in negotiations Page 29 of the sup I think this is a great testament to the teams in each of our markets plus an additional approximately 1.8 million square feet in near term value creation development projects virtually all of which are under active negotiations again Page 29 of the sup.
I think what's also important to note is the average initial cash stabilized yield generated from about 6.4 to 8.3 in value creation substantially exceed our implied cap rate base cost to capital resulting in strong profit margins over the coming several years.
You can take a look at Pages 30 and 34 for those updates.
ARE clearly owns the best science and tech campuses in our urban innovation clusters of any REIT or private investor today.
A very well run asset base at the asset management level.
Five very few challenged assets.
Six I think a deep long tenured and highly talented team which are fully integrated -- members of fully integrated teams in all of the key innovation clusters.
As Dean has pointed out the [indiscernible] a high level of liquidity almost 2 billion it is a strong balance sheet able to support strong value creation pipeline for the future.
Nine a low dividend payout ratio and increasing dividend sharing growth in cash flows with our shareholders.
And I think 10 continued sales of non-income producing assets as well as non-core assets while maintain accelerating growth into 2015.
Just a few macro comments.
There certainly is a strong trend toward the urbanization of the innovation economy and workforce and again we have been fortunate to take a significant advantage of that.
I think also on our tenant base we see the strong confluence of structural factors with also positive cyclical factors which don't necessarily line up in time but we are seeing that now really in the best of times for our tenant base.
On the operations and internal growth side of things we continue to beat our occupancy and rental rate increased estimates.
And leasing in the key regions helped drive internal growth this quarter at about $871 000 square feet Greater Boston contributed 35% and San Francisco 32%.
On external growth Steve will comment on the acquisition.
The Mission Bay parcels in connection with the Uber joint venture development of 422 000 square feet in the heart of Mission Bay.
It's a superbly executed transaction to continue to drive our growth in San Francisco.
ARE's goal is to maintain strategic optionality regarding its growth strategy.
This is really kind of our mantra.
And as such due to the extraordinarily strong build-to-suite leasing demand for Binney Street development parcels and a corresponding reduction in the lease-up risk we’ve updated our strategy which we announced in the fourth quarter of '13 which was to sell a minority JV interest in the Binney land parcels and we will now seek to keep on balance sheet assuming their term leasing and all.
So again that’s just an update on the strategic optionality approach.
If we aren’t successful in leasing we wouldn't move forward with the joint venture.
Clearly a key to this move on the assumption side of things is our desire to capture the extraordinary economics and the extraordinary demand for these three buildings versus an ability to move out our leveraged target somewhat.
But Dean will deal with how we plan to address that through free cash flow the growth in EBITDA land sales some asset recycling et cetera.
And we’re very comfortable I think with our current plan regarding our overall leverage.
Dean will talk about the balance sheet and I would conclude by saying on December 3rd at Investor Day we’ll lay out the 2015 business plan which will confirm accelerating FFO growth into 2015 as well as what we expect to be a strong increase in our NAV into 2015.
So let me turn it over to Peter Moglia for some comments.
Sure.
Thanks Joel.
So we had one notable Life Science trade to report in the third quarter which occurred in the Route 128 quarter at the Greater Boston region where GI Partners a private equity investor based in San Francisco purchased 850 Winter Street from Marcus Partners for a 6.3% cap rate.
The price per square foot for this suburban asset was $404.
The other notable trade involving Boston was BXP's sale of a 45% interest in two Boston and one New York City office buildings to Norges for what ISI calculated to be a 3.8% cap rate.
This rate was noted by Green Street when they increase their NAV to $91.75 per share on October 1st.
The Bay area continued to be extremely hot in the third quarter with 989 Market 650 California 50 BL and 60 Spear Street trading separately at a weighted average cap rate of 4.08% and a healthy $621 per square foot.
In Seattle 500 BL Avenue in South Lake Union traded at a 5.71% cap rate.
The property is anchored by tech startups space provider WeWork.
The buyer was Trinity Capital led by former speaker executive Richard Leider.
A number of Seattle Office assets have hit the market this quarter and pricing guidance has been in the low to mid 5s as owners like Wolk Insurance Brookfield look to capitalize on a diverse pool of buyers in the market including foreign funds German and Hong Kong based.
Domestic funds such as Invesco private equity investor GI Partners and a number of other public and private REITs.
A number of these investors were bidders in life science asset 401 Terry purchased by Kilroy in March which had a weak tenant credit anchor.
The trend of cap rate compression is continued through the third quarter due in part of low interest rates a lack of alternative investments and a deep pool of investors including foreign funds.
It appears that the inventor market is only getting tighter as an analysis of comps that my core market shows the weighted average cap rate drop from 5.58% in 2013 to 4.8% through the third quarter of 2014 driven largely by a 100 basis point plus tightening in the San Francisco Bay area.
As a follow up to questions we’ve received about who is bidding on life science real-estate assets we can give you some names of those who have been actively bidding on them in the greater Boston market.
They include the related companies Deutsche Bank Asset &amp; Wealth Management which is formerly RREEF; Korean fund Mirae Asset Management JP organ private investor the Rockefeller Group; Swiss fund AFIAA; Clarion Partners; private REIT KBS prudential and principal.
To wrap up my comments I want to acknowledge that with the end of [indiscernible] there’s a lot of conversation about if when and by how much interest rates will rise and the effects they will have on cap rates.
Analysis of data from the first quarter of 1989 to the first quarter of '13 by Robert Charles Lesser &amp; Company determined that the average spread between cap rates and the 10-year treasury yield is between 250 and 300 basis points.
According to real capital analytics the current spread for office product is between 400 and 450 basis points.
So we believe there is room for cap rates to absorb increases in interest rates and remain at current levels.
In addition rising interest rates should reflect improving economy and real estate fundamentals which should dampen a rise in cap rates driven by a rise in interest rates.
With that I’ll pass it over to Steve.
Good afternoon everyone.
I’d like to take a step back today as we head into the final months of the year and frame the drivers for what has been an exceptional year for ARE's performance and the unique urban and science and technology clusters in which we operate.
One the deep and broad based demand in the critical science and technology sectors; two the significant supply constraints in ARE’s highly desirable urban innovation clusters; and three the rental rate strength and pricing power in those sub-markets.
These drivers have contributed to strong core performance again this quarter and year-to-date as we reported cash and GAAP increases of 6.2% and 14.1% year-to-date and 5.6% and 18.6% respectively this past quarter for renewals and releasing of space as well as historically high occupancy levels of 97.3% for North American operating properties.
Very powerful global economic forces are intensifying demand for ARE's Class A product in its urban innovation clusters as they possess unique and mission critical attributes that simply cannot be replicated in other locations.
Against the significant wave of demand is a set of political and geographic factors that are constraining supply.
The ability to aggregate and deliver new product in urban settings is a very complicated and politically charged endeavor as well as the imperative for high quality design technically capable and creative collaborative work environments.
These two powerful forces significant demand and constrained supply have created pricing power in the market.
Alexandria's client tenants have therefore been keen to renew early to ensure stability of operations and more importantly to seek trusted and long-term partnerships as they seek to establish unique and high quality urban campuses.
A long term lease and joint venture between ARE and Uber has created a new paradigm and clearly illustrates the desirability of the ARE collaborative urban campus platform for its science and technology partners.
Broadly we've essentially resolved the rollovers for 2014 less than 0.5% outstanding and just 794 150 square feet remaining to resolve or just 4.29% of our operating asset base for 2015.
Drilling down on ARE's core urban markets the statistics reveal a very robust set of activity.
In Cambridge Boston we've seen demand intensify during the past quarter in the Life Science market with 2.5 million square feet of demand and another 2 million square feet of tech demand.
Most notable is the high quality demand from seven different potential client tenants seeking large blocks greater than 100 000 square feet.
We've refreshed our mark-to-market analysis and across the entire operating ARE asset base we see solid cash increases at 9% and 13.2% on a GAAP basis and pretty amazing metrics for Cambridge Boston.
Growth of 18.2% on a cash basis and 22.4% on a GAAP basis.
Occupancy is up by 230 bps to 98.6% compared to the same timeframe last year and lease rates are again being pushed to the high 50s to near $60 triple-net for existing product.
And prospects seeking new large blocks of space at ACKS are anticipating rents in the low 70s triple-net.
Vacancy rates overall continue to tighten and on a regional basis are just 5.7% on direct basis with 7.8% of total availability.
Moving west the San Francisco to Stanford clusters are also experiencing an intensified demand cycle from science and technology companies.
Occupancy is up by 290 bps from the same period a year ago to 99% in the operating asset base.
We're tracking nearly 900 000 square feet of Life Science demand and 9.3 million square feet of tech office demand with market highlights of several pre-leased large projects with tenants such as Google EMC Machine Zone and again most notably ARE's groundbreaking long term lease and joint venture for 422 000 square feet with Uber in the heart of Alexandria's center for science and technology at Mission Bay.
Lease rates for new product are now in the mid to high 50s triple-net as the Prop M office allocation continues to constraint supply of new products in San Francisco.
The mark-to-market refresh indicates impressive 8.6% cash and 14.4% GAAP growth trajectory and the market continues to tighten as vacancy rates drop to 100 basis points in the lab sector to 6.2% and a steep drop of 430 basis points to 4.1% in the SoMa tech district.
Moving to south we see that San Diego's market is again a similarly positive story.
Demand in the market is up 300% to 2.4 million square feet compared with last year.
Core performance is very solid with an occupancy increase of 340 bps to 96.1% and the operating and redevelopment asset base and market vacancy has dropped 140 bps to 9.6%.
The existing tenant base growth trajectory is very strong and our key large campuses Campus Pointe and Illumina's headquarters have more than 600 000 square feet under negotiation a clear testament to ARE's underwriting team's unique capabilities and expertise and I'll pass along to shout out for their standout contribution.
Finally the long entitlement and approval process in San Diego continues to constrain supply in Alexandria's core clusters which in turn will continue to support rental growth which is reaching all-time highs in the mid to upper 40s triple-net.
Finally moving north Seattle has seen explosive growth in the tech sector during the past quarter with leasing in excess of 1 million square feet.
Vacancy rates remain below 5% for lab and tech space with upward pressure on rental rates for new ground-up lab product in the high 40s to low 50s triple net.
With that I will hand it off to Dean.
Thanks Steve.
Dean Shigenaga here guys.
Good afternoon.
I have got three important topics I want to cover.
First I will provide an update on our capital strategy and our ability to continue with the delivery of strong growth and FFO per share and then asset value.
Second I will provide an update on the positive impact of accelerating demand.
And third I will provide a summary of key guidance items for 2014 a few important thoughts for 2015 and our confidence in our ability to deliver solid growth in cash flows net asset value and FFO per share from our Class A buildings and land parcels located in urban innovation clusters.
First on our capital strategy.
Our key capital matters for 2014 are substantially complete.
In July we completed our $700 million unsecured bond offering with weighted average interest rate of 3.5% and a term of 9.6 years.
We updated our targeted sales for 2014 to a midpoint of 120 million down 75 million from our prior guidance.
And we have about 83 million of dispositions under contract and expect to identify additional sales in 2015.
I will come back to this topic in a minute.
Moving to leverage.
Debt to adjusted EBITDA was 7.2 times as of the third quarter and forecasted to be 7.1 times by the end of the year based on significant growth in EBITDA and targeted dispositions of 83 million both of which offset our estimated construction spend for the fourth quarter.
Also significant growth in EBITDA continues into 2015 and we will keep leverage within a reasonable range as we deliver highly leased projects and commence new development projects.
Lastly we expect leverage to improve towards the target range of approximately 6.5 times as pre-lease developments deliver significant growth in revenue NOI and EBITDA.
Briefly and importantly on our capital strategy our capital plan focuses on funding all or almost all of our growth in 2015 and is aligned with our strategy to grow FFO per share and net asset value.
Additionally we are very comfortable with our capital plan and credit metrics going forward and we will provide an update in detail on our Investor Day on December 3rd.
First we'll plan to invest cash flow from operating activities after dividends currently greater than 110 million per year into high value development projects.
Second we expect to issue long-term debt to fund Class A highly pre-leased development projects on a leverage neutral basis through significant growth in EBITDA.
Combined with operating cash flows after dividends these two items in 2015 should allow us to allocate 500 million to 600 million of capital to high value development projects.
Third we expect to supplement our sources of capital by identifying real estate to dispose off over the next one to five quarters including operating properties both non-core and core like in addition to land parcels.
We are in a great position to continue to deliver solid growth and FFO per share and net asset value from 2014 to 2015 including the impact of dispositions and the related reinvestment of proceeds.
Moving next to the positive impact of accelerating demand on our asset base.
As Steve pointed out tenants clearly looking to tie down early renewals in anticipation of increasing rental rates in a very supply constrained environment.
Occupancy reached 97.3% as of 930 and now exceeds our upper end of our guidance.
We expect to end the year with very strong occupancy at the top end of our range of guidance of 96.9% to 97.3%.
Same property NOI growth has strengthened throughout the year.
Year-to-date same property NOI growth was solid at 4.5% and 5.2% on a cash basis.
Our guidance for same property NOI growth for the full year ’14 remains strong at a range from 3.5% to 5% and from 4% to 6% on a cash basis.
Rental rate growth on lease renewals and releasing the space has also been very strong year-to-date up 14.1% and 6.2% on a cash basis.
Our guidance for rental rate growth for 2014 remains very solid at a range from 11% to 14% and from 4% to 6% on a cash basis.
While we're on core performance let me briefly comment on operating expenses.
Operating expenses for the third quarter increased approximately 9.7 million or up 20% compared to the third quarter of '13.
One half of the increase was driven by increases in variable expenses due to the increase in occupancy in our same properties.
Occupancy was 96.9% and 93.6% as of September 30 ’14 and 2013 respectively within the same property pool.
The reminder of the increase was driven by the completion in delivery of highly pre-leased development and redevelopment projects.
Operating margins remain very solid at 69% for the third quarter due to our triple net lease structure with 95% of our leases providing further recovery of operating expenses.
Lastly on guidance.
The completion of highly pre-leased development projects will drive a reduction in non-income producing assets to 13% of gross real estate by the end of the first quarter.
There are no significant changes in prior ranges of guidance for straight-line rent G&amp;A expenses capitalization of interest and interest expense net.
Now that we only have one quarter remaining for 2014 we've provided guidance for these items specifically for the fourth quarter.
Capitalization of interest for 2014 is targeted at 46.7 million for the year based upon a midpoint of our guidance.
This represents a significant reduction of about one-third from our capitalization of interest for the year of 2014 driven primarily from the completion of high pre-leased development and redevelopment project over the last couple of years.
The decline in capitalization of interest is expected to continue into 2015 again due to the completion of additional highly pre-leased development projects.
Really from September 30 through March 31 of 2015.
High quality science and technology entities continue to drive strong demand for our Class A assets and AAA urban innovation clusters and drove improvement in our outlook for 2014.
We updated our guidance FFO per share diluted to range of $4.79 to $4.81 or a midpoint of $4.80.
This represents a solid increase over 2013 of 9.1%.
Our guidance earnings per share diluted is a range from $1.65 to $1.67.
Briefly let me provide a few key thoughts for 2015.
We will not comment further on 2015 beyond these brief comments since we plan to cover 2015 in detail during our Investor day on December 3 in New York City.
We expect to continue to execute on our strategy to deliver solid growth in FFO per share and net asset value including the impact of reinvesting capital from the sale of operating assets both non-core and core like and also certain land parcels.
Core performance is accelerating and we expect cash run regroup on renewal and re-leasing the space to be significantly stronger than 2014 and cash same property NOI growth should be very solid and in the general range of growth as 2014.
We are occasionally asked about the mark-to-market for rental rates on current in-place leases.
We believe the mark to market for cash rental rates for in place leases are on average north of 10%.
More importantly we are expecting growth in cash rental rates to be very solid in 2015 for lease renewals and releasing a space.
Construction spending for 2015 is fairly fluid at the moment with various build-to-suit negotiations in process and we expect to finalize our construction budget for 2015 over the next few weeks.
As you know 2014 is turning out to be a very strong year with FFO per share forecasted to be up 9.1% over 2013 and we anticipate 2015 FFO per share growth over 2014 to be very solid as well.
We look forward to providing our detailed outlook for 2015 at our Investor Day on December 3rd in New York City.
With that I will turn it back to Joel.
If we could go to Q&amp;A operator? Certainly.
(Operator Instructions) At this time we will take a question from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Dean or Joe does common equity play a part in your capital strategy at all? Well as we've said earlier it certainly doesn't for this year.
And based on I think our comments to date and we will certainly give you a full detailed business plan update on December 3rd.
Our goal would be to try to eliminate or minimize any common equity for next year based on the factors we talk about.
Land sales and recycling of assets together with clearly cash flow and growth in EBITDA.
So that we hope to kind of do what we did this year if possible.
You spoke earlier about strategic optionality.
You had 50 60 100 planned to be in a JV.
Now it's wholly owned unless it gets unless leasing is already expected to be and then it will be back into the JV.
How do sort of a -- how does a partner think about that given sort of the unsurety of leasing and what they will be coming into and also if you do it at 100% now is there a potential for that to become a JV in the future? When we announced the intent to go down the JV path last year fourth quarter we had no tenants in hand for 50 60 or 100.
We thought it would be prudent to make a sale of less than a half interest in that set of parcels.
It certainly would help us in a variety of ways and we didn't know how long the leasing would take on that.
And we did one-on-ones with more than I think 15 high quality joint venture partners.
I don’t think there was a single one of which said we’re not interest.
We ended up boiling that down to a handful and then ultimately one and reached the term sheet in the – or at least a general term sheet in June.
But during the summer months when the kind Tsunami of demand reared its head and that's what Life Science and tech in Cambridge it was pretty clear to us that if we could -- again the tradeoff being if we could take advantage of this very unusual and extraordinary demand in the market versus the desire to joint venture we would do that.
But we clearly want to maintain flexibility.
And if the lead joint venture partner were we to go back to them many time decided not to we know there is a handful of other high quality partners who would covet being our partner with this land.
This has got to be ground zero land in the best certainly life science market and one of the best sub markets in the entire country if not world and so we are not too worried about that.
So I am sorry if I didn't what other part of that question didn't I cover.
If it would potentially become a JV in the future once they…  I think if they turned out that we are not able to sign substantially all of the demand that we are getting at the moment we certainly would look to go back to a joint venture.
And as I said I think there are numerous partners that would be willing to go forward with us.
I think that if we weren't successful in 100% leasing these projects like we expect to do then a joint venture partner’s hurdle rates will make more sense for the risk profile that we would be bringing back to them.
I mean right now with the type of returns that they are looking for and we are providing very little risk it is not a big match.
So I think we'd be returning an opportunity that is more to a JV.
At this time we will go to Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
Yes Joel I wonder if you could talk about how far long in the process are these leases and are they all life science or tech at 50 60 and 100 a Binney.
Yes.
Well since we have Tom here I will let him comment but the suffice it to say we have letter of intent that we are working on and coming very close to an agreement on which would then move to a lease pretty quickly on 50.
We are trying to tee up the parameters of the economics on 60 and we are deep into LOI negotiations on a 100 but Tom do you want to maybe characterize it even more globally than that.
Yes that's accurate Joe.
I think the we have some companies some of the demand is pure growth from existing Cambridge based tenants including the couple of life science companies there is one which is a consolidation of an existing Cambridge tenants have leases in multiple locations in the city and wants to be under one roof.
There is another one that's to me and from an out of market life science Company.
So we have a number of ongoing discussions and we are quite confident that we will be able to lock down one or more of these probably soon for summer and perhaps all of the spaces available which totals over 950 000 square feet.
Yes at the moment all of these are life science companies but there is a significant demand from tech and there is one large tech RFP that's out there that we will clearly respond to as well.
We are looking at multiple back up offers as well.
So it’s not just one shot on goal here so we feel pretty comfortable with that.
And if we look at the potential cost is it accurate to look at the cost per square foot of 75 to 125 Binney to estimate or is that higher? So I think we in some cases here we are looking at tenants who are more office and lab use within some of these buildings you recall when we did 225 Binney we had a life sciences tenant that took office use in that building.
So he cautioned that the lower in total I would say the range could be up to as much as the 75/125 Binney that's kind of a higher cost project in terms of the a model lab space in that in that tenant requirement and it could range down somewhat from but it wouldn't be too far off the total that 75/125 [indiscernible].
Okay last question on funding Joe you mentioned asset sales these projects will be coming online till '16 and '17.
Are the asset sales going to be mostly concentrated in '15 or stretched over a longer period?  We are working through number of assets that will identify here over the coming months.
So it's a bit fluid on the dispositions but our bogie at least for solving for our capital needs for '15 will be to execute a number of transactions that fit the capital plan in our business.
Really that will allow us to reinvest the capital into these really high value development projects.
But I would say we would likely continue with this broad strategy i.e.
invest cash flows that we retain from operations use EBITDA growth to debt fund without impacting leverage and then continue to identify asset selectively for a recycling and reinvestment in to the business and like we mapped out there is not a whole lot of land left but we’ll do some lands but there will be some non-core assets and we will identify some that are more core like which should represent some high value opportunities to monetizing and reinvest.
I think Sheila with that though different than happened in the past; I think you can still expect that we would have an increase in FFO per share during this time period.
So that’s something we’re keeping firmly in mind as well.
And now we’ll take a question from Jim Sullivan with Cowen and Company.
My question for you in terms of just how strong this market is in Cambridge it does seem to be a level of demand growth which is exceptional and I think in the prepared comments you talked about low 70s is the rent per foot triple net for high quality built to suite.
And I wonder if you could just remind us back in first half of the year I think we were talking about low 60s to mid-60s is that right? Is that how much the movement has been? The movement is on that order.
I would say that we’ve certainly seen in proposals that other landmarks have been sending out to tenants and our own proposals we’ve seen significant movement from earlier in the year on the magnitude of $10 a square foot or more.
Can you give us a handle on what might have happened on construction costs for the same period? We project construction cost increases currently in the range of 6% NOI.
And then finally from me can you give us an update on what’s happening with the Volpe site? I know this is some time off but there was this I guess RFI.
Maybe I don’t know if there is another date certain for the next step in the process but if you could just give us an update if there is another step and number one and number two.
What Alexander’s posture is here in terms of partner or not and the scale and the size of that project.
So there was and RFI which was due in early October we know there were significant number of respondents to that RFI were told that the federal GSA is working on an RFP we’ve had some folks tell us I think it might be out as early as sometime in Q1 of next year.
We would imagine there would be probably a multi-month response timeframe for that.
And that many development companies and operators would likely pursue that property which under proposed disowning in Cambridge accommodates if my recollection is correct over 2.5 million square feet of commercial space over 1.5 million square feet of proposed residential zoning.
So Alexandria certainly is following this closely we made a response to the RFI.
We expect that once we see the RFP then we’ll work carefully to evaluate how we ought to pursue what will be a very interesting opportunity.
And in terms of you have a partner I believe with this working with you on this? We have spoken with multiple partners; we have not selected a partner.
This time we’ll move Graham with [indiscernible].
Just wondering if you could sort of approximate the returns on joint ventures versus just going in company owned route? What order or kind of spread are we talking about? This is Peter I mean from a yield on cost standpoint that’s not -- it wouldn’t dilute what we’re going to achieve it’s just going to -- the amount of investment we have would be obviously diluted by the amount of partner capital we bring in.
We would be in a position to earn a promote so it’s possible that we could actually leverage that partners investment and increase our own return.
But what it does as it gives up upside to the future because we take that capital.
Take that capital -- possibly are you yielding assets in the future? I am sorry you cut out could you ask that again? I mean employee capital being that you can employ the capital at higher rates in the future that you anticipate at higher lease rates of because they are the properties that you see with higher potential returns.
Well the reason that we might employ other people’s capital is an alternative to raising equity through common stock sales.
So it’s just an -- the opportunity cost for doing that is up side in our own developments.
Have you figured what the blended cost to capital is for ARE currently versus those alternatives? We have but we’re not prepared to share though.
The land sale inventory.
I think we need to move onto another questioner.
Next question will be from Ross Nussbaum.
Couple there's some questions.
Joe is there anything you can say at this point about the press reports that you're acquiring Memorial Drive and Cambridge.
Yes I can tell you that similar to the press report that we were joint venturing with somebody for an apartment building in Boulder Colorado you can't always believe everything you read but I think it's fair to say that we don't comment on speculation and when we're prepared to announce if that happen to be an acquisition or whatever it is we'll announce it when the time is appropriate so I'd have nothing more to say.
<br>Okay second question is back to Binney Street.
How would you characterize your discussions with the tenants you're having today versus where you were three months to six months ago because I know when we've spoken and met all year you've been I'd say similarly extraordinarily bullish on the leasing prospects there.
So are you finally at the point where you're pretty darn confident this is getting over the finish line ASAP? Yes let me say this and then I'll ask Tom to come in.
When we go back to 4Q of '13 when we announced kind of on our strategic optionality strategy if you will that we were assuming we were going to joint venture and we put into play a pretty intense process to accomplish that I'd say the level of demand and forward movement of that demand in Cambridge probably didn't come to a head until the summer.
And so maybe that's the really operative time then I’ll let Tom kind of characterize it.
Yes look I think it's really number of transactions that we would characterize it in the pipeline and a handful of them are getting to be very-very real in terms of the trading of proposals the frequency of discussions with brokers and with principles and these feel very much like they're moving toward completion and of course the answer the truth is that they're not complete until they are complete and we don't have anything signed yet but we're very positive negotiations ongoing and they feel it's been a compliment since specifically they feel like they're moving patients quite soon.
And I would say that in all three circumstances the lead party in all three of these cases we've had our prior relationships with so these are not parties that we have that we have not had a prior relationship with in other words we don't know each other so that's also I think a very helpful factor.
Okay and then finally for me I guess I'm wondering a little bit why you'd wait if you will for proceeds from potential asset sales to come in ex-quarters or ex-funds down the road rather than just hang up the phone from this earning's call pull the trigger and issue equity aid handle on the stock price given that we're in and uncertain and increasingly volatile world why take the risk that you'd be able to transact on asset sales couple of months from now then just take the equity now and get the balance sheet down toward your goals.
Yes well that's certainly a relevant question and certainly one part of an argument that one could conceive of.
In reality though Ross we have enough confidence in the demand going forward here for a while I think Peter articulated we also feel that we're in a pretty decent environment on the recycling of both land and some assets that I think we can look forward to I don't know how long that will last but I feel good about at least as we look at a few quarters.
Our leverage let’s face it we’re operating in a better leverage level than we ever had before and better than a number of other companies that are really in great shape and have strong stock prices.
And we just had meetings with the rating agencies in July.
So we feel comfortable with where we've come over the last couple of years we've made dramatic improvements on virtually every single credit metric one could look at.
And I think we feel good about where we are.
And I think we'd like to protect our growth and earnings by minimizing the equity issuances and looking at those assets that we could sell.
So I think that's our current game plan at the moment but I mean the situation you passed is related certainly one that reasonable people could look at but I think we're going to try to repeat what we did this year and in '14 and try to do it in a way that I think makes the most sense all around and minimize this dilution.
But again if there was a big change in the equity markets then we'll deal with that.
(Operator Instructions) At this time we will take a question from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Can you talk about what was the other income in the quarter looks like you are a little bit higher than usual? Jamie Dean Shigenaga here.
Other income was $2.3 million.
Actually I call it a little tad light from our run rate rather than higher it was just higher from the second quarter.
Second quarter was down less than 500 000.
So that was an usually low quarter due to very small amount of investment gains in the quarter.
So I would suggest from onward purpose as you should expect about a $3 million run rate for quarter.
Which is been historically pretty much worth enough.
Okay and then can you talk about your any of the largest 2015 expiration been any that may not be covered or you think might be moving out of this point? Yeah the two big ones that I will let Steve deal with that but the two that strike me we have one full building user in a suburb in Route 128 that is moving out and that’s a building that we are looking to release or potentially market.
And then another one that rolls a full building user government user in North Carolina and we have already got good re-leasing prospects on that.
Those are the two standout full building users but as Steve said we've got unresolved paired down to three quarters of a million feet in ’15 which we think is really at this point in time pretty great.
You know that that’s right.
Jaime just a add to that.
That’s just about 4% of the asset base and when you take out those two pieces that takes out about another third got a block of space in tech square so we think that will be an opportunity rather than a concern that’s in the 60 000 square foot range and then potentially in the ETC market and San Diego as well.
So no other real large blocks other than the two that Joel cited and spread out pretty uniformly with smaller pieces.
Okay and then I guess for the 2015 expiration schedule.
Give the sense of where you think those are those rents are versus market? Well that’s kind of a mix but if you want to go back Jaime its Dean here again.
If you want to go back to my prepared comments.
I didn’t give specific guidance for ’15 but I did comment that cash rents on lease renewals and releasing a space should be meaningfully stronger than our performance in ’14 and we will layout the plan on Investor Day for you in more detail.
Okay so just higher at this point.
And then I guess just finally on San Diego we have seen market conditions are getting stronger there generally across many sectors.
What are you guys seeing in terms of your portfolio and maybe opportunities to do more non-life science leasing? Just how should we think about your business plan there going forward given the conditions seems to be exciting? Yeah hi Jaime this is Dan Ryan.
So word on usual situation at San Diego that we basically are out of inventory like most of the other regions and we are now actively employing what land bank we have.
As Steve mentioned earlier we are in discussions of an excess of 600 000 square feet of new build in our region.
So it’s a rigorous mark right now lot of what we responding to is internal portfolio growth.
The question about whether we are crossing over into seeing some tech demand we do have a couple of things.
We did a Barnes Canyon project which we leased to a tech user; they have come back after having moved in for three week and asked if they can lease the next building over which is about 45 000 square feet so we are working through that.
So we are seeing probably not as vigorous as Steve’s market but probably 80-20ish kind of life science and tech demand.
And do you have a preference one versus the other in terms of your return? I think we are generally agnostic about I think it’s a matter where you are in the risk level with life science tenant fee versus the tech tenant fee.
And we are generally agnostic about it just really trying to target the best return in the overall risk adjusted capital investment.
That does conclude question-and-answer session.
I will turn the things back over to Joe Marcus for closing remarks.
Thank you everybody.
We did a well under an hour and that is great.
So we will see many of you at Marriott and look forward to Investor Day or year-end call.
Thank you again.
Again that does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jenifer and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Ms.
Chiger you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal securities laws.
Actual results may differ materially from those projections and forward-looking statements additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as contained in the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the [Audio Gap].
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to our fourth quarter and year end 2014 call.
With me today are Dean Peter Steve and Dan and I want to start out with a couple of macro comments and first of all really very proud of what our amazing Alexandria team collectively accomplished in 2014 our 20th anniversary year.
We are really blessed to have a great business an outstanding opportunity set and a business which passionately and positively impacts the quality of human health each and every day.
We had an exceptional year with strong core growth and significant growth from completion of highly pre-leased value creation projects.
Important to our success this year was Alexandria’s class A facilities and our collaborative science and tech campuses and really the hot urban innovation clusters characterized by rising ramps giving us pricing power rising occupancy and constrained supply in our core urban cluster markets.
2014 also saw the U.S.
FDA hit a 18 year high with drug approvals 41 novel medicines versus 27 the year before and we’re very proud that 56% of those 41 companies were ARE client tenants.
And there were a number of very significant breakthrough treatments for a variety of cancers and rare diseases.
Dean will comment on guidance in a few minutes but the midpoint of the guidance as we go forward for 2015 as you know is 510 which is an 8.3% growth and when combined with our dividend we're predicting a double digit return for this year.
Internal growth operations in leasing really are characterized by very strong year end occupancy at 97% for North American operating properties.
We have very solid same store or same property NOI growth and the fourth quarter witnessed solid leasing particularly from North Carolina and San Diego.
Let me just comment on two markets for the moment.
One is the Cambridge Boston market.
The mark-to-market analysis that we’ve done internally indicates this is a continuing durable market our so called greater Boston cluster and we’re expecting growth of about 17.5% on a cash basis and 21.8% on a GAAP basis.
Occupancy is up 200 basis points to 98.8% compared to 4Q '13; lease rates were in the $60 plus range triple-net for existing product; and prospects seeking new large blocks of space at our Alexandria Center at Kendall Square are anticipating rents in the low 70s triple-net on a GAAP basis.
In the San Francisco cluster occupancy is up by about 120 basis points from the same period a year ago to 98.9% in the operating asset base and worth noting that we resolved the remaining vacancy last week.
So we’re now fully 100% leased.
Lease rates for new product are in the mid to high $50 triple-net as the proposition allocate -- office allocation continues to constrain supply of new product in the Bay area.
The mark-to-market refresh indicates further growth to about 11.7% cash and then somewhere between 17% and 18% on a GAAP basis.
And as I'll mention in a moment we’re advancing the entitlements and lease negotiations at 510 Townsend and anticipate completion in the near term as well as finalizing the design this month for what will prove to be an absolute world class and iconic tech facility for Uber at Mission Bay adjacent to the amazing league leading warriors arena and we’ll disclose yields on those in the 1Q supplement once our construction cost and so forth are finalized.
Moving to external growth briefly again we had good leasing progress on our value add development projects both at Longwood and the Alexandria Center for Life Science in New York City and I want to comment a little bit on the near term value creation development pipeline Page 31 of the supplement.
At Campus Point Dan's been very successful.
He expects to have the lease for about 75% of the project the new building finalized hopefully this month entitlements following shortly thereafter and then construction starting probably by the second quarter.
At 50 Binney we look to finalize the lease for the full 50 Binney project in the first quarter here and hopefully to finalize a lease in the second quarter for 60 Binney and that construction is fully underweighting and then our plan.
When it comes to a 100 Binney we’re trading paper with at least five substantial space users.
Construction will depend upon significant pre-leasing but we expect that to happen in the relative near term.
Coming back to 510 Townsend Street for a moment we expect the lease to be finalized this month entitlements to follow in March and probably kick off a construction by the end of the second quarter.
And as many of you noted we did make a number of acquisitions over the past quarter including the remaining 10% interest in the Alexandria’s Tech Square Center which we purchased from MIT the remaining 10% interest half paid this year and half paid next year and as we indicated in the supplement and in the press release we see very significant upside in the lease rolls and that project is really kind of the -- probably the single best located project in all of Cambridge.
And then also we did acquire another project from MIT their 640 Memorial Drive.
Dean may make a comment or two.
We did have a 5.9% initial cap rate moving to 6.4% at 116 when the rental phasing is completed.
This purchase in the mid-Cambridge market really ties to our 780 Memorial Drive and 790 Memorial Drive clustered development that have been very highly leased and very successful.
So now we’re starting to build a cluster in the mid-Cambridge market.
It is subject to a ground lease with MIT and MIT in -- for their decision to use our capital for future development decided to put this market out for sale.
We have a very unique relationship with MIT and also the two tenants that inhabit 640 Memorial Drive.
I won’t get into any details on the balance sheet.
We’ll try to make this presentation somewhat shorter than normal.
And I’ll ask Dean to kind of comment on a number of subjects and then we’ll open it up for Q&amp;A quickly here.
Thanks Joel.
Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everybody.
I’ve got four important topics I want to cover today.
First obviously our strong performance in 2014 and continued focus on growth and FFO per share and growth in net asset value.
Second I want to touch on our quality cash flows and disciplined allocation of capital in the high value urban innovation cluster sub markets.
Third I’ll touch on and update on our significant progress on our capital plan for 2015 and key considerations for net asset value and lastly I'll close out some comments on guidance.
Jumping right in the fourth quarter was a very strong quarter of performance with FFO per share of $1.23 and really the wrap up of an outstanding year with total shareholder return of 44.7%.
Our FFO per share for the full year was $4.80 up 9.1% over 2013.
Our strong performance in 2014 is projected to continue into 2015 with our mid-point of FFO per share of $5.20 or 8.3% over 2014.
Our strong cash NOI growth from value creation deliveries throughout 2014 is driving significant growth in NOI and cash flows in 2015 with further increases from significant value creation deliveries in 2015.
We continue to focus on growth in FFO per share and net asset value in 2015 and beyond.
One of the key drivers of growth in FFO per share and net asset value in 2014 was the significant quarter-over-quarter growth in net operating income and cash flows and we expect this growth to continue into 2015.
That will drive continued growth in net asset value.
The quality of our ABR has improved significantly in recent years supporting high quality and strong cash flows the three key areas driving quality ABR and cash flows include; first 56% of our ABR is derived from investment grade rated client tenants and again this represents an industry leading statistic.
Second 83% of our ABR is generated from high value urban centers of innovation including Greater Boston primarily the submarkets of Cambridge and along with Medical Center the San Francisco Bay area primarily Mission Bay and Suma Palo Alto and the Stanford Research Park New York City San Diego again primarily Torrey Pines and UTC and in Seattle primarily in Lake Union.
83% of our ABR R&amp;D's high value centers of innovation reflect a significant focus of our capital allocation over many years in our urban innovation cluster submarkets.
And third we remain disciplined in our allocation of capital going forward.
85% of our capital allocation in 2015 is projected to be in the same high value urban centers of innovation that drive 83% of our ABR today.
Additionally over one half of our capital allocation for 2015 is projected to be invested in two of the top destinations for science and technology innovation in the Cambridge and Mission Bay/Suma submarkets.
Let me briefly clarify our initial cash yield for a purchase of our ground lease hold interest at 640 Memorial located in Mid Cambridge.
Our release disclosed an initial cash yield of 6.4%.
For clarification one of the two leases we acquired with the property has about one year remaining before a rent concession burns off.
So our cash yield as Joel had mentioned on day one is approximately 5.9% to 6% which increases to about 6.4% in about 12 months.
Moving next to the great progress on our dispositions and our capital plan for 2015 we have $235 million in dispositions identified to-date of which about $113 million was completed in the fourth quarter and January of 2015.
We have an additional $122 million of properties held for sale and these proceeds from the sales will be invested immediately into substantially leased Class A value creation development projects.
Our mid-point of our 2015 guidance for asset sales is approximately $390 million with $178 million completed or identified and held for sale.
The remaining of our mid-point of our guidance is about $212 million which represents our sale proceeds.
At a very high level a portion of the $212 million in proceeds from remaining asset sales really will provide a benefit or a reduction of leverage so reduces our debt to offset a reduction in EBITDA.
The exact mix of land versus operating asset sales will be determined in the next couple of quarters.
While we’re covering capital let me briefly touch on approximate pricing for unsecured bonds.
At a very high level we believe pricing for 10 year unsecured bonds in the last month would have been roughly about 180 basis points over 10 year treasuries or approximately 3.6%.
In 2015 we have the flexibility to execute a 10 year bond deal with a maturity in 2025 providing us the opportunity to both extend their weighted average remaining term of outstanding debt and continue to ladder maturities.
Next I just want to touch on some very important NAV considerations.
For your reference on Page 4 of our supplemental you’ll find a brief outline of key considerations for NAV models in our Company from recent dispositions and assets held for sale.
The key point here is that various important items included in our fourth quarter results will drive a meaningful overall increase in net asset value due to the following: continued significant growth in cash NOI in the fourth quarter of $4.6 million or $18.3 million on an annualized basis.
This is on top of the cash NOI growth for the third quarter of about $5.8 million or $23.4 million on an annualized basis.
We expect significant growth in cash NOI quarter-to-quarter to continue which has been and will be a key driver of growth in NAV going forward.
We have increased our developable square footage by approximately 416 000 square feet 88% of which represents increases for near term development projects located in University Town Center including 214 000 square feet at 5200 Illumina Way and about 103 000 square feet at Campus Point and we continue work on finalizing these entitlements.
Page 4 of our supplemental package highlighted other key NAV considerations including the sale of real estate located in Toronto.
The key highlights of this transaction are that we had an operating property classified in rental properties generating operating losses due to operating expenses of about $1.4 million per year related to ground rent expense.
As such we believe most NAV models had no value or negative value attributed to this investment.
We completed this sale in January 2015.
So if you update your model for the fourth quarter NOI remember to make an additional adjustment to increase NOI in order to eliminate the annual operating expense of $1.4 million.
Additionally since most NAV models likely attributed no value to negative value for this asset remember to add the proceeds from the closing of the sale of $54 million as a positive adjustment to NAV.
Also because of factors I just described we believe the impairment of $16.6 million for this asset had no impact on most NAV models.
I should also point out that the impairment is primarily related to foreign currency exchange rates taxes and other closing costs for that property.
The next item to consider for NAV is the impairment related to the sale of nine land parcels with seven old industrial buildings located in South San Francisco.
The buyer of these assets operates redevelops and develops industrial buildings.
These parcels were previously classified as land held for future development.
The impairment charge was about $24.7 million and will slightly offset increases in NAV I just described.
Further details on this sale are also included on Page 4 of our supplemental package.
Briefly on 500 Forbes this is a high quality core like asset located in South San Francisco that we acquired in 2007.
However we did recognize an impairment related to the write off non-cash items including both net book value related to an acquired below market lease and improvements we received from the prior tenant.
We expect to complete the sale of this property at a market cap rate reflective of a high quality asset with quality improvements and an investment grade rated tenant.
Since most NAV models value at this property based upon cash NOI and a market cap rate which is consistent with our expected sale we believe this non cash impairment of $9.6 million has no impact on most NAV models on our Company.
It's important to also note that the proceeds from these sales will be in immediately invested into highly lease value creation development projects at very attract cash yields relative to current market capitalization rates.
Additionally these sales an immediate investment into value creation projects is well aligned with our overall strategy to continue to grow FFO per share and net asset value.
In closing on this topic the key here is that we believe there are several drivers in our fourth quarter results that will result in a significant increase in net asset value including significant growth in cash NOI additional FAR that we are adding to key near term ground up development projects and a net positive impact from completed and pending sales including any end back from impairment charges.
Briefly I want to comment on our 7% series D preferred stock.
You may have noticed during the quarter we purchased about 513 000 shares or roughly 5.1% of our outstanding 7% series D preferred stock for an aggregate price of about $14.4 million or $27.98 per share.
This results in a preferred stock redemption charge of about $2 million or about $0.03 per share.
Our guidance assumes that we do not repurchase any additional shares of our outstanding 7% series D preferred stock in 2015.
Lastly on guidance the detailed assumptions underlying our guidance for 2015 are included on Page 5 of our supplemental package.
We are extremely pleased with the solid execution by our team in 2014 with the delivery of strong growth and cash NOI FFO per share up 9.1% over 2013 and significant growth in net asset value.
We remain focused on continuing this growth into 2015 with FFO per share forecasted up at 8.3% over 2014.
A key driver to our growth in net asset value as been and will continue to be the significant growth in cash NOI quarter to quarter.
We believe we have the right assets in the right locations and the best to roster our client tenants and we remain focused on continuing to build our best in class franchise.
With that I'll turn it back to Joel.
Thank you.
Operator let's open it up for Q&amp;A please.
I wanted to ask you on your Technology Square purchase.
Was there any decision around -- buying the 10% now versus at some other point was there some sort of trigger that you needed to buy that now; and if you could give maybe a little more color on the 100 000 square feet that you could potentially out there as well.
And then just more broadly are there additional opportunities with MIT where you would be kind of the natural buyer I guess? Well let me -- this is Joel.
With respect to the timing it really is driven not by us but MIT's Management Company's decision to sell certain assets so that they can invest them in development projects both on and off campus.
So that really drove the decision for timing on Tech Square and 640 Memorial Drive.
When it comes to other opportunities certainly those would be very interesting.
That given Cambridge is one of our most important markets.
When it comes to the 100 000 square feet we're working on the design and entitlement of that.
And so I'm not sure I could say much more than that.
Tom is unavailable today but I'll make a note.
We'll comment in our next conference call and give you some updated details on that.
Okay.
And then could I just ask one more about the land bank that you've talked about potentially selling pieces from -- and you mentioned the Forbes Boulevard and South San Francisco but is there more or much more from kind of the 2006 2007 sort of vintage if you will that you would look to bring to market this year? Not particularly.
We did use a set of parcels there for the development of the Onyx campus which when Onyx got acquired by Amgen they succeeded to those assets.
We do have another set of parcels for development but I think that's something we'll continue to look at as time goes on.
So it's possible but nothing certain at the moment.
So if you look at your acquisition guidance and what you've already done year-to-date or scheduled to do year-to-date you've kind of hit that number.
So what does the acquisition pipeline look like from here? I don't think we have anything that is in the near-term but we look at everything that comes to market that we feel is in the sweet spot of either the nature of the facility and certainly the nature of the location.
But I don't think we have anything in the near-term that we're looking at.
And as I just said to Smedes the timing of the Tech Square acquisition or really the sale by MIT and the decision to market 640 Memorial Drive really driven by their own capital needs and on decision making timing had nothing to do with ours I can assure you.
And then you had meant -- you had commented that you are starting to build -- you could start to build a cluster in the mid Cambridge market.
Can you talk a little bit about what might be different about that segment of Cambridge whether it's tenants or building type or if that becomes a real investment for the future for you guys what's different about it? Well I think if you look at a map it's directly west of East Cambridge.
It encompasses kind of circles -- it kind of touches MIT and circles around towards Harvard Square.
There are a number of owners and developers in there.
MIT certainly has an important toe hold.
Some years ago we actually owned a property next to 640 Memorial called 620 Memorial that was ultimately leased to Pfizer and then I think we sold it to them and they -- I think they turned around and sold it just a year or two ago.
But back about 10 12 years ago we built 790 Memorial Drive and 780 Memorial Drive.
Tom really managed that development right near the Polaroid building.
And so that's been a real important anchor for us in that mid Cambridge market.
So we like that market and when this opportunity came up we decided to move on it.
Okay.
And then I guess a similar question in San Francisco.
As Mission Bay is filling up what's kind of the next cluster you could create there? Will you go further south or you just try to keep penetrating the CBD? Well I think you will see naturally it move out -- you can't move east from Mission Bay because you'll be in the Bay but you can move south you can move west and you can move north.
So I think those would be the natural extensions at Mission Bay.
Okay.
And then finally on the land sales in the quarter any impairments? If we look at our current land bank just what level of impairments you think you still need to see if you did sell some of that remaining land? Or is it finally now more of a mark to market? Yes that's -- well it's always difficult to speculate what land will trade at Jamie but I think if you turn to Page 37 of our supplemental bifurcate the land holdings into two buckets we have 2.3 million square feet in near-term and that product that you know is heavily under negotiation.
So I'll skip over that.
That's all going to yield very nicely very attractive returns.
The future bucket you have about 2.9 million square feet and if you go through that the larger components -- where the largest component 1.7 million spread across multiple markets is $32 a foot I don't -- I am not really concerned in any meaningful way with that.
It's $56 million.
Everything else? If you’ve got Technology Square just some residential and Cambridge Grand Avenue which is adjacent -- the fourth side at the Onyx Amgen campus plus some other land on Grand Avenue.
So great locations.
We can make money on those deals.
If we sold we'd be close to that depending on the buyer.
If you compared it to the trade we just did we traded out of San Francisco to an industrial buyer at about $80 a foot.
So maybe a slight haircut but these are pretty small dollars Jamie.
So I think all in we're in really good shape.
And we'll go next to Sheila McGrath from Evercore ISI.
The GAAP cap rate on 500 Forbes looks to be about 5%.
I'm just wondering if the cash cap rate is going to be close to that and could you describe the level of interest from buyers for that asset? The GAAP cap rate is shown on our disposition page on the supplemental probably at about 51 Sheila as you stated.
I think the cash number trails that just a tad maybe somewhere in the 30 to 40 bps behind that.
Okay and were there a lot of potential buyers interested in that asset? Let us not comment about the transaction itself other than to say that you have a very high quality asset that I think will be very attractive and we feel you can get a sense for our approximate price point that we expect to complete on the transaction.
So I think it's an attractive trade for us.
Okay and then on 50 60 and 100 Binney the supplemental says 2016 and '17.
If they are complete in '16 it would be very very late in the year and not contributing or how should we think about timing in '16 for those projects? Yes I think -- it's hard to speculate on timing too specifically because there's a lot of negotiations ongoing and it ultimately will depend on the terms of the lease but I think it's safe to say that if it contributes into '16 at all its fourth quarter.
That's probably the earliest.
But the exact timing for each of those buildings will depend very specifically on the lease negotiation.
So we can provide better color as we execute transactions.
Okay and last question on investment page you did have some unrealized gains.
Was there an IPO or two and should we assume that there will be some sales from that bucket in 2015? Yes we had -- actually over the past two years I think we've had '14 IPOs.
So yes there will be I'm sure sales over coming quarters and years.
And we'll go next to Michael Carroll from RBC Capital Markets.
Hey Joel can you discuss the demand you're seeing at the Illumina campus in the UTC.
With a doubling of the size of the project that's under development has the timing changed on the potential projects that are in the near term value creation pipeline? Yes Dan is here.
So I'm going to let him comment.
Yes good morning.
So when you ask about the demand in terms of Illumina's growth it has been extremely robust.
The delivery of this next filming basically taps out there existing entitlements.
So we're in front of the city now to entitle for about now at 350 000 square feet of additional space and we have -- they have asked us to go ahead and progress on that additional square footage that we think we can get.
Could you expect -- I guess could that break ground in the next few years also? Is there enough demand for that? Yes I think that's a fair assumption.
Okay great.
And then I guess my last question can you talk a little bit about your asset sales in general? How much of the portfolio going forward do you want to sell? Is it that that you just want to raise capital through asset sales or is there other assets that you want to dispose of? Well I think for the moment you have our guidance on what we'd like to accomplish for 2015.
So we've got a range -- call it at the midpoint of $390 million.
Again $178 has been held for sale.
So either it's been completed or pending and that leaves us with $212 million to complete for the rest of the year.
And again that number is a mix when we think about what remains -- a little bit of land and some operating assets and again we'll bring more color in the next couple of quarters.
And I think when you go forward it's hard to speculate what will look towards in 2016 but I think we'll look at our options as we manage through our capital plan like we have this year a lot of -- how much will be debt funded and then is there an opportunity to recycle assets for reinvestment.
I think those would be our two priorities.
And we'll go next to Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
What is your tenant retention percentage generally and how has it trended over the recent past? I think we did a study about a year ago when we looked back probably seven years if I recall and the retention rate has been pretty consistent as you roll that forward.
It’s been averaging about 85% over that time frame.
And the only qualifier I'd give -- as you know acquired a couple of assets recently that were development targets right out of the gate.
It was leased.
We acquired a lease in place but had generally maybe 12 months of remaining term and we’ll exclude something like that because that’s intentional targeted lease rolls that were planned for redevelopments.
But it’s a very solid retention rate.
You could tell from our occupancy stats and our leasing performance that it's all very consistent so very strong retention.
Okay and then looking at the leasing schedule average lease term of 4.3 years for this quarter it's kind of moved around that number over the past few quarters.
What is your kind of desire to make that a longer or shorter number considering the strength of the markets? Yes it depends Rich so much on the nature of the lease the nature of the location and multi-tenant buildings with companies that grow rapidly and need flexibility on space.
Three five seven years are kind of where the sweet spot is and then you get into the development.
You see this quarter was about over 10 years.
So you see in the larger blocks of space 10 15 20.
That’s really how it's broken down for years and years and we don’t expect to change that.
Okay.
And then thinking of NAV you’re developing to 7% to 8% stabilized return.
What you think -- if you were to turn around and just sell those assets upon stabilization what do you think the market would purchase those assets for? Well of course it depends on what market you are in.
I’d say Cambridge.
So let's go high.
Well I think you’re probably in potential sub five cap rate.
Okay.
And where do you think a range would be? If that’s the floor do you think it could be six of us at the top or depending on where you are in the country? Well again it depends on the nature of the building.
If you have an older multi-tenant building it would be higher than five but if you have a new Class A facility with a long term lease and the credit tenant you’re not going to be above that.
Got you.
And then last question.
You took Asia out of the occupancy statistics.
I know you have a dedicated sheet for Asia on Page 47 but I’m curious is there anything symbolic about why you did that? Is there any change of strategy in Asia or if you can comment on that please.
No change.
There is really -- Asia is a such small portion of our business and as you know we’re really focused on our domestic growth opportunities here.
So we continue to focus on the lease up of our properties there but we have some work ahead.
But again it’s a small piece of the business.
It is small but do you think the long-term strategy is to be there at some point in five 10 years or something like that? I’d say -- it’s hard to speculate.
I think we yield nicely in India on the operating assets and you can tell from our disclosures China has been a little tougher on the returns.
But it’s hard to speculate going forward.
But I think it’s clear we’re not trying to put any significant new capital into those markets.
Clearly investors and management and the board et cetera want us to focus on our core urban clusters here in the United States.
And we’ll go next to Michael Knott from Green Street Advisors.
It’s actually Kevin Tyler here.
You commented earlier on Mid-Cambridge then you just give some color as it relates to cap rates in Cambridge overall but the lease yield reported -- cash lease yield was about 5.9 as you said on 640 Memorial Drive and I guess I was just curious -- based on the activity in that market what is an appropriate spread between Mid-Cambridge and Kendall Square let say? And if this was 5.9 and Joe you say 5.4 high quality in Cambridge how do you kind of explain that differential.
Unfortunately Tom is not here.
So we’ll make a note and ask that question during our next call but let me give you my own view on that.
There could be -- again it so much depends on the nature of the facility itself new versus somewhat data is at multi-tenant single-tenant made term the lease credit and then exactly where it is.
So 640 Memorial Drive I think it’s encumbered by a ground lease.
So that’s one thing.
It is Mid-Cambridge.
It is a really developed fairly new facility but has two tenants long term leases.
So that was in the heart of Kendall Square.
My guess is maybe 50 basis points.
It may drop to a five five.
There is no upside on those rents as well.
They are long term.
There is no near term ability to try to mark-to-market.
So it’s more of the stabilized asset.
It could even be -- maybe better said between 50 and 100 basis points between Mid-Cambridge and Cambridge.
Okay thanks.
On the development side you guys are continuing to talk about bringing development down.
As a percent of gross investment I think the number you're quoting is 13% in the first quarter.
But is there any broader read through on that number kind through a shift in strategy acquisitions versus development going forward? And then how much of the reduction can you ascribe to portfolio growth or just recent deliveries.
Yes so maybe I’ll talk to strategy and let Dean talk to the arithmetical calculation.
And on strategy -- no change in strategy.
We view ourselves really as best at creating value through development and re-development.
We do take the opportunity on occasion to look at acquisition.
640 Memorial Drive was unusual for us.
Tech Square was right up our sweet spot because we've covered it.
We've approached MIT for years actually and trying to buy that interest but they haven’t been ready because they didn’t have a use of proceed.
And then they kind of decided they were ready.
So it kind of just depends but I think it's fair to say that we believe we can create better value by creating value not buying somebody else's value.
Yes.
And let me add some color.
I would say that the land bank dropping down to 13% or I should say non income producing assets as a percentage of growth real estate declines to 13% and that's really through -- substantially through deliveries offset a little bit increase in construction spend.
If you want to put that into perspective though that’s still roughly 1.4 billion of non-income producing assets with 50% of that being active projects which as you is highly leased and about another 25% another of that number sits in near term which is in Cambridge 50 Binney 60 Binney and 100 Binney.
So I think we've got a good sized future pipeline but I think to put that number into further perspective back in 2007 it was still about $1.3 billion.
The Company was much smaller.
So as we grow in size that percentage will naturally become a smaller piece of our business while still providing us great opportunities to grow respectively with build-to-suit opportunities.
And I think our focus will be just being very careful and prudent on how much land we carry at any given point in time so we can minimize the carry and deliver product to the market as quickly as we can.
Joel one question for you with regard to the backlog of demand and interest in your four key hub market.
Are you seeing -- or what's the breakdown maybe between tech office or traditional office and kind of lab demand? And I guess the gist of the question is one are lab tenants in any particular market being priced out by higher rents? And two are there any particular markets where the lab demand has really ebbed as the tech office demand has been flowing? Yes I would say maybe just taking around the country real quickly I think Seattle tech demand and lab demand have been fairly steady there.
I think again its very site specific.
In San Francisco clearly tech demand -- I think as Steve has indicated if you took a benchmark today it's probably 10x of what lab demand is.
But yet certain markets remain pretty key hot beds of laboratory properties South San Francisco Mission Bay even though Uber's coming in.
But I think some of the other markets have gravitated or stayed much more tech.
San Diego I don’t know Dan you could you speak to that.
Yes I think that we find that the life science demand is more significant than the tech demand.
And then moving to the other side of the country I think in Research Triangle Park really the ag demand and tech is really dominated there.
Maryland is pretty much kind of lab.
We haven’t seen a big tech influence there.
New York we're pretty much focused on life science there.
We haven’t really gravitated to tech for our center.
But obviously Silicon Ally and what's going on in New York City certainly some of the other REITs have been very strong tech demand.
But we think that’s -- we're creating a life science market there.
So it's a little different for us.
And then Cambridge -- clearly lab or office -- lab office or office by lab companies is still a main stay.
But there is increasing demand by big tech users.
So we're seeing both of it.
So a little bit of different story in each of the markets.
I don’t think any significant lab tenant is getting priced out of the market because if you look at the health of the bio tech industry and the pharma industry it's the best it's ever been for those two industries.
So they’ve got more than $200 billion on balance sheet.
And so if they want a site they'll go after it and if they're competing against a big tech tenant they can certainly go head to head.
I'm assuming that Uber building is not a lab ready building.
Are there any other new construction projects of the major variety that you're looking at or you started there are not going to be kind of lab ready at some point in the future? Maybe let's say it's not lab ready.
It would be -- lab capable would maybe be a better way to say it.
Clearly Townsend in we are likely sign a lease here on the very near-term with a brand name tech tenant.
And then Binney it's kind of a combination of who is bidding on that between life science and tech.
So we'll see what shakes out there.
But generally if we build a building -- and I think Tom and Steve had gone through this in a prior call we try to -- if it's in the sweet spot of a Cambridge or a Mission Bay we would make it lab capable and it's just a few bucks a foot to do that.
Of your 20 tenants I think AstraZeneca is the only one that comes up in the next two years or before the end of 2016 with a major maturity.
I think its 350 000 square feet.
Are you having any discussions with them or can you talk at all about that tenant and their desire to be in that space? Well I think there's a few leases there.
Some of it comes up early.
The reason why it's got 1.7 remaining years is some of this comes up in early '15.
Half of that space that does come up in early '15 I think has been resolved and has been leased.
We're still working on the remainder of that and that's probably about a third of that ABR that I'm referring to of that $9.3 million.
I don't have the details Dave on the other stuff with me.
But I think it's fair to say under the new leadership of Pascal Soriot they obviously thwarted the Pfizer takeover.
They've made a big presence -- continued significant presence through their MedImmune acquisition in the Maryland market.
They have a big presence in the Boston market.
So they are not retrenching in any of the locations that we've seen.
Dave I think the other two leases go out to '18 and '19.
So it's really weighted by a near-term rule.
Joel I wonder if you could give us kind of a top down summary of your view of East Cambridge and mid-Cambridge.
And what I'm referring to is that obviously the Volpe site I gather is still under discussion negotiation I guess with the GSA and we keep hearing about not just yourself but your peers in MIT looking to increase density where they can on sites that they control.
And then of course I guess there's a local community pressure to increase the amount of residential space anytime any increased density is provided.
And as you think about the value creation opportunities in East Cambridge as well I guess those value creation opportunities in the adjacent market and mid-Cambridge maybe you can kind of summarize for us how much square feet -- additional square feet might be entitled in the next couple of years in East Cambridge and kind of relate that to the demand that you foresee continuing or emerging over the next two years? Yes that's a question again I would probably punt on that to Tom and will try to address that in the next call.
But let me just say this.
There is right now about 2.3 million square feet of demand from at least seven major potential tenants seeking blocks greater than 100 000 square feet just in the East Cambridge area.
And so if you just look at what's out there just at this moment in time the numbers are pretty significant.
MIT has a big development that they are working.
I'd suspect that some of the capital that we've provided them will go into that.
It's a pretty large site that they will be able entitle and build on I think probably over the next maybe over the next -- begin over the 18 to 24 months.
The Volpe site is a large site that -- a couple of million square feet including both commercial and residential.
Obviously probably every developer between Boston and New York is looking at that.
There is the North Point site which is -- at the moment has not been in favor a couple of million square feet up there both on commercial and residential.
We understand that that actually is in play right now.
It was owned by a private equity shop here out of Los Angeles and they're looking to market it.
We've heard that there is a lot of foreign interest in that particular site.
And then others are looking to add density as you know Boston Properties et cetera.
So there is a pretty big -- there's a pretty big movement to expand entitlements and capabilities and availabilities in that market.
But there is somewhat tougher Cambridge council now looking at all kinds of issues including both residential and obviously traffic demands and just demand on city services.
So I think those are the kinds of things that will be balanced and be meted out over time.
So I think there is great opportunity but there is also timeframes.
We happen to have hit a very sweet spot.
Actually just you'd always like to think you're really smart but luck helps a lot with our 50 Binney 60 Binney and 100 Binney.
We hit a time when there is virtually nothing else that competes with us on a class A ground up construction basis in that market in the time went rents are at -- approaching all-time highs.
So I think we feel very fortunate about that but we're always on the lookout to make sure that our three and five year plans are cognizant of the growth in those markets.
And we think both East-Cambridge and Mid-Cambridge makes sense.
You have to remember too there is Alston [ph] which is a gigantic future development which Harvard manages over on the other side of the campus across the river and that could provide huge amount of space and growth for the next generation of companies.
But that's probably five to 10 year out project.
So a lot going on in that market.
Yes.
can you also just remind us when these sites might include as part of an increased density entitlement the development of residential what your philosophy is and how you're going to handle that if you do get entitled to do residential? Are you bringing [indiscernible]? Yes we've been required to build certain residential on the Binney street quarter.
I think it's about 273.
Yes 273 is the first project.
It's probably about 90 some odd units and it's probably an investment in the $40 million - $45 million range for that project.
Yes.
So that's part of the give and take that we had with Cambridge a number of years ago when we entitled and up-zoned our Binney street sites.
So that's just part of doing business.
In New York a lot of developers are facing the same issue how to address the housing issue.
That obviously is front and center with the mayor.
So I think a lot of -- and I think San Francisco over time workforce housing is going to be a very important issue for a lot of companies in a lot of cities.
And in terms of doing that your approach should be to do it on your own balance sheet not bring in a partner? We talked to a partner but in our case in Cambridge it was small enough that it made sense.
What our long term hold on it we don't really know.
We're not really a residentially holder for I think long term but we haven't made any short term decisions.
But I think part of being a commercial developer today in urban innovation cluster centers is the reality that residential is going to be front and center in some cases.
Okay and then finally for me you've mentioned in the past digital health as a segment of life sciences where you thought we were in the early stages of maybe some material demand growth.
And I'm just curious.
There was a lot of capital formation in that.
And I wondered if you could just remind us whether you anticipate digital health as a demand segment to be concentrated in any of your existing submarkets? Yes so far we see it more importantly in the city of San Francisco.
A number of companies who are really brand names in that area have grown up.
They occupy at the moment kind of tech office space.
I think the challenge with digital health -- and I do think it will be an important segment as time goes on is you have kind of a juxtaposition.
You have the baby boom generation needing more healthcare services but less capable when it comes to social media and electronic kind of digital if you will tools to implement that health and then you have on the other end a millennial generation highly sophisticated in the digital world but not caring a whole lot about health because when you're 15 or 20 or 25 your health there are exceptions to that -- generally is in good shape.
So this industry is still in the formative stages.
There's a lot of venture capital going into it.
But it will probably take three to five years to begin to kind of shake out and mature.
But it is here to stay and this intersection between healthcare and the digital world will clearly make an important cost impact difference over time for sure.
And it appears that we have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the program back over to Mr.
Marcus for some closing remarks.
Okay well thank you very much.
We did it in less than an hour and we'll look forward to talking to you on the first quarter call.
Thanks again everybody.
And this does conclude today's program.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at any time.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Incorporated First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference.
My name is Blesia and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note today's event is being recorded.
I will turn the call over to Rhonda Chiger.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal securities laws.
The company's actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements; additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rhonda and welcome everybody to our first quarter 2015 call.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga Peter Moglia Steve Richardson and Dan Ryan and Tom Andrews and we finally decided hold this call with investor despite what [indiscernible] said.
The story of the first quarter is strong leasing in our development pipeline and needless to say very proud of our entire teams very strong first quarter performance across the entire company.
Our long term strategic optionality planning is paying significant dividend we’re in the best sub markets with the best assets and operations and taking advantage of really timing of exceptional market demand giving us significant pricing power.
There is really a perfect confluence of significant science and technology demand for our urban innovation campuses.
It's really all about acquisition retention of talent and 10 years and now 2025 [millennial’s] will make up 75% of the work force.
So companies are very very attuned to location.
What we just said about demand the very limited supply coupled with our timing of deliveries of our embedded development pipeline which is highly leased and with very strong yields equals really a compelling internal and external growth story.
We're pleased to say that 52% of our ABR is from investment grade client tenants and when you combine that with our average lease duration of the top 20 tenants comprising 50% of our ABR more or less gives is about 9 years that gives us strong cash flow and high quality long term tenants.
Dean will talk about guidance we updated the midpoint of guidance of 522 approximating 8.5% growth plus a 3% dividend which gives an investor double digit growth for 2015.
Science &amp; Technology entities are really at the four fronts of growth and leadership in this innovation oriented economy as I said competing for the best talent and best innovation sub markets.
If we go to Life Science industry it's clear there are a number of pretty compelling factors that work including better and faster FDA approvals as we’ve discussed in fact in the first quarter there were 10 new drug approvals and 50% were ARE tenants and in fact today Biogen CEO George Scangos longtime friend and client of ours announced that Biogen was committing $2.5 billion to Alzheimer’s research in their R&amp;D budget.
More NIH funding is coming next generation big bio-techs have emerged and really have become really have become very dominant very strong venture backed companies have emerged with much longer run ways than previously.
Big Farma’s in very good shape and migrating the urban cores personalize medicine and effective targeted therapies have really come of age and increasingly the life science industry is turning to tech platforms to drive new insights and bolster business.
Commentary on yesterday's sell off a bit bio techs were broadly down especially the small and mid-cap about 3% to 5%.
But the groups been up 15% year to date 50% of the past year and it’s tripled over the last three years so the sector remains a market leader no specific catalyst and trading volumes were certainly not alarming.
On the tech sectors the tech sector PE is about 5% lower than the S&amp;P market the favorable earnings growth certainly is a part of the tech sector favorable long term secular trends driving growth including corporate networking security which is in everybody's mind smart mobility explosive e-commerce growth adoption of cloud computing and importantly digital health to name a few.
On the internal growth operations in the leasing side we had a very strong quarter of about a 1 million square feet leased with strong rental rate increases of this square footage leased 40% was from Greater Boston and 31% from San Diego and 84% of the cash increase was from Greater Boston leases.
Occupancy Dean will comment on will likely stay flatter or decline just a bit in the next quarter due to two move outs Dean will mention and we had very good same property NOI growth.
On the external growth side it's clear to say we have more opportunities than we can undertake our current pipeline 60 Binney 250 000 square foot we really are now down to two prospective tenants and expect I think leasing progress in the second quarter hopefully above pro forma.
A 100 Binney in the near term pipeline we are about to secure an anchor lease we've signed at an LOI for more than half the building and we expect to kick off construction here in the not too distant future.
It's also important to remember our current future development opportunities plus additional SAR that may been embedded there is worth noting approximately 3.2 million square feet Seattle with about 452 000 square feet San Francisco 1.1 million square feet San Diego about 1 million square feet Greater Boston about 150 000 and New York City about 420 000.
I will leave Dean's comments on balance sheet and guidance and then finally on the dividend we're clearly going to increase cash flows that will be shared with the shareholders so look for continued dividend increases through the year based on Board decisions and I will turn it over to Peter.
Okay good afternoon.
I think I will make some comments on the investment market and cap rates.
The national investment market has continued to be health through the first quarter of 2015 illustrated by a further compression in cap rate of 5 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2014 for a national average of 6.11% according to the PWC Korpacz Investor Survey.
Alexandria's strategy to focus our allocation of capital into the innovation gateway coastal cities of Boston Cambridge New York City San Diego San Francisco and Seattle continues to drive our NAV higher as the year-over-year cap rate compression in those markets was two times that the year-over-year national average at 34 basis points.
According to the PWC survey the office sector in particular is expected to lead the industry in terms of value growth followed by warehouse lodging apartments and retail which is mostly attributed to a continuation of improving fundamentals and the focus on office investment from foreign capital and pension funds.
There was one notable lifetime stay to report in the first quarter which occurred in the Seattle region where 307 Westlake and South Lake Union traded for a 5.6% cap rate and a record price per square foot of $859.
This acted very similar to another lab office asset at South Lake Union 401 Terry which traded in the first quarter of 2014 at a 6% cap rate and $755 per square foot.
Given that the assets are within a couple of blocks from each other and occupied by similar non-credit tenant research institutions on long-term leases these trades are a good barometer for the cap rate compression that lab office assets have experienced over the past year.
During Investor Day we noted an office sales comp at 25/1st Street in Cambridge Massachusetts also known as the Davenport building.
That sales comp originally speculated at 4% has been confirmed at 4.55% and a price per square foot of $637.
A follow on to that was the closing of One Memorial Drive at a 4.9% cap rate and a healthy $1 096 per square foot.
Also noted during Investor Day but repeated here for those who may have missed it was a comp that gave some long awaited price discovery in South San Francisco.
701 Gateway an office building which is in close proximity to a number of Alexandria assets traded [indiscernible] at a 5.5% cap rate.
There are a number of projects being keyed up there that were affirmed by this comp.
Adjacent to Mission Bay tech office building 444 De Haro Place in Potrero Hill traded to Ares Management for a 4.5% cap rate and $669 per square foot.
This asset had just been stabilized with major leases executed in 2014 for 75% of the building.
To wrap up my comments I want to acknowledge that we continue to monitor the movements in interest rates and still believe that although recent days show that leading indicators appear to have turned higher on a month-to-month basis consensus investor sentiment remains negative on the rate outlook but appears to be validated 10 year treasury yields remaining near lows and the fed's lower rate cap forecast during the last FOMC meeting.
With that I will hand it over to Steve.
Thank you Peter and good afternoon everybody.
The San Francisco to Stanford clusters theme is really one of broad and deep demand.
As life science requirements total in excess of 2 million square feet which is up significantly from six months ago and another 8 million plus square feet of tech office demand of which 2.7 million square feet is in the City of San Francisco alone.
Alexandria's leadership position in developing creative and collaborative urban campuses is creating tremendous interest in the market we are fully engaged with deep and trusted see sweet relationships across both the science and technology industries with at least five users seeking unique big blocks in access of 200 000 square feet.
A deeper dive in the market shows the robust leasing activity in the mid-range side as well as past quarter.
Uber leased 300 000 square feet at 555 and 685 market streets.
Lending club is doubled its footprint to 252 000 square feet with a lease of 112 000 square feet comprise of eight floors at 595 market.
[Advent] software renewed its lease of 129 000 square feet at 600 Townsend Street just down the road from our 510 Townsend project.
[indiscernible] leased 120 000 square feet at 221 Main Street.
We Works has leases pending for 91 000 square feet at 995 Market and 1161 Mission while [Mix Pana] leased 65 000 square feet at 405 Howard and Omnicons leased another 45 000 square feet at 600 California.
With all this activity we anticipate lease rate for new product will be pushing beyond mid 50 triple net and into the mid 60 triple net given the mix of high demand and limited availability more particularly we have no availability in Mission Bay and just 3.4% in the SoMa district down 300 bips from 6.4% during 1Q 2014.
At 510 Townsend Street we are on track for securing entitlement during late summer of this year and have signed a long term full building lease with a disruptive technology company Stride.
We expect to break ground later in the year and we'll provide further color in the coming months and timing and delivery.
Mission Bay as we've noted is very health with continued in bound interest as well as existing tenant seeking expansion with Warriors breaking ground later this year and our JV with Uber on track this is become truly a unique Urban destination.
Our regional teams 30 years of experience and relationships across the political governmental and brokerage realms as well as the science and tech industries has positioned the company for continued out performance in the San Francisco market.
Moving a bit South we're seeing a quite bit of resurgence of activity in South San Francisco which is 1% vacancy we have seen our Amgen Onyx campus just brought some market for sub lease but we do have in place long term leases at the campus with an investment grade tenant there.
Lease rates are now pushing well into the mid-40s and higher for existing product.
And finally the 98.5% regional occupancy reported in the sub has already been resolved so we're back in 100% and the mark-to-market of rent places leases provides for further growth with approximately 10% cash and 15.2% on a GAAP basis.
With that let me hand it over to Tom.
Thanks good afternoon everyone its Tom Andrews I’ll be talking about the greater Boston region.
So the greater Boston life science market continues to enjoy very favorable supply demand characteristics in the highly desired East Cambridge and Kendall Square sub-market where areas that’s a concentrated.
Class A lab vacancy is around 3% and office vacancy is around 5% and overall Cambridge vacancy is sub 10% for all categories of both office and labs space.
We're tracking about 2 million square feet of lab demand and nearly 2.5 million square feet of office demand focus in Cambridge and that’s in an approximately 18 million square foot total market.
Demand is coming from multi-national both life science and technology companies entering the market to newly public clinical stage drug companies to well capitalize venture backed firms all are desiring a close proximity to MIT and the amenity rich Kendall square neighborhood surrounding the campus.
Overall areas occupancy in the region kicked up about 140 basis points to 98.9% occupancy in our 4.3 million square foot operating portfolio.
As one would expect the tightness in the market has resulted in the substantial increase in asking rents for both laboratory and office.
Class A lab asking rents have moved from the mid to high 50 triple net into and through the 60s and we're now seeing some offers in the 70s triple net.
In the office market current asking rents for Class A Kendall square office space solidly in 50s and 60s on a triple net basis which equates to 70s and 80s on a gross basis.
This has created a sense of urgency among tenants of all size and when possible we’re using this market dynamic to lock down early renewals as with the 83 500 square foot office renewal with MIT at 600 Tech square were we are able achieve a near doubling of the net rent compared with expiring rent.
We were pleased to welcome Santa Fe to our Alexandria center at Kendall square project as they have committed to a long term lease of 251 000 square feet at 50 Binney Street.
We are now in active negotiation as Joel mentioned with multiple users for the approximately 270 000 square foot 60 Binney portion of that project which is now under construction.
And also as Joel mentioned we've singed a letter of intent for about half of the approximately 417 000 square foot near term development project at 100 Binney Street which is the only shovel ready commercial development site in Kendall square at this time.
So based on this we're expect to be able to announce one or more additional large lease deals in the coming quarters at Alexandria Center at Kendall Square.
In March also at ACKS we delivered 388 000 square foot 75/125 Binney project which is 99% leased to ARIAD pharmaceutical.
ARIAD as we've been tracking over past several quarters is entertaining a handful possible subway scenarios for up to about 40% of that project they continue to work on design of their own tenant improvements and we expect them to occupy a significant portion of their space early in 2016.
At Longwood Center in Boston which is our joint venture development project in which we are a 27.5% owner we are in negotiations with prospects representing over a 103 000 square feet of additional space and if completed these leases would bring us to 63% occupancy in this 413 000 square project with three full floors remaining to lease in the nine story building.
We are encouraged here by a modestly higher level of tenant activity in the sub market in recent months.
And finally I would note that we are expecting an on time delivery in early May of the fully leased 112 000 square foot redevelopment project at 225 2nd Avenue in Waltham.
And I am going next to Dean.
Thanks Tom Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everybody.
I just want to cover three important topics first off our continued strong performance in the first quarter second our disciplined allocation of capital in excess to diverse sources of capital and lastly and important NAV related matter.
As you know our strategic focus on unique collaborative science and technology campuses and urban innovations clusters drove very strong results in the first quarter.
We've reported FFO per share of $1.28 up 9.4% over the first quarter of '14 up $0.05 or 4.1% over the fourth quarter of '14.
Our FFO per share results exceeded consensus by $0.02.
We refined our range for FFO per share guidance for 2015 from $0.20 to $0.10 and increased the midpoint of our guidance $0.02 to $5.22 directly reflecting continuing strong rental rate increases on lease renewals and re-leasing of space.
As Tom had mentioned we executed several leases in Greater Boston with significant cash and GAAP rental rate increases driven significantly by a lease for about 84 000 rentable square feet at Technology Square with a cash rent increasing from $25 triple net to approximately $53 triple net.
A significant portion of this rental rate increase was anticipated in our guidance and we achieved a higher increase than anticipated which drove a portion of the increase in our guidance for 2015.
We are well positioned with a high quality asset base located in key coastal gateway cities with high barriers to entry extremely limited supply of existing cloud [based] space and very limited future development product in comparison to the significant demand.
Our overall mark-to-market print in place leases today in San Francisco and Greater Boston generally range from 10% to 20% with opportunities for significant steps on a select number of early renewals.
As noted at Investor Day in December of '14 we had two single tenant properties with expirations in the second quarter of '15 one lease for about a 128 000 rentable square feet at 19 Presidential Way in Woburn Massachusetts expires on May 31st of 2015 at a rental rate of $25 per square foot triple net.
We have another lease for about 82 000 square feet at 2525 NC Highway 54 in Durham North Carolina that expired on April 24th at a rate of $13 per square foot triple net and we are currently marketing both spaces for lease.
As Joel hinted this will result in a temporary decline in occupancy by about one half of 1% in the second quarter as these expirations are offset by lease up of some vacancy in our asset base and remain on track to hit our target range of occupancy from 96.9% to 97.4% by year end.
Our balance sheet is in excellent shape and I will review our capital plan in a moment we remain very disciplined in our development activities with highly leased development projects and non-income producing assets are now 12%.
We continue to execute on our long-term strategy to deliver growth in FFO per share and NAV while also improving our net debt to adjusted EBITDA so less than seven times by year end.
Leverage as of quarter end was 7.5 times and represents the high point for leverage for 2015 and will decline in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
Moving on to our disciplined allocation of capital and access to diverse sources of capital 86% of our capital for 2015 is focused on highly dynamic and collaborative campuses in key coastal science and technology gateway cities that inspire innovation including Cambridge Mission Bay and SoMa Manhattan and [Toir Pines] in the ETC market.
Our capital plan for the year at the midpoint of our guidance includes approximately 1.15 billion with approximately 490 million or 43% expected from net cash provided by operating activities after dividends incremental debt and a non-cash acquisition in the form of a tax deferred structure.
The remaining midpoint of 655 million or 57% of the 1.15 billion is detailed on page four of our supplemental package.
We have identified asset sales aggregating 475 million and are working on the remainder of our capital plan of approximately $180 million.
We expect to expand our access to capital with the sale of an interest in 225 Binney Street to a top tier JV partner by near year end.
We have completed or we have three dispositions for the year keyed up including two single tenant Class A buildings one in South San Francisco and one in Cambridge and the residential project located in Cambridge.
All three dispositions are at various stages of negotiations and are expected to close this year accordingly our comments on this transaction will be limited until each sale is completed.
At the midpoint of our guidance these three sales are projected to generate roughly 370 million in proceeds based upon 16 million of cash NOI and this includes 80% of the NOI for 225 Binney Street at the midpoint of our target JV interest.
The proceeds from the sales are waited toward the later part of 2015 as for the remainder of the capital roughly 180 million that we're solving for over the next quarter or so approximately 40% will be sourced from real estate sales to be identified over the next several months and the remainder of approximately 100 million maybe source through additional asset sales or through very limited use of our ATN program.
We prefer not speculate on potential sales that have not been identified.
But we will continue to focus on sales of both operating properties and land.
More importantly we will continue to provide disclosers of specific sales when they’re identified and classified its held-for-sale.
Briefly our ATN program has about 150 million remaining and is scheduled to expire in early June.
We do expect to re-file our program later this year and do not expect to utilize any significant amount under this new ATN program.
This is the perfect time to remind everybody about our desire to utilize various options to fund our highly leased value creation development projects.
In a manner that will allow us to deliver long term value to our shareholders while remaining prudent and disciplined with the issuance of common equity.
Assets sales are at an important component of sources of capital and we will continue to focus in growth and FFO per share and net asset value while we fund our highly leased value creation projects.
Briefly on debt transactions for the rest of the year really consist of the following partial repayment and extension of the maturity of our 375 million 2016 unsecured term loan.
We expect to expand the maturity date to 2021.
Our goal remains the same we will continue to reduce our outstanding term loan balances over the next few years.
This partial repayment and extension of the maturity date provides flexibility for our capital structure while extending our weighted average maturity.
After extending the 2016 maturity date we will focus on reducing the outstanding balance under our 2019 unsecured term loan.
As noted in prior calls we do expect to issue unsecured bonds this year before any meaningful increases in all in pricing settles in.
We believe all in pricing today for 10 year bond to be in the range of 3.5% to 3.7%.
We are also considering a secured construction loan for 50 60 Binney Street in Cambridge which will cover a portion of our funding for this project later this year.
We're also considering a secured construction loan for JV development at 1455/1515 Third Street in Mission Bay and this loan will cover funding needs that really began in 2017 after both the company and our partner fund initial construction cost.
Lastly on important NAV matter on March 24 we delivered 99% of 75 125 Binney Street to ARIAD Pharmaceuticals.
From an NAV perspective most models likely value this 99% lease property above our investment to date.
But likely at a discount until placed in the service cash rents commence immediately upon delivery however about a year and half of free rent on a 15 year lease really we’re spread over the first two years of the lease.
As a result about 80% of the annual rents of about $30 million represent straight liner rent.
Accordingly 80% of the value of this property will likely be eliminated in models that back out straight line rent in order to drive value based on the capitalization rate on in place cash NOI.
Full cash rents of $76.50 began on April of 2017.
So we encourage investor to carefully review the full valuation of this class A property and there NAV models as they update them.
Lastly in closing the detail assumptions underlying our updated guidance for 2015 are included on page 3 and 4 of our supplemental package which really are in a unique position with strong demand for class A assets and key coastal gateway cities our capital plan is grown for value creation opportunities primarily in SoMa and in Mission Bay while we strategically fund our growth through additional asset sales.
We also are continuing to focus on our strategy of generating growth and FFO per share and net asset value.
We believe we have the right assets and the right location and the best to roster of client tenants and remain focused on continuing to build our best in class franchisee.
With that I’ll turn it back to Joel.
Thank you Dean.
Operator let's open it up for Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instruction] We'll go first to Smedes Rose of Citigroup.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little more about your rational for selling a majority interest to 225 Binney why that asset and maybe your thoughts around that? So I think as you look through capital planning being very fluid as you look at trends in the market place as well as different sources of capital.
Given our needs to fund about 1.1 billion roughly 1.2 billion of needs this year.
We've laid out a capital strategy I think that has been somewhat dynamic but also prudent and discipline in tapping of variety of sources of capital to blend our cost of capital.
And I think in prior calls we've mentioned as well as in the general market you get a good sense by pricing for high quality real estate is attractive capital for the company.
And as a result JV interest in a project by 225 Binney fully leased modest steps in rents overtime will allow us to really tap the value we created on this project which keep in mind was initially delivered a probably [7.5 to 7.7] initial yield when we completed this project.
And if we can tap a market cap rate today which we'll described when we complete the transaction will be able to monetize some of the value creation and reinvest that capital under value creation projects.
So hopefully that helps.
And then I just wanted to ask I know you noted that Amgen space has just been brought back to market in South San Francisco.
What's your thought I guess on demand for that and the kind of maybe the pace of sub leasing it? Again it's really resurgence of activity in the South San Francisco market you've got just 1% direct vacancy.
So as we've got a number of second cohort companies that are maturing there I think the possibility of sub leasing looks brighter than perhaps it did on their other projects along [indiscernible] Cove.
So we're in constant contact with the Amgen team as we have been for years and we'll see how it unfolds but I'm encourage.
We'll go next to Nick Yulico of UBS.
Couple of questions one on the sales the residential site this plan in Cambridge.
Can you remind us what the cost was -- is to build that project? We're probably in somewhere just around low $40 million probably at the point we will be completed with the project.
So you expect to sell that some sort of premium to that I imagine? I think the way to think about the residential site is that it was a component of a large entitlement effort a component of our overall Binney Street development.
There is a component they have lower price units within in the residential development.
So I'd say that we expect to breakeven to a slight gain on the transaction.
But keep in mind that it's a component of the larger development and since we don’t want to long term holders of the Red B side we’ve chosen to sell and recycle that capital.
The numbers of buyers for it really is astounding in the several dozen.
Okay so if we're tiring to figure out to put any possible cap rate on the stable cells if we allocate somewhere above cost or around that for the residential that would be good enough math.
Yes that gives you a very good sense for an estimate on the cap rate on average for the two transactions that we're talking about -- looking at selling and as we mentioned we'll provide more color when we complete each of the sales.
This is Peter Moglia I just wanted to add one thing that the rents is being touched on are significantly impacted by an affordable component which was the part of the entitlement agreement we have with the city of Cambridge.
So if you apply the market rent to the whole thing and then apply a cap rate to that you might be off and so I think roughly about 40% of it is limited to affordable.
But we fully expect a market cap rate on that NOI.
And then just turning to these possible acquisitions of additional sites in Mission Bay and SoMa.
Can you just talk about it sounds like one of the deals in OP unit deal and then also one of these might be life science office projects possibly yields and whether these would you think with fall under Prop M allocations? Thanks.
Yes I think we'll not -- if you don't mind comment on that anymore we’ll comment in detail and obviously our disclosure will have by chapter reverse on that when the time comes but I think given pending transactions better to say nothing.
I think Steve could give you 60 second primer on Prop M though.
Yes it's Steve Richardson.
Prop M right now there is supply in the pipeline we anticipate that winding down with two large projects that will probably garner allocation and then certainly 5 000 to 10 000 in the summary as we've discussed.
So really seeing the impact of Prop M in the later half from 2016 and then beyond into 2017.
Okay guys thanks.
Just when you talk about this non cash acquisition as a source of capital is that an OP unit deal or is that something else? In essence yes.
Okay thank you.
We'll go next to Jim Sullivan of Cowen Group.
Thank you.
Back in December at the Analyst Day you had noted that you're leasing steps expectations for the year we're in the 14% to 17% range on the GAAP basis.
First quarter was obviously well ahead of that.
In that result I think you would attributed in part to the locations where the leases were made you talked about Cambridge of course in California and I just wonder if you could kind of update us on the -- on your expectations for the steps of the year is that still that same range 14 to 17 number one; and number two kind of is part of that I wondered if you could kind of review your sense of the mark-to-market in the portfolio outside of Cambridge and San Francisco San Diego.
So Jim it's a Dean Shigenaga I think when you think of our leasing steps this quarter almost 31% on a GAAP basis and our range of guidance of 14 to 17.
I would first highlight at the challenge with updating the range in an extremely healthy environment that we're in today with tremendous demand and very limited supply is it’s hard to forecast the upside that is off low and I'd also add that this is only the first quarter that represents only 25% of our activity for the year it was home run quarter.
I'd imagine that on average the rest of the activity is going to be closure line with our guidance with the [indiscernible] that we're in a very strong market that presents some upside on the leasing activity that we've execute on going forward and I forgot what the second questions was.
On that mark-to-market and other regions? Jim its Steve Richardson so if you look at Cambridge roughly at 59 cash roughly 10% in San Francisco San Diego we've got about nearly 5% in [Tori Pines] maybe 2% overall.
Given some limited rollover there and then in New York we're at about 2% as well.
We obviously have a lot of recent deliveries there so just hasn’t matured to a point.
And then Maryland we're in positive territory as well on a cash basis 2% 3.3% on a GAAP basis.
Then in Seattle looking solid on GAAP basis 10.6% and 2.0% on a cash basis RTP similarly 12% on a GAAP basis and 7.8% on a cash basis.
So across the board we're certainly positive mark-to-market and I think certainly seeing Maryland and RTP recovers stabilize and now moving the positive territory is an encouraging sign Is it kind of fair to conclude Dean and Steve based on all of those comments that as we look over the expiration schedule looking out not just for '15 but for '16 and '17 given that the average base rent on expiring and I’m talking in total here is fairly low either in the high 20s or below 30s that very strong spread to your --not just to 2015 event or likelihood but I'm sure you would have a good deal of confidence in succeed in '17 as well at this point admitting that this is very dynamic market.
Yeah I would say first of Jim it is very dynamic market.
I'd say it's hard to incorporate the speed of change in rental rates in a summary that we just -- Steve just rattles out.
But if you look out this type of environment very strong market should provide ongoing very solid leasing statistics going into '16 and '17.
Great thank.
We'll go next to Jamie Feldman of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Can you talk a little bit more about the actual requirements to get the permits and approvals done for the leases you've signed or I guess to start construction at 510 Townsend and 10300 Campus Point and 400 Dexter [Nick] in press release you said and with the press you signed the leases and then you have some huddles you need to get over to expect construction? Yes so Steve will talk about the 5 000 to 10 000 and I’ll ask Dean will talk about to campus point and then I'll talk about Seattle.
Jamie its Steve.
We've started the internal process a number of quarters ago you've submittals environmental impact review and then traffic studies those three pieces have essentially been completed or nearing completion.
We do have a target in August now with the planning commission and expect that we're right in the middle with the fair way with the project itself no variances all of the underline traffic and EIR conclusions are consistent so we would expect putting seamless move here to August and then we're receiving the entitlements at that time.
And break ground Steve Break ground shortly thereafter in the fall.
Jim its Dean.
So the way Steve describes is exactly where we are in San Diego on our campus point project.
We have cleared all the hurdles we're now up to public notice and we expect to wrap all that up in July.
So we're targeting a final approval on July 4th.
But everything seems to be going smoothly and ground breaking at the same time.
This is Peter Moglia at 400 Dexter our [indiscernible] as it's refer to in Seattle it’s expected within the next 60 days or so.
But we're going full force on design and the city is very very supportive of this effort because they wanted to capture Geno Therapy that's in the city proper.
So we've got full support and we're running with it.
And expected break ground potentially in the next quarter.
Okay and did you say for 5 000 to 10 000 you have Prop M approval or you need it? No that will happen with the planning commission in the summer Jamie August.
Okay alright and then I know you didn't provide us total dollar amount for 50 to 60 Binney but can you give us may a ballpark of how to think about the total cost to their project? Jamie its Dean here.
You probably -- you’re actually not too far from our recent project at 75/125 Binney year and I say this cautiously let me just carry out this because the challenge with estimates for construction right now is what we do know is we have a lease with Santa Fe we are working through terms to lease 60 Binney on the exact split between our investment and the tenant's investment plus the design.
Some design aspects will determine the ultimate cost but you're probably in that figure that's approaching all in about a $1000 a foot.
You're saying that the combination of your spend and their spend or that's just your spend? That's our investment into the project.
All in that's fully loaded all in.
And then rents you could imagine would be of the absolute upper end and then you can imagine what the yields would be.
So nice spread to what cap rates are today.
And then my final question is more strategic so it sounds like you pulled back on your disposition guidance.
You increased your acquisition but you spent a lot of time talking about how great the pricing is for sales.
How do we think about that? How did you think about that rather than maybe you think you'd want to do the opposite which is sell more and buy less given where we're at cycle.
Actually Jamie -- sorry to point that out but that’s actually what we are doing.
We're selling we increased our disposition program this quarter so we have 200 million of incremental dispositions on a cash basis.
I thought you took down your sale guidance.
No? No dispositions increased.
Net 200 on a cash basis over just the acquisitions.
So we have about a net 65 million of cash increase on an outlay for acquisitions and about 265 million at the mid-point increase in dispositions which nets about it.
Alright my confusion I'm sorry about that.
Thank you.
Thanks Jamie.
We'll go next to Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
Good afternoon.
I was wondering on Tech Square that rent you mentioned was $25 was that a really old lease and are there other leases at Tech Square that are also well below market? That lease was a 2010 so just coming out of the recession.
It was a renewal of an existing MIT lease at that market and it was a gross rent.
And so that shows how much the office market in particular has moved since that trough in 2010.
And there are not a lot of other well below market leases at Tech Square a lot of other well below market leases at Tech Square that a pretty minimal.
Sheila it's Dean just to clarify the original lease rate that rolled was gross the numbers I gave you converted the gross rate to a net rate so get apples to apples it is a net lease today.
Okay great and then on the auction property in the New York that seems to be moving more quickly now.
I know the last time you negotiated the ground lease 429 Street it’s quite a while is this something that you think is years away or could this be near term and maybe you just comment on the potential to ups still in there? Sheila it's Joel the city announced actually in the press release -- announcing the two venture fronts that they're essentially helping fund to the tune of about $150 plus million dollars and in that press release so couple of weeks ago.
They stated the need for additional lab space in New York because the demand there is emerging and they cited the Alexandria center for life science is having the additional north parcel on which we have a long-term option as one immediate relief valve at least in the foreseeable future and the city has encouraged us we’ve had several direct meetings they’ve even encourage us to think about up zoning it.
And so we will be working with them hands on and right now our thinking is we could break ground potentially by the end of next year with the delivery on 2018.
So that's very realistic.
The ground lease is negotiated this is just an add-on for the development The terms of this ground would be similar? It would be an amendment to the existing for the development of the sights.
So it's actually fairly easy to do compare to a brand new ground lease that we had never negotiated back in 26 and 27 when we're doing And with pricing even though amendment to this ground lease pricing could vary? Would you say pricing meaning? Meaning the rent that you are going to pay on this auction parcel.
Well that's one of the key issues because obviously we want to make it as favorable to the tenants because that's a pass through to induce them to make New York city their headquarters and city is aligned with that view.
So that's not so much of area cost that's tenant cost and it's in the best interest of the city to make that affordable.
Okay great thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Carroll of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey Jeol can you give us some color on the acquisition guidance what's the breakup between stabilized assets and then you got increasing assets? That was kind of mentioned in the press release.
Well that’s Dean.
I think you should think of most of them other than what we've completed which you already have the stuff that's pending you should think of as value added opportunities.
There maybe a little bit of in-place purchasing cash flows but for now just assume it's nominal.
Yes I think as we've said last time the MIT transaction involving at the Memorial drive property really was kind of an opportunistic situation we didn't really plan on they brought it to market.
They bundled that with the -- not bundled it but encouraged us to bid on it together with our repurchase at Tech Square.
So it's not something we had really planned on and generally we're aren’t in the market to buy stabilized acquisitions in general.
So the value and acquisition that you're looking at then how much capital can you invested in those properties going forward? [indiscernible] 15 bucket.
Lot of that depends on what the ability to build on based on local permitting et cetera.
But I think we've laid that out in the pipeline chart on Page 30 if you go to that that's the best way to visualize and think about each of the project the ones that currently in development and the one that are really near term I think if you look at the square footage there that's the easiest way to kind of think about it.
Michael I'd say it doesn't impact and your question maybe longer term related but it doesn't really impact our construction spending for this year as you noticed that our guidance remains very consistent with last quarter.
Okay great thank you.
We'll go next to Rich Anderson of Mizuho Securities.
So I just have maybe potentially stupid question to start is there anything about to 25 Binney have a lesser [indiscernible] as part of the broader Alexandria standards is there smaller audience because of that do you think? No I don't think so at all actually was probably broader audience as you know that area of Binney is a very -- has great adjacency to Biogen’s main cluster campus there that's why they choose that site down at 225 Binney if the peer office leases the headquarters it's a long term lease it's a credit tenant.
The tenant that has a market capital of almost $100 million doing great things.
It's actually an ideal asset.
Okay just wondering because within broader center there.
Anyway moving on the mention of the two leases one that has vacated and the one that’s going to on May 31st is there anything in guidance with that release at this point? Modest assumptions we do expect some down time Rich to re-tenant these.
Could go either single or multi-tenant we do have a number of showing.
But nothing to reported at the moment.
I was just going to say where it is 25 from Massachusetts and 13 for North Carolina compare to market right now in your opinion? This is Tom Andrews.
That property is [indiscernible] on the Route 128 inter belt way North of Austin.
We think that 25 is right pretty much were market is so we'd expect to be and the building it was acquired as a sale leaseback10 years ago and the building was design to be a multi-tenant building and we think we'll have no trouble at all multi-tenanting it and leasing it up overtime.
It will take some to lease up.
But we've got good activity with multi-tenant prospect and a potential single tenant prospect.
But we think it that’s market the roll -- the expiring rents are probably close to market.
And in the North Carolina property it was a property we bought a quite a number of years ago the EPA was in the property they’ve moved on and rents there are probably are in the low 20s on a triple net basis.
So we see some good opportunity for a roll up there.
Dean you mentioned the use of the ATM by my calculation you're trading right now below consensus any comment on that with relates to strategy to deploy the ATM? I think we didn’t actually say we were going to deploy the ATM per say we have not used -- I think the last time we use that was back in 2012-2013 we haven’t used it since 150 more and less remains that expire Dean said in June we're going to refresh that so we always have it available.
But I don’t think we have committed the use of it at this point.
My comment is focus on primarily on sourcing sales but we wanted to make it clear that we would re-file the program just to have it available for other future.
And last question I don’t if you have this on your figure tips.
But do you have a number of percentages of portfolio that’s back by VC funding? If you look at -- we have a high chart at page 21 of the supplement and in there you'll see private bio technology had about 6.8%.
By ABR that’s a good kind of estimate.
Okay so that’s in the range of what the VC number would be.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Kevin Tyler of Green Street Advisors.
Just one quick one from me high level question.
How do you think about lab space fundamentals today? Rents tenant demand et cetera versus the last peak in the 90s.
I think it's fairly fundamentally different.
If you go back to my opening comments I think that kind of says it all what we saw in the ‘99 2000 2001 era really was more a market driven peak where companies and valuation kind of emerged.
But I think business model and drug approval and just sheer focus on drugs coming to market was not the same.
This is truly I think an unusual renaissance that I think you've got a lot of legs and will continue to last for quite a long time.
I think the better and faster FDA is fundamentally changed since then I think the new generation of bio-tech led by companies like Biogen Cell Gene et cetera they didn’t really exist then you just had Amgen and Genentech more or less.
Big farma was really hiding out in it’s -- in really campuses that were more suburban and really acquired and build over many years really with a different business model in mind.
And then the kind of the focus on targeted therapy it didn’t exit.
So I think it's a pretty -- this is kind of renaissance period I don’t think it's -- sure there is a lot of positivity on the bio tech side with the market valuations.
But fundamentally the companies are incredibly way better position.
We'll go to Dave Rodgers of Baird.
Just a couple ones from me.
Joel couple of questions for you on the disposition pipeline or how you're thinking about it.
I guess the first would be can you comment on India? The decision to sell the asset and impressed this quarter and anything that speaks to your long terms plans in India or Asia? And the second would be with regard to using joint venture capital in Cambridge any other markets that you’d consider really bringing in joint venture partners and how did you think about that as you went down the road? So quick answers on India we have several assets that are really unproductive assets land or land and some kind of structure that we -- this is pre Lehman we had intended to essentially develop and bring the market.
Those plans changed before of allocation of capital issues and so the assets that we sold were kind of a shell of a building in a very high quality location in Hyderabad.
And we have not achieved permits for the MOB and so we felt by selling it to a MOB operator who'd actually operate it and be able to secure those approvals would be the best course and so that’s why we entered into that transaction.
And we're happy to have monetized the non-income producing asset.
On the other question about selection of locations our thinking there is driven by a whole bunch of considerations that Dean kind of covered in his remarks but I would say that the ability to extract value from assets that we have created and really developed high value given today's cap rate environment seem to be best targets of opportunity.
The Forbes assets -- 500 Forbes is an ideal one because of where it's situated cap rate situation and the 225 Binney is one that also seems kind of ideal again given that it's at the end of the Binney Street corridor.
It's a pure office building and it's got all the attributes that really make a joint venture partner very excited about participating in that ownership with us.
So those were kind of the driving forces I think behind them.
And currently there are no other questions in the queue I'll turn the conference back to management for any additional remarks.
Thank you everybody we appreciate your time and we're just about one hour on and we look forward to talking to you on the second quarter call.
Thanks again.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities’ Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Vicky and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Paula Schwartz.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal securities laws.
The company's actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements; additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
With that I'll turn it over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead Joel.
Thank you very much.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga CFO; Steve Richardson Chief Operating Officer; Peter Moglia Chief Investment Officer; Tom Andrews Executive Vice President and Dan Ryan Executive Vice President so welcome to our second quarter call.
I think the second quarter has really two key storylines for our best in class office REIT the first one is price discovery for ARE and its assets and I believe deserving of cap rate compression and multiple expansion and secondly would be the sheer historic leasing volume in the second quarter testament really to the locations quality of assets and really the leasing team.
Dean will go through the balance sheet and guidance in detail but we did increase guidance to 524 so when you take our projected FFO for the year plus the dividend we're looking at a low double digit total return.
On the science and technology front the industries themselves remain at the forefront of growth and leadership in our innovation economy seeking to attract the best talent and really the best urban submarkets where now as you can from the supplement ARE now derives 75% of our annual base ramp from class A assets and AAA locations and we're very proud of this really crowning achievement and coupling that with investment grade client tenants of about 53% of our ABR we feel that we really accomplished something pretty special.
The demand for our urban campuses have really never been stronger.
On the FDA front again increases in the FDA approvals as I've said before have been driven by better understanding of the disease biology and very much improved regulatory process year to date for 2015 there've been 20 approvals and ARE client tenants have garnered 60% of those again we’re very proud of that.
I think one big note on the policy side is that it has some representatives past the 21st Century Cures Act on July 10th now moving to the senate for discussion more likely in September.
A couple of key provisions during that need for increased funding to the NIH and the FBA which if the bill passes will be very welcomed; improved investment in certain areas of critical science the bill aims at removing barriers to increased research collaboration; it has certain guidance incorporating patient perspective into the drug development process; it also has guidance to ensure the patients can be treated based on their unique characteristics of their disease so called personalized precision medicine.
There is a section on modernized and clinical trials which will be very important greater use of patient generated registries and biomarkers the development of certain new medical apps and potential orphan drug exclusivity for rare diseases.
On the technology side machine learning and Big Data have contributed greatly to the intersection of tech and life science.
We see continued strong growth in the sharing economy and we’re also pleased to mention that our new client tenants strike our tenant at 510 Townsend raised the new round of financing value in the Company at approximately $5 billion led by Visa American Express and Sequoia.
And they also announced a new partnership with Visa.
Moving on to the sale of the 70% interest in our 225 Binney.
We’re very pleased with a highly respectable cash cap rate.
We believe that this was very attractive to a group of high quality institutional investors it also monetize the core asset.
And really evidence significant value creation.
We hope it’s meaningful on an NAV data point and it’s certainly importantly raises significant equity type capital to help fund our development pipeline.
The yield is reflective of what long term investors are willing to accept.
And we won’t speculate about the upside in 13 years but we believe it’s significant.
The building as many of you know is 305 000 square feet in the heart of Kendall Square developed by our Greater Boston team in the Alexandria Center Kendall Square base quarter development and really the strongest life science submarket in the country a lead goal building 100% triple net leased Biogen through September 30 2028 with two five year renewal options at 95% of our market ground.
There was a significant pool of interest at buyers and likely we will continue to look at monetizing select assets and Dean will talk to you about sources and uses in a bit.
We’re very pleased that a sophisticated investor like TIAA paid a low cap rate reflecting the high value they placed on the real estate and the residual value.
Notwithstanding there is no chance to increase rents for the next 13 years.
I think that recognize the value in Cambridge are more a function of extreme supply constraints high barriers to entry and limited availability for space for the universe of life science pharma-biotech and technology from separately want to and need to be Kendall Square versus simply a snapshot at current rent.
I think our partner recognized there is minimal releasing risk in a submarket with low single digit vacancy rates and the demand that is currently substantially in excess inventory.
Ironically there is obviously significant upside if Biogen were to vacate early and rents were to go to market.
I am sure they took comfort in the dramatic leasing velocity in the Binney Street corridor and our transactions with Sanofi Genzyme Bristol-Myers Squibb and the long term value of the Binney Street assets and the greater Kendall Square project that we’ve done.
Also think that capital values in Kendall Square clearly continued increase.
I think our partner’s confidence and the long term value of 225 Binney validates our laser focus on developing and knowing irreplaceable mission critical assets in the top innovation clusters.
The end users are attracted to these markets are really highly discriminating in their location decisions.
As you know their need to hire and retain top talent who want to work in these dynamic submarkets their need to collaborate on product development scientific research drives their real estate decisions unlike financial and professional service firms.
For example who view real estate more as a commodity the life science and tech companies view their real estate location decisions integral to their operations that makes them somewhat more rent insensitive although they’re clearly very focused and very diligent and willing to pay to be in AAA buildings in top locations with superb owner operators.
And we’re in the enviable position of owning that real estate that will experience this exceptional and sustained capital appreciation and rent growth.
Moving on to the internal growth.
We hit an all time high for any quarter over 1.9 million square feet of lease; really historic and a great achievement for the Company; 29% came from our Greater Boston primarily Cambridge operations; 26% from San Diego and 22% from the San Francisco Bay region.
Occupancy was down slightly due to two roles Dean talked about; again same solid same property NOI growth for the quarter and strong margins.
On the external growth side we have an opportunity Dan and his team to acquire 10290 Campus Point Drive immediately adjacent to our current Campus Point project which added 304 000 square feet at a $105 million about $356 per square foot.
Qualcomm is in for a short time than it's been entirely released Eli Lilly and want go some redevelopment and Dean can take you through the machinations.
But essentially Lilly ends up netting leasing about 72 000 more square feet from us.
Notable leasing achievements in the sub for the quarter 300 000 square feet of 510 Townsend Street as we just mentioned our 208 000 square foot lease to Bristol-Myers Squibb at 100 Binney and 90 000 square feet to Juno at 400 Dexter.
We expect to announce in the not too distant future the completion of a lease to a full building user at 60 Binney and we continue to be well leased well preleased in a highly visible pipeline that now has visibility into 2016 2017 and then 2018.
As we mentioned in the sub capital allocation for this year 45% to Cambridge 22% to San Diego 13% to Mission Bay some 4% to New York and 16% to others.
Dean will comment on the balance sheet but we expect to be at 6.9x net debt-to-EBITDA at year end.
And on the dividend side with continuing low payout ratio and growing cash flows we expect the Board to continue dividend increases sharing our increasing cash flows with investors.
So with that said let me turn it over to Dean.
Alright.
Thanks Joel.
Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everybody.
I have got three important topics but really wanted to take a brief moment to express our appreciation for our team for recognition as the 2015 recipient of the NAREIT Gold investor communication and reporting excellence award.
It truly is an honor for the company to receive this award and our team will continue to focus on transparency quality and efficiency of reporting and communication to the investment community.
I have three topics today.
First I want to cover the continued strong performance from our Class A buildings in AAA locations.
Second provide an update on our solid balance sheet access to diverse sources of capital and brief comments on key items for the second half of '15.
And third briefly on our disciplined allocation of capital and management of our value creation pipeline.
So kicking it off with our continued strong performance our strategic focus on unique collaborative campuses and urban innovation cluster sub markets continue to drive very strong operating and financial results.
We reported FFO per share of $1.31 up 10.1% over the second quarter of 2014.
Demand for our Class A assets in AAA locations also continues to drive strong leasing activity.
We updated our guidance and increased the midpoint of our range of FFO per share from $5.22 to $5.24.
FFO per share growth for 2015 is now greater than 9% representing our second consecutive year of very strong growth above 9%.
We remain on track to reach our occupancy guidance range of 96.9% to 97.4% by year end.
However as disclosed over the past couple of quarters two lease expirations in the second quarter drove a temporary decline in occupancy.
One lease was for a 128 000 rentable square feet at 19 Presidential located in the suburbs of Boston and that lease expired at a rate of about $25.
And another lease for about 82 000 rentable square feet at 2525 State Highway 54 in Research Triangle Park expired at a rate of about $20.
Both of these were single tenant buildings and we are marketing each building for multi tenancy at rental rates equal to or above the expiring rates.
We remain well positioned with high quality buildings and tenancy.
Cash same property NOI growth has averaged about 5% over the last 10 years and the midpoint of our guidance is above this average at 6%.
This performance is driven primarily from a favorable restructure with 94% of our leases containing annual rent escalations additionally strong demand for our Class A buildings in AAA locations has driven high leasing volume and pricing power in our key urban cluster sub markets.
And for the second consecutive quarter has been the primary driver of the increases in our strong FFO per share guidance for 2015.
Next turning to an update on our solid balance sheet access to capital and some brief comments for the second half of the year.
And first our balance sheet is very solid with well laddered debt maturities and really limited maturities through 2018.
Additionally our balance sheet liquidity is very strong at approximately 1.1 billion.
Turning to sources of capital for 2015.
Our guidance has decreased about 90 million at the midpoint to 1.05 billion and really consisted the following.
12% of our 125 million from net cash provided by operating activities after dividends.
15% or roughly 155 million from a net incremental increase in debt.
And 73% or 770 million from asset sales and other sources of capital which I will touch on in a moment.
Included in our net incremental debt for the year is the issuance of 50 million of unsecured notes offsetting this increase and there's a reduction in some projected proceeds from asset dispositions which results in a modest net increase in incremental debt for 2015.
I should take a moment to highlight the recent volatility in the debt capital markets.
In the month of July over 100 billion of unsecured bonds were issued driven primarily by M&amp;A activity and it seems like the M&amp;A activity will likely to continue and drive new issuance volume in the near term.
All in pricing including new issue concessions is higher today versus 90 to maybe 120 days ago.
Given the recent volatility in the debt capital markets we prefer not to speculate on pricing for our future transaction but suffice it to say that guidance can absorb the range of interest rates reflected at recent volatility.
More importantly we have significant liquidity on balance sheet and have flexibility to be patient on the timing of the issuance of our unsecured notes.
We are also working on two secured construction loans one of which will fund the construction in 2015 for 50 and 60 Binney Street in Cambridge the other construction loan will provide funding beginning in 2016 for the construction of our unconsolidated JV development for Uber at 1455 and 1515 Third Street in Mission Bay.
Both loans are expected to close this year will significantly increase our balance sheet liquidity to over 1.7 billion by year end.
And we will disclose the key terms of each loan in the future.
Asset sales are an important component of our sources of capital and we will continue to focus on growth in FFO per share and net asset value while we fund our highly leased value creation projects while also improving our net debt to adjusted EBITDA to less than seven times by year end.
Our midpoint of guidance for dispositions and other sources of capital is 770 million and consist of the following.
About 550 million or 71% has been identified and is working through various stages.
This includes 94 million completed to date a 190 million under contract related to the sale of a 70% interest at 225 Denny Street roughly a 4.5% cap rate and about 266 million working through the process.
The remainder is about 220 million as a policy we do not speculate on potential sales that have not been identified but we'll continue to focus on sales of both operating properties and land.
More importantly we will continue to provide disclosure of specific sales when they are identified and classified as held for sale.
Additionally as mentioned last quarter our ATM expired in early June and we expect to file a new program.
Turning to our allocation of capital and management of our value creation pipeline.
Our investment strategy focuses on the allocation of capital and the class A buildings and AAA locations that really should translate into higher long term value for our shareholders.
84% of our capital for 2015 will be allocated primarily to four higher value clusters of markets including Cambridge Mission Bay plus SoMa Manhattan and Tori Pines/University town center.
We've been very disciplined with our value creation activities we have a modest size pipeline undergoing construction today.
Our value creation pipeline has declined to about 12% with about one half of our pipeline under active construction and the other one half representing near term and future projects.
We tend to focus on minimizing our leasing risk over the past five years we have commenced about 4.1 million rentable square feet of ground up developmental projects with about one half of that representing 100 preleased single tenancy projects and the other one half representing multitenancy projects that on average were 36% preleased.
Our value creation projects under active construction today aggregating about 2 million rentable square feet were 71% leased and 17% under negotiation.
I think the other key attribute of our discipline is we really are on budget.
Of the 4.1 million rentable square feet that commenced over the last five years these projects have been completed or the projects completed today are about 1.9 million of that rentable and have on average been completed under budget with initial cash yield slightly above our estimates at the commencement of these projects.
Lastly on guidance and closing comment here the detailed assumptions underlying our updated guidance for 2015 are included on page three and four of our supplemental package.
We are really in a unique position with strong demand for a class A assets in urban inundation cluster submarket.
Internal growth remains very strong.
We have a visible and highly leased multiyear value creation pipeline.
We continue to focus our strategy of generating cash growth and cash flows from operating activities FFO per share and net asset value.
We are also focused on increasing our common stock dividends while retaining significant cash flows for investment into highly leased value creation projects.
We believe we have the right assets the right locations and the best roster of client tenants and we remain focused on continuing to build our best in class franchise.
With that I'll turn it back to Joel.
Thank you very much so that's our formal comment.
Operator do you want to open it up for Q&amp;A please? Thank you [Operator Instructions].
We’ll take our first question from Smedes Rose with Citi.
I wanted to ask a little more about the San Diego purchase for $105 million.
What do you expect to spend to upgrade the facility thinking about Lilly’s new? And how do you think about the stabilized returns there? And then just want to make sure you were far along on the entitlement process for construction at adjacent building that about to be put on hold now? So let me -- I am going to ask Dan to comment.
But we haven’t projected fully construction cost so Dan is just going to give you rough estimate.
Same thing with yields when we develop our full budget we’ll take them into the supplement but we hope it to be north of 7 broadly but Dan can comment on the deal.
So we expect that we’ll be north of 7 in terms of cash and GAAP on that opportunity.
You’re mostly right about the -- so two there are two components To Lilly; one is we have their existing space in 10300 Campus Point Drive plus we have executed a -- it's actually a built to suit building for them which would have been adjacent to that 10300 building.
So we terminated the built to suit in favor of this new acquisition.
And we are reworking basically reworking the site plan now to consolidate the entitlements into a new building which will be on the 10290 site.
And Steve maybe construction of… I guess we’re estimating maybe 300 plus or minus.
Yes exactly.
Yes so it’s about 300 plus or minus on the redevelopment.
And then I just want to ask you on 225 Binney obviously is very attractive cap rate and you mentioned the number of potential buyers there.
So could you talk about a little more kind of the range of buyers? I mean were they mostly institutional like TIAA or were they family office as well or foreign sovereign funds or anything on that? Well we talked to quite a number of people.
And I would say there was a large group of very interested buyers including a number of sovereign wealth funds.
But because of certain investment restrictions for sovereign funds as you know if they were to hold over a majority of an interest creates tax issues for those and it is we finally ended up focusing on domestic high quality institutions that could own greater than 49%.
So it was a great mix and it was mostly high quality institutions and foreign sovereign funds.
We’ll go next to Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
On the San Diego acquisition I was just wondering if you could help us understand how that all slow through.
Will it be like an acquisition of 105 million with the Qualcomm lease and then start capitalizing? Or how will that hit the P&amp;L or just teens? You’re correct Sheila there is a short lease back for about 90 days and then the project I think effective October will enter our redevelopment program and we’ll commence the process of converting that to its assets lab use.
So there is a very short lease back period.
And then on 505 Brannan Street in supplementary you talk about -- it was pretty significant up zoning.
And I am just wondering how long that will take and your confidence level with achieving that zoning up zoning? Sure as you saw phase one is fully entitled that first 135 000 square feet and then the phase two will be part of the adoption of the Central SoMa plan.
So we have a number of thought about strategies to lock that down.
But ultimately I think it will be a couple of years out before we do lockdown the propM allocation for that property as well.
So you’ll go forward with just phase one initially? Yes we will.
And do you think that will be tech or life science? It could be either and we have strong demand from both sectors.
We’ll go next to Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess starting out on 225 Binney are you going to receive a management fee on that 70%? And if so what’s the percentage rate? Yes we are going to receive standard property management fees but we have been asked by our partners not to disclose that percentage so I am sorry I can’t give that to you.
And then I think you guys had about an $80 million change in investments on the balance sheet to getting flow through earnings.
Can you talk about what’s in there? Not Company specific but you’re correct our unrealized gains are up to almost 140 million.
It’s handful companies that more initial invested in when they were private and they’re not publicly traded companies with a significant after market.
I think somebody asked the question maybe a year or year and a half ago about what the mark-to-market potential and I conservatively mentioned it was 2x.
And so I think you get some sense for the upside in that investment goal.
And I think from a P&amp;L perspective we have been realizing some gains but they've been fairly modest time-to-time and that gives us a steady flow of other income.
I think what we might consider overtime is selectively monetizing some of that portfolio and reinvesting that capital into our business.
And is any of that in your guidance in terms of source of capital or income or anything? Only from the standpoint of the normal run rate Jamie we typically have 1 million to 2 million of investment gains a quarter typically more like $1 million.
So that run rate is in there but anything large we would try to carve out and identify for you.
So the answer is no there is nothing lumpy included in our guidance.
Okay.
And then I guess bigger picture we've seen a lot of health insurer consolidation over the last month or so.
Can you guys talk about what impact do you think that may have on the broader healthcare space and your business potentially? Well I think that chapter is yet to be written.
I guess you could draw some analogy as to the airline industry that it's going to be bumpy and you can't always get deeps when you want.
So I think that now with the Affordable Care Act having been reconfirmed in a number of specific areas by the Supreme Court I think what will shake out is you will have three or four it looks like three but you will have others dominant providers and they will be important in influencing how they insure under the law and under the ACA and obviously important in negotiating with the industry.
So but that's yet to play out.
What impact you think it might have on just capital flows to pharmaceuticals is there a talk of that CapEx? I don’t think so.
I think it certainly is as strong as we've ever seen it.
If you just look at the M&amp;A activity almost everyday although a lot of that's in the generic space certainly you look at the venture side and what's big in the venture side is not only venture but institutional crossover investors putting large large sums of capital into companies that are private and that ultimately go public and you see that both in life science and tech and then obviously the IPO market I think remains pretty strong.
Remember something else that I think is going to be a huge benefit to this industry and nobody has really talked about it is there is a bill working its way through Congress and I have a high degree of feeling that it is going to pass and that is a one-time tax Obama is in favor of it on companies that have large foreign cash overseas a lot of in the tech sector pharma itself has over $200 billion of cash significant amount of that is overseas.
So if there's a one-time tax or something they are projecting between 14% and 16% that will fund infrastructure in the U.S.
that's going to mean that there could be 100 billion plus money flowing back to the U.S.
for reinvestment.
I think that's going to be a huge boom to this industry.
Okay.
And then just my final question.
Good execution on 225 Binney are you getting more assets you want to put in the market for sale? I think you will see us look at another core asset there certainly we've been contacted by quite a few people I wouldn’t say there is alignment or door but there is quite a few people looking and so we're looking at a couple of core assets and then clearly we have a number of non-core assets and land parcels that we're working on.
So the answer is yes.
We will go next to Kevin Tyler with Green Street Advisors.
Hi guys.
Policy on the tenant at 225 they've been in the news stocks selling off 20% plus as drug sales slowed down.
Can you comment a bit on the broader state of the market the biotech market and then some of the read through on such a large company loses that much of its market value overnight? Yes remember too that that company has increased its valuation dramatically.
I actually did an interview of George Scangos about a year ago at a I think it was an event in San Francisco and I remember asking him what the market cap of Biogen Idec was the name previously when he started and it was $14 billion and asked him what his worry was and he said he thought that market capital is going to go down in negotiating his contract.
So you saw it go to north of a 100 billion and they did have a sell off.
Let me speak to Biogen itself I think the management team is a great team.
George is a highly seasoned professional.
Obviously they lowered estimates for their multiple sclerosis franchise and that was not welcoming to the street and obviously significantly cut value and this is by analysts and others the value attributed to their pipeline.
One of the really big potential value from that pipeline was their Alzheimer's drug and obviously the drug missed hitting a significant response on key measurements and it also demonstrated I guess some evidence of brain swelling among some limited number of patients but one believes that they still have a good chance of having good phase three results it's difficult expensive and risky but that's where they're headed.
Anybody who can crack Alzheimer's really will be the beneficiary of just an unending number of patients unfortunately.
I think you know you have to look at a lot of the tech and lot of the biotech companies and obviously their price based on their revenues and on their pipeline of products or opportunities and I think when somebody has to bring a little more reality to guidance than they had I think you see a pretty large sell off but I think some of that bounce back and I think the company over time will recover much of that valuation so it still is a very-very well valued company so we aren't worried.
But I think you know in any industry that has mean look what happened to Google on the Plus side their CFO came in and announced some really disciplined approach to cost cutting and the stock just popped dramatically.
So that's the marketplace.
Okay I appreciate that.
In terms of Dean this one might be for you in terms of the acquisition guidance for the year I think you brought it down 50 million this quarter versus last quarter.
Just wondering what might have driven that move was it a capital allocation decision or was there something else driving it.
There's some details on page three of our supplemental package for reference but in short we had one transaction including our guidance last quarter was about a $135 million transaction and really at the seller's request timing has been moved back to the first quarter of '16 so that transaction's still there it's just not part of 2015 anymore.
Offsetting that reduction of a 135 was the purchase of the Campus Point building.
We'll go next to Mike Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Can you guys describe what you've planned for 10300 Campus Point when Eli Lilly decides to vacate well when they vacate to go to 10290.
I'll ask Dan to comment.
Hi this is Dan again.
We feel really good about the prospects of backfilling that.
It's a barely it's a very highly built out lab office space that really was in they spent a significant amount of their own capital that we will be the net beneficiaries for.
We are currently in paperwork with four plus tenants already.
This is going to be some of our best phase in the portfolio.
So we generally expect a significant you know 15% plus or minus increase in current rent at the release.
We feel the downtime will be very short given where we are with current discussion and fairly modest amount of capital to get there.
I should clarify that lease is about a 125 000 square feet and the contractual expiration is in the fourth quarter of '16.
Okay then how your discussions I guess progressing with the city on the north tower land site option are those just a formality and that site is going to be yours.
Well I don't know that anything's ever a formality but we do have a legal option that lasts for 17 years so I feel good about that but we are in deep discussions we had several meetings with the city this week we have a discussion going-on on increasing the FAR and how that might work and so that's where we are but we expect you know a resolution to that and some decision this year maybe within the next quarter or so.
So that's moving along pretty intensively.
We'll go next to Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Can we talk a little bit more about page four in your supplemental I just want a little more clarity on the asset sales that you're targeting through the end of the year.
I guess the first question is where are you processalized with 500 Forbes in South San Francisco I know that was listed last quarter in the south as well is that where are you in terms of getting that thing professionally.
So let me comment briefly and then Steve can add some comments.
The everything in the category of pending and targeted the only transaction that is under contract today is 225 Binney which you're well aware of everything else is not at that stage yet but moving through various areas I don't know if Steve wants to comment anything further.
Hi Ross it’s Steve Richardson.
Yes we've fully engaged the marketing team now.
We've got packages out we've been touring prospective buyers through the property so we're in the early innings of the overall marketing process.
We'll keep you updated as time moves along.
And then somebody asked before Ross about would with our success at 225 Binney would we look at another core asset sale and the answer is yes we're in active we're active on another core asset potentially so that stay tuned on that.
The 240 000 square feet with $8.2 million of NOI that get identified as other what exactly is that? We’re not prepared to provide more color on what we have.
But let me just say that we have a number of assets that we’ve targeted that could allow us to achieve our targeted dispositions.
So we have flexibility in what we execute there and we have a number of projects where our operating assets were looking at.
And how does that other category defer from what you been laid out is projected remainder/asset sales that additional $195 million $245 million that stuff that’s not on the market yet.
I am trying to understand the new launch there.
Yes the stuff that’s not quite as advanced as what totals up to roughly the midpoint of $550 million which includes the pending and targeted.
So we have a little bit of work her to quickly resolve over the next few months.
And we expect to be in a position to give you better color on this entire targeted disposition here for ’15.
And one asset in that other for example is a important project that we have gone to the tenants who has expressed interest in potentially acquiring it so we have a discussion there.
But we also are working on a sale package so these are all not just imaging that we’re going to sell something but these are actually pretty active and trying to move them to an active sale position.
And then my last question is really around the last footnote on that page and you guys have made a pretty hefty profit being biotech investors over the past few years.
What’s preventing you from just from a risk standpoint given the massive run up in biotech stocks in the last four-five years? Why not take pretty hefty profits sell down a lot of those positions rather than I don’t want to guess that we’re gamble.
But gamble those on biotech continuing to run up.
I am going to let Dean answer that he did addressed it in a previous question to some extent.
But I think to some extent we have taken some.
There are a number of companies there that have achieved pretty nice valuation.
So you have to remember too these are -- a number of them are development stage companies.
And to the extent they turn out to be future Amgen’s Biogen’s Celgene’s and so forth the upside is even far greater than one can imagine with the realization of that pipeline.
But we get your question so Dean can answer it.
It’s a balance there at the end of the day part of our focus over the next four quarters will be looking to monetize components of that so we can reinvest the capital.
So we are looking at that.
Couple of them recently had their Initial Public Offerings so it’s a bit of lock up period as well they can see.
But we do see that as the source for our development pipeline as we needed.
We’ll go next to Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Maybe just a broader question on the development pipeline I think Dean mentioned that the value creation pipeline has come down and the size of the Company overall.
But how do you envision that going forward? As you move into ’16 are there sufficient projects and span that you’ll be able to kind of keep that pipeline at a fairly large level or do you see it coming down before you can kind of get entitlements and everything ready for another round? Well I think....Yes go ahead.
I was going to say Mike there is two things to consider our active projects under construction today are highly leased and are going to be delivered over the next number of quarters.
Page two of our press release highlighted as well as page 30 or so in our supplemental 32 highlights the rough time line of near term projects.
But the stuff that we’re going to commence in the second half of ’15 that fits in the near term pipeline today 1.1 million square feet is 80% leased and 20% under negotiation.
So we do have very good visibility into really high quality developments that will generate EBITDA and cash flows going out into basically ’16 ’17 and ’18 in that time frame.
So you got this visibility from a siding perspective.
The overall value creation pipeline might grow and dollar value temporarily but it will sell back down as we deliver a number of projects call it over the next six quarters.
And then I guess with regard to and maybe more acquisition of redevelopment assets to get product to market little bit faster.
Should we expect as you move late into this year or maybe even early in the next year that you start looking at a greater number of acquisitions to bring that product in line faster or are you pretty happy just going ground up development and those discussions that you’re having? Well I don’t think we have to I think you get great value.
If you just look at the pipeline that’s being articulated and you look at the page 22 spreadsheet it’s pretty robust.
There are too many people out there that have control on their balance sheet of future value creation and future cash flowing assets out 2016 2017 2018 and then overtime maybe beyond.
And we only look at the acquisition market really opportunistically we underwrite everything but look at it pretty carefully.
And a lot of times you don’t even see things coming up like the Qualcomm deal if you were to look at that a year ago or six months ago you don’t even know some of these things happen.
So we're not so focused on acquisitions.
I don’t think we need to do that as a elevated for this the company as a mainstay.
But we clearly look at it as a way to build our franchise where it makes sense and where we have great in-sale sites or projects.
Obviously a lot of asset sales in the pipeline and that's the primary source of funding for new development.
The equity is still off the table and not something that you are considering for this year and early next year? Well as I think we've said before it's our lowest priority as far as funding.
And so we think that free cash flow obviously that that we can generate by bringing on additional cash flow and then obviously asset sales land sales are our primary focus.
We will go next to Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Is it correct that the original discussion with 225 Binney was 80% not 70% of the value of the asset? Yes I don’t know that we had we talked to a pretty broad range of people running from 49% to 100% depending upon what people we're thinking and then we came upon what we felt was appropriate for our continuing interest and the partner's long-term interest.
So that's how we felt about it.
Okay.
So definitely.
Richard it's Dean here.
I would only add one other comment.
I think our guidance last quarter gave a range from 70% to 90% … Okay.
… when we were airing down the terms of the deal.
That's fair.
Very very thank you.
And as far as TIAA's perspective what it is for them in your mind besides obviously high valuable asset until 2028 there is nothing going to happen on their 4.5% return.
So is that purely just they are just a believer in Cambridge for the long-term is that where their mind is do you think? Well I think in my introductory comments I spend actually quite a bit of time going through how I think they look at it and institutional investors looked at I won't go and repeat that at the moment but I think the investors we have talked to and they are quite a few certainly well more than a dozen had a very very positive and strong view of that market and wanted to have a strong foothold in a AAA location in a Class A building with a great tenant.
I think that's where institutional money is certainly part of it is focused today.
My I apologize I missed the beginning of your call.
So pardon.
It's okay okay.
Okay.
And.
It's Peter Moglia I just wanted to add one other very important factor that drove TIAA do this transaction which was they wanted to do something with Alexandria I mean they work with the best operators in the best locations and they identified us as that and that was a very important aspect of this transaction for them.
So we are very proud of that and we think that their brand and their acumen in examining our real estate and us is a great testament to our quality.
I guess the question I was having was is this is going to be reoccurring relationship going forward with them? Very well could be.
Okay.
Regarding the investments in companies and Dean you spoke about.
Is there any situation where you are both an investor and a landlord? There are I would say the investments probably 80% are non-tenant investments and probably 20% or so are that are fair number.
That's correct in that range.
Is there any kind of restrictions about selling or buying stock if you are also have business as a landlord tenant I don’t know if you would be? Not regulatory but I can tell you internally we ensure that we look at these transactions separately.
In other words the lease is a separate transaction and if we decide to invest we handle that separately from that decision to lease space.
Okay.
And then last question.
Joel you I think you referenced 20 FDA approval so far in 2015 I got that much detail at the beginning of the call.
But is it true also that not many in the way blockbusters in terms of profitability of those drugs is that would you say that that's a fair statement relative to previous years? And maybe just some color around the profitability as opposed to just the straight on approvals of the drugs? No I don’t think that's true I think you're also seeing a new class of cholesterol lowering drugs which are likely to be kind of new era blockbusters clearly some of the cancer drugs will be I think it remains to be seen if any of the CNS drugs get approval and become they likely would become but that's something that remains to be seen.
But now I think that the drugs that are being approved today you have to remember too we're also in an era of as I said precision medicine so a lot of drugs that are being approved are for various targeted rare and often diseased patient population patients that you know haven't been able haven't been responsive to mainline therapy so you see some of that so don't assume they're not profitable but you can assume that they're more niche drugs and that's a matter of just better biology and better science and better regulatory science as I was saying earlier.
You know you do have some pretty big blockbusters like you know the Hep C curance of all the and others so this is the new generation of drugs I think is a very great set of promising opportunities so we view it as pretty highly positive.
We'll go next to Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Thank you good afternoon.
Joel I'm curious with the benchmark pricing here 225 Binney and continuing discussions in some other assets and some other markets.
I wonder if you could give us kind of a handle if you will on how we should think about cap rates in Cambridge versus cap rates for the rest of the portfolio and particularly I'm thinking about New York City and San Francisco San Francisco generally and to what extent we should expect differential cap rates higher lower in either of those markets and then also if you could touch on to what extent kind of the ratio of general office space to lab space might impact the cap rates.
So maybe take it one by one so I think in and Tom hearing can come in on that Cambridge cap rate beyond 225 but I think it's fair to say that we see continuing cap rate compression in that market I think it's true.
We may end up selling one or more assets in the San Francisco Bay Area that I think will bring I think good cap rate data to the table as well and so I think you're going to see again some cap rate compression in that market certainly vis a vis your assets.
New York City we don't plan to sell the New York Center but I think Peter reported back a quarter or two ago I think FL Green sold an asset or bought an asset I can't remember not too far from our estate and it was on a long term ground lease I think at a… There was a seven cap rate actually we talked about that at Investor Day.
It seems like New York is probably the only major market that from first quarter to second quarter had a small uptick in their cap rate according to Corpax but all our other markets actually they stayed stable or even dropped.
One thing that I really noted to Joel before this call when I was doing some researches that since the suburban Maryland market actually had a 22 basis point decrease in cap rate so found that to be very encouraging considering we do have holdings there but overall I think cap rate Jim are going to remain stable.
You know the tenure has gone up about 25 basis points from the last quarter there's still about a close to a 400 basis point slack between the historical cap rate and the margin it usually has with the tenure so if it goes up if interest rates go up even more I don't think it's really going to affect cap rates until maybe it starts to go up by a 100 basis points or so I think we're going to have a long run of continued stabilization maybe even some more compression as the sovereign funds continue to pour money into these markets that we're in and as Joel alluded to we had a quite a number of investors looking at 225 Binney I think we'll have quite a number of investors looking at the next project we have so overall I think to answer your question I think the Cambridge cap rate that you saw was very healthy I would expect that assets of that quality will continue to trade at that level and I think we're probably looking at least another 12 months of stable cap rates and then we'll see how external factors affect that.
I would say also Jim in thinking about our asset base as I mentioned actually in the second page of the supplement before the press release we start to try to highlight what we think are the important best in class office REIT attributes that we have and then highlighting 75% of our ABR now comes from these class A assets and AAA locations with the 53% of ABR from investment rate tenants so I got to believe that as people look at NEB and look at cap rates with respect to our asset base they'll take note and I think adjust them appropriately down.
I think on the office lab side not sure I can comment.
Tom can maybe give you some color in Cambridge or in cap rate office versus lab.
I think there's not been comparable prices covering Cambridge and I think that maybe the -- versus one of the ACP trade but that -- for city interest that University part.
But that had a lot of leases of their durations building that were certainly older.
I think the average age is 19 years old or something like that and not quite the Class A new assets that are prevalent to Kendall Square.
It was also a minority non-controlling interest as well so that certainly could have discounted the price.
So I think… Okay and then finally from me.
Can you give us an update in terms of the demand for space in Cambridge and what impact that’s having on market rents? And maybe if you kind of relate that to your Cambridge portfolio your 100 owned portfolio.
How you feel about where those rents are versus the market? Yes Jim.
So we’re observing obviously the very tight market conditions that are Cambridge right now.
We have active negotiations underway and proposals going out for the balance of our space at -- and let me clarify we have proposals going after the balance of our space.
The 100 Binney as you know we committed about half of that building to -- leased about half of that building to Bristol-Myers Squibb.
We are seeing significant upward movement and we’re including our sales pretty aggressively increasing rent close to perspective tenants due to the scarcity of available space in the market and the number -- I think quantity quantity of perspective tenants there in the market.
And Jim this is Peter Moglia one other thing I wanted to ground out is as Tom mentioned rents have been continuing to increase in Boston rents are continuing to increase in San Francisco they’re continuing to increase in San Diego.
We’re even seeing it in Seattle as well for life science space and that’s just going to continue to put pressure on cap rates so I guess kind of round up your original question.
So on Cambridge just to get back to one number I think you could see something between 12% and 15% mark to market there this year.
We’ll go next to Smedes Rose with Citi.
Dean just want to come back to the investment side can you basically tell us the largest not by name on who it is but by dollars the largest public holding that you have of that $173 million.
What does the single largest position amount to? And the on the private side about $190 million or so what would be the concentration in the largest investment there? There is probably -- we don’t have that information instantly handy.
But I would say there is probably about half of dozen companies that make up the majority of that a good portion of that mark to market Michael.
For the 140 million of mark to market that’s about six companies you’re saying? Yes about half of dozen that make up a good majority of that.
And how widespread is the $190 million of that like 30 investments or 10 investments? Well it’s pretty widespread.
So it’s a lot? Yes.
And then the increasing in terms of -- it looks like I guess some companies done public in the first quarter where effectively your available for sale cost downs have moved up from $22 million to $34 million which stayed flat in the second quarter.
So the big move in unrealized gains sequentially was just from the companies that have done public in the first quarter seeing in their stocks move up 50%-60%? Yes the big increase had a lot to do with IPOs in the current quarter.
But your cost base has stayed at $34 million.
So I would have thought you would have had seen more transfer out of five bucket into the public if they’ve done public in the second quarter? Michael our cost bases on these investments are really-really small.
Really on the public securities? Yes on the public securities.
Yes we probably had I think page four footnote five gives you a sense I think we’re -- of the $172 million or $173 million $140 of it roughly was unrealized gains in the public securities.
And last quarter that was $83 million.
And so I was just trying to figure out if you moved up sequentially $55 million how much of that was stock just going up from the first quarter versus companies that went public is the cost base of the investments stayed flat? The majority of it relates to two investments that went public during the second quarter that drove the majority of the increase in unrealized gains.
And then as we think about this disposition of $195 million to $245 million the projected asset sales have securities effectively versus hard assets versus land because all of them have different sort of embedded cost to Alexandria? Yes.
We are not prepared to get into that specific number right now Michael.
It is a component that you will see us reinvest over call it the next four quarters or so.
Just to give you an example in July alone I think we monetized a little bit of our balance but it's relatively small in scale of the unrealized gains.
So we are focused on it and you will see us get to it overtime.
But most of the stuff is in progress so it is 200 million to 245 million of other asset remainder of asset sale? No we commented earlier Michael that the stuff that's more advanced is included in the category right above that.
I am turning to the page right now.
So the category that's pending in targeted asset sales 225 Binney is under P&amp;S as you know the rest of the transactions in that balance in the disclosure is at various stages not at the P&amp;S level yet but actively moving through the transaction process.
And we have a number so for it's 220 at the midpoint that we're working on at much earlier stages.
But we feel pretty comfortable with what we have to execute here.
Again there is good interest in our core assets along with Joel mentioned we have a tenant interest in a specific asset.
So we've got good activity going on right now.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
So I'd turn the call back over to Joel Marcus for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for joining our second quarter call and we will talk to you on the third quarter.
Thanks again very much for your time.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
My name is Lauren and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Paula Schwartz.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
The company's actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead Joel.
Thank you and welcome everybody to the third quarter call.
Today with me are Dean Shigenaga Chief Financial Officer; Steve Richardson Chief Operating Officer; Dan Ryan Executive Vice President; and Tom Andrews Executive Vice President.
And firstly I'd like to start by congratulating the entire Alexandria team on a truly excellent third quarter; operating and financial results really in all respect.
Let me turn to the core to start the conversation.
We had a very solid third quarter 96.2% occupancy.
We leased over 1 million square feet.
And as you know with the 4 million square feet year-to-date is for 2015 the highest in the company's history with average lease term this quarter of about 8.7 years very good.
I think that really goes to the heart that the team has successfully executed and taken advantage of this great high-demand environment.
Also 8.8% cash leasing spreads 4.8% cash same-store property NOI growth coupled with strong annual escalations in virtually every lease and triple-net lease structure in virtually every lease also has really driven our high margins.
We're very proud of the core.
Really proof positive our client tenant user base wants to be on Alexandria campuses and in Alexandria owned and managed Class A buildings because we are the brand.
And we take the time and make it our business and solemn commitment to understand our tenants businesses their space needs growth as well as their challenges.
And most of the facilities we deal with are really mission-critical facilities of our user base.
Moving to demand to give you a sense of what we see at the operating ground level.
It's certainly true there is a very supply constraint space availability in Alexandria's urban campus markets particularly Cambridge and the City of San Francisco.
This tightness of availability has certainly impacted behavior of some tenants in the market.
Demand for Alexandria's urban campus and Class A buildings is the strongest in the company's 21-year history.
And we're really blessed to be in the absolute best locations with the best assets at the intersection of the two most important successful industries life science and technology.
Increasing macro volatility things like China et cetera have clearly had an impact on decision making by some tenants in the market.
We believe that Alexandria's best-in-class campuses and facilities though will continue to maintain high occupancy and strong rental rates during such volatility.
The window is open for biotech but has become more selective regarding quality and valuation and undoubtedly we'll have some impact on certain tenants in the market.
Public sector big tech at the forefront of mobile and cloud have had a banner year in 2015.
Some and certainly not all of the private tech companies with $1 billion valuations and above that are private may have some challenges with sustaining recent peaks in private market valuations which may have some impact again on decisions by some of tenants in the market.
Moving to tenant strength and selection something that's really very important here at Alexandria.
I think it's great to note that 53% of our annual base rent is from investment-grade tenants one of the highest in the REIT industry.
And our duration of our top-20 tenants comprising almost half of our ABR is 8.6 years.
So we have strong solid durable and secured cash flows.
Our very high-quality science and tech team coupled with our world-class advisors provide us first-in-class research on our tenant industries and also our tenant underwriting maybe two examples in point with leases signed this quarter.
Let's go to Pinterest first.
We signed a 150 000 square foot lease for 100% of our 505 Brannan Street campus project in one of the absolute best locations in the City of San Francisco for our first phase of development.
We had multiple users looking at this spectacular location but we chose Pinterest because of our longer-term relationship with the management team.
Initial discussion started in kind of the spring of 2014 when Pinterest had raised $750 million with a valuation of $5 billion.
Since then Pinterest has raised an additional $1.3 billion on a valuation of $11 billion.
So we try to be highly discriminating in our tenant selection.
One of our key advisors is deeply connected to Pinterest which also helped as well.
We understand and like their user base and growth prospects.
We feel that the B2B business will be even more potent than their historical B2C.
On the multiple revenue stream aspect we like the ad revenues the approach they are using to buyable pins and partnerships with brands that can give them multiple stream of investment or multiple revenue streams.
We also like the management team and the investors of first class including Andreessen Horowitz Bessemer Trust Fidelity Goldman and Wellington.
The financial metrics are also important.
We looked at cash on hand and ability of them to survive in the downturn.
We also looked at their cash burn and the ability to cut it in case they need to.
And also critically important all these companies a reasonable and methodical pathway to profitability.
Moving on to bluebird bio.
We signed a lease for 253 000 square feet at our 60 Binney Street property with bluebird bio.
Overall demand in the Cambridge market at the time of selection of bluebird for the 60 Binney project was significant.
There was a mix of demand both credit and non-credit as well as life science and technology.
Space needs and timing vary considerably for each requirement.
IBM Watson was in the market and we were fortunate to capture them as a subtenant on a 10 years lease at the 75/125 Binney Street.
That location and space matched their timing well as 60 and 100 Binney developments would have been delivered too late for their requirement.
Similarly Alexandria was also able to fill the requirement for Bristol-Myers at 100 Binney since we had opportunistically begun the project.
We also had secured Sanofi-Genzyme as our anchor at 50 Binney.
So bluebird bio was ultimately selected based on a number of factors including timing space needs relationship and we have high degree of respect for Nick Leschly the CEO whose father also was CEO of Smithkline Beecham.
The quality of the company the profile the quality of the technology and the prospects their space need match well with the 60 Binney project which will lead to significant construction cost savings and given the ability to build both 50 and 60 Binney simultaneously.
Alexandria has also had an important and strategic relationship both with the company and also its early investors and Board members.
And we also see the overall mix within the ecosystem to be an important consideration for a long-term value.
Similar to Biogen bluebird is a few years away from potential regulatory as Biogen was a number of years ago from potential regulatory approval of its first product.
It would then commence commercial sales soon thereafter and continue to build out their product offering and grow the company.
Both the stage and growth potential of the company are critical to the overall ecosystem and fundamentally while large pharma companies keep moving into Kendall Square today.
At the end of the day we have three publicly traded biotech companies looking at these Binney projects.
And we ultimately chose bluebird for 60 Binney.
bluebird has almost $1 billion in cash and marketable securities as of the end of the second quarter.
Its current market cap exceeds $3 billion.
I won't get into the drugs but it is clearly the leader in the gene therapy area.
And we believe that their clinical and preclinical programs as well as their partnership will lead to a very successful company over the years.
The current demand is still solid in Cambridge and new requirements of both early and later stage as well.
Remember too we founded Alexandria 21 years ago on the basis that we could successfully underwrite a complex life science industry because no one else up to that time had really been able to successfully do it on a national platform.
And 21 years later I'd say we're doing a great job of it.
On our highly prelease development and redevelopment this provides very strong protection for future cash flows Dean will highlight.
The 1.5 million square feet at 89% leased to be delivered by the fourth quarter of '16 Page 35 of the supplement.
And on Page 36 of the supplement the 1.8 million square feet of development and redevelopment to be delivered in 2017 and 2018.
We're building the budget with very solid yields and good margins to reasonable exit cap rates as you can see.
We're also very careful about any new starts and we'll look at each and every one of them very carefully.
Steve will answer any questions on the new disposition announced the sale of the partial interest at 1500 Owens.
So together with 225 Binney announced last quarter we've secured a very high quality and sophisticated buyer and long-term partner.
Excellent price discovery I think for net asset value and now two of our top submarkets San Francisco and Cambridge and strong price per square foot.
I think this demonstrates Alexandria's ability to create value through careful and prudent asset recycling and high value and high rental rate development.
On final comments couple of things I'd say the recent congressional budget deal there will be about $1 billion to $2 billion additional for NIH per year in funding which is a good thing and increasing the FDA budget which is also good.
There has been a lot of noise around a pharma.
I think it's fair to say today the five majors J&amp;J Roche Novartis Pfizer and Merck all have met or exceeded their expectations and have broad-based new product pipelines which are very sustainable.
They're got multibillion dollar products in the pipeline as well.
And I think the noise around pricing is clearly misguided.
Specialty pharma all of Valeant and Turing where there is little R&amp;D and very aggressive approach to the market built on M&amp;A and other kinds of different approaches I think is where the scrutiny should lie.
Biotech continues to innovate solving dreaded diseases and that's really front and center.
So let me finish before I turn it over to Dean by a couple of comments about biotech in general.
734 IPOs have been launched over the past 36 years raising about $35 billion.
That investment more or less has roughly yielded $850 billion of current value for the sector.
The window is clearly open but more selective on quality and valuation as I said.
And I think something that's important the sentiment not fundamentals have turned negative as the noise factor is high in a political environment.
Sentiment not fundamentals.
Science and medical advances and innovation are accelerating.
Cures will clearly save large amounts of money in the future and there is only sector that can really address that and that's the biopharma sector.
Bottomline is the biotech and pharma sector biotech in particular is well-financed.
Regulators are supportive innovation is present and valuations are lower leading to an optimistic outlook.
Let me turn it over to Dean.
Thanks Joel.
Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everybody.
I've got three important topics to cover today.
First growth in NOI and net asset value through highly lease value creation projects; second prudent management of our balance sheet and our funding strategy; and third key capital matters for the fourth quarter including important comments on our self registration filing this morning.
Jumping right in growth in net operating income and net asset value through disciplined allocation of capital into highly-leased development and redevelopment projects really have highlighted nicely in our supplemental.
And Joel referenced Page 35 and 36 I encourage you to take a look at those two pages.
But for the fourth quarter of '16 we're expecting to deliver about 1.5 million square feet by then.
It's fairly backend weighted.
This is highly leased at about 89%.
And we're going to deliver about $75 million to $80 million of annual incremental NOI upon stabilization of the square footage.
Additionally on Page 36 of our supplemental we've highlighted another 1.8 million square feet again highly leased at 71%.
That is going to contribute another $105 million to $110 million of annual incremental NOI upon stabilization.
And these are projects scheduled for completion really in 2017 and 2018.
All this square footage about 3.3 million square feet is targeted with average cash yield just north of 7%.
In comparison we recently announced the partial sale of two Class A properties with one located in Mission Bay and the other located in Cambridge at an average cap rate of 4.6% really highlighting the tremendous value we have generated through the ground up development of these two properties.
This also highlights the value creation in process on approximately 3.3 million highly-leased rentable square feet again to be placed in service in 2016 2017 and 2018.
Moving on toward the prudent management of our balance sheet and our funding strategy.
As we've highlighted our balance sheet is solid with really well-laddered debt maturities and really limited maturities through 2018.
Our debt maturities for 2016 were reduced subsequent to quarter end with the repayment of $76 million in October leaving less than $235 million maturing in 2016/ Our balance sheet liquidity as of September 30 is over $1.2 billion on a pro forma basis to reflect the $350 million and commitments available under the construction loan for 50 and 60 Binney Street that we closed in October.
Liquidity by the end of the year is expected to be approximately $1.8 billion as we complete an unsecured bond offering very soon in several important sales of real estate.
We remain on track to meet our net debt to adjusted EBITDA goal of 6.9x by yearend.
As you know we focus on decisions that drive long-term versus short-term performance including our leverage goal.
We continue to execute on improvements in our credit metrics including net debt to adjusted EBITDA in order to further enhance our balance sheet with flexibility.
In order to provide transparency in various metrics our disclosures include short-term trends with quarter annualized metrics and longer-term trends with trailing 12-month metrics.
The longer-term metrics eliminate quarter-to-quarter volatility that may appear in the quarterly metrics.
We believe our approach provides the investment community better visibility in the trends and various metrics that we disclose.
Moving on to our funding strategy.
You may have noticed in recent years we have generated over $500 million to fund growth through development.
The two drivers of this included roughly $125 million per year of cash flows from operating activities after dividends.
And approximately $400 million primarily from long-term fixed rate debt from the unsecured bond market through growth in EBITDA.
Growth in EBITDA allows us to fund a significant amount of construction without increasing leverage.
And we expect to continue to fund approximately $0.5 billion of construction in 2016 and 2017 from these two sources of capital.
Demand for high-quality core real estate remain strong and has allowed us to sell on average of approximately $200 million per year over the past five years.
We expect demand for high-quality real estate to continue into 2016.
And accordingly we anticipate real estate sales to remain an important component of our capital plan for 2016.
Over the past five years I think you've noted that our capital strategy execution has been proven to be very prudent on the management of common equity including our projection for 2015 the proceeds of the issuance of common stock has represented really only approximately 20% to 25% of our total sources of capital.
As a reminder there has been no significant common equity issuance in the past two years.
Our capital plan on average for the last five years has utilized significantly less common equity than expected for leverage at 6.9x primarily due to the benefit of retained operating cash flows significant EBITDA growth and sales of real estate.
In summary we will continue funding our growth with the most cost-efficient long-term capital.
Most importantly we will execute these objectives while we also focus on generating growth and FFO per share and net asset value.
Turning to our capital plan for the remainder of 2015.
Most importantly sales of real estate we have about $600 million in proceeds forecasted for the fourth quarter with approximately $300 million or 50% of this under contract to close in the fourth quarter.
The other $300 million or 50% is moving along quickly and is focused on the sale of a partial interest in a core property while we also continue to pursue the sale or sales of other core-like properties.
As a policy we do not comment or speculate on potential sales beyond the current disclosures.
Next on our shelf registration statement.
You may have noticed our shelf registration was filed this morning.
This filing is required is effective upon filing and simply eliminates one additional filing in order for the company to issue unsecured bonds.
The investment grade bond market has shown improvement in recent weeks as you probably are well aware of and we do expect to issue bonds very soon.
We remain focused on tenure of 10 years since it fits wells into our debt maturities.
Additionally as mentioned last quarter our ATM expired in early June and we do expect to file a new program.
Just to be clear we do not expect to use the ATM program this year as we are on track to complete our projected real estate sales for 2015.
Lastly we completed one of the two construction loans anticipated this year and we are focused now on closing the second construction loan in the coming months.
Moving on briefly to guidance and some closing comments.
The detailed assumptions underlying our updated guidance for 2015 are included on Page 3 and 4 of our supplemental package.
We are in a great position today with the real estate strategy focused on unique campuses and AAA urban innovation cluster locations.
We have one of the best teams in the REIT industry and a top brand that collectively drives demand from high quality and innovative companies.
Internal growth is solid and is expected to remain solid in 2016.
We generate high-quality cash flows with 53% of our ABR from investment grade tenants.
Our cash flows are stable with 96% triple net leases.
Our cash flow has increased contractually with 95% of our leases containing annual rent escalations averaging up almost 3%.
Demand remain solid for our high-quality buildings and AAA locations in very supply-constraint innovation submarkets and is expected to continue to drive very solid cash and GAAP rental rate increases on leasing activity over the next year.
We continue to focus on disciplined allocation of capital into our visible and highly-leased multi-year value creation pipeline.
We will continue to execute on prudent management of our balance sheet and funding of our growth with the most cost efficient long-term capital.
Most importantly we will execute these objectives while we also focus on generating growth in FFO per share net asset value and common stock dividends.
We believe we have the right assets in right location that will inspire productivity efficiency creativity and success for our highly innovative client tenants.
Our team remains focused on continuing to build the best-in-class franchise.
Thank you.
And I'll turn it back to Joel.
Operator we're ready to go Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Manny Korchman with Citi.
Just thinking about marketable securities sales as a potential source of equity how are the changes in the biotech stock markets change the way you think about selling or holding on to your marketable securities there? I don't think they've had that much influence.
As you know from this past quarter we did have a number of sales and we'll continue that over the coming quarters.
We still have significant built-in gains.
So we're comfortable.
And I think the quality of the holdings that we have is high.
And so we feel very good about the position we're in.
And we try not to be just pure market timers.
Joel you guys disclosed the amount of those gains.
What was the underlying balance that you sold to get to those gain numbers? Bear with us one second.
I don't have the proceeds right in front of me Manny.
I think that's what you're getting to right? Yes the actual sale amounts exactly.
Again I don't have the actual proceeds.
I think the investment disposition this quarter probably netted out a slight positive in overall investing activity meaning dispositions net of reinvestment.
So it was a small net cash receipt at the end of the day for the quarter.
I mean can we think about it in terms of multiples so was it 2x gain? Was it sort of flat to what you held? Can you give us some idea of just the magnitude? Well to put it into perspective Manny what we are looking at is on the $104 million $105 million of unrealized gains we have as of quarter end I think we only have about a $30 million adjustment.
My other question was so there has been some recent news on Biogen cutting its work force.
Has that impacted yours or do you think it will impact [technical difficulty]? Yes so I'll ask Tom to speak on that.
It was reported that Biogen might cut about 800 heads in Cambridge in Eastern Massachusetts.
Recall they lease or own about 1 million square feet in Kendall Square and they lease about 350 000 square feet in Weston 128 which is 50% subleased to another company.
But we see no evidence that that's relatively small layoff in terms of the total headcount and space occupancy is going to impact Kendall Square at all.
That may impact their future need for space here in the short-to-medium term but certainly they're not abandoning space that they have.
And we own their headquarters building together with TIA so that were in great shape of that building.
Our next question comes from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So you had commented that when you chose bluebird there were several biotech companies that opted for bluebird.
Can you just talk about across your major market how many types of conversations like that you're having like when you have a space the multiples of tenants that are interested in that space? I think it's very common.
I mean both Steve and Tom can give you color on that but I think in virtually every case these days there are multiple users for the same space and obviously timing rental rate quality of tenant and a whole lot of things factor into that.
We do we have more demand than we have supplies certainly in the market.
We're tracking 22 different tenants in excess of 100 000 square feet in San Francisco alone and then another 6 million square feet of demand in the Greater Stanford area.
So we are being very selective.
And we do have a number of options that we choose from when we're selecting these tenants.
As Joel mentioned we did have multiple parties pursuing the space that we ended up selecting bluebird for.
We have multiple parties looking at the remaining space at 100 Binney where we're working to do some additional leasing on our remaining 180 000 or so square feet which delivers in late calendar '17 so its not uncommon at all for us to have multiple prospects and we're managing carefully to try to optimize our tenanted growth.
And so those three tenants I assume that's who you're talking to for some of the other space? One of them yes.
They're all three public.
One is an existing tenant while two were existing tenants and one is not but the answer is yes.
And then can you talk about I think in the supplemental there's still no total cost projection for 400 Dexter or 100 Binney.
Can you talk about what those final cost on those and why it's not in here? Jamie what we try to do is as soon as we announce the new development to give as much information that's available at the time new projects commence.
Occasionally 400 Dexter as an example is going through a few different iterations but we do have a general sense of where we're going to fall out.
But until we feel comfortable that the disclosures will be final we prefer to wait until some of the moving pieces are resolved.
I can tell you that generally speaking I think in Cambridge we're probably looking roughly high level $900 a foot all-in at completion on 50 and 60 as an example.
As a baseline there is some different attributes in 100 Binney.
And as we round out our budget we'll disclose both the cost of completions and the returns but I would say that you should keep in mind the returns are going to be very similar directionally with 50 and 60 Binney.
And again I gave you overall returns for all these projects that are delivering in '16 '17 and '18 and its just north of 7%.
So I hope that gives you some comfort that we're building solid projects and we'll provide these disclosures in the near term.
So you said $900 per square foot in Cambridge what about in Seattle? Let me not comment specifically because it may not be applicable to that project right now but suffice to say Jamie that our overall average yields on a cash basis are just north of 7%.
But I'm saying cost per foot? I know.
Well if we were prepared to disclose that Jamie we would have put it in the sub.
So let us refine the budget and when we're prepared to provide that disclosure we will.
But it falls right down the fairway from a yield perspective.
And then I guess just thinking about next year do you think your same-store NOI would be higher or lower than what we've seen in '15 based on what you have coming up? Well Jamie I think the way we'd like the community to think about same property performance I think over a long term cash same property performance is probably averaged about 5%.
And I think the way you build up to that number is keep in mind you've got triple rent leases that would drive stable cash flows but you've got annual escalations that are approaching 3% embedded in our leases.
So your cash NOI will grow close to 3%.
You're marking-to-market roughly and I'm going to use simple math for the next step roughly 10% of the portfolio being mark-to-market.
And we're marking that close to 10% right now.
So you get 1% drop and down to NOI on top of the 3% of the annual escalations.
And then you've got the opportunity to early renew.
And if you look at the leasing activity the leasing activity is easily 2x the expirations.
And so we are getting ahead and capturing some rental growth call it somewhere between 1% to 3%.
Dropping to NOI 3% would be just a home run year.
But if you pick up 1% to 2% now you built up a 5% to 6% base cash same property NOI performance.
I don't want to get into guidance for 2016 which we'll do in December but I think overall core performance is going to be very solid for '16.
Our next question comes from Sheila McGrath with Evercore.
Joel I was wondering if you could help us understand for newer companies like bluebird or Pinterest or Stripe do you underwrite such that the development yields would be a little bit higher or higher rent for these newer tenants or do you charge the same as strong pharma credit pharma tenant? Yes.
I think that depends on the -- and I'll ask Tom and Steve to comment.
I think it depends a lot on the particular building the particular rental rate in the situation their particular program because every tenant and every lease is actually different.
It isn't vanilla like there is three vanilla choices and they're all pretty similar.
They're actually somewhat different in each respect but I'll ask these guys to give you kind of an on the ground comment.
I think as Joel said each of these transaction is different.
So it's really hard you really can't compare them as if they're vanilla deals.
There's always a nuance to them.
And sometimes for example even a more creditworthy company we maybe able to get them to pay more because of the particular situation that they are in with respect to that particular deal.
So I wouldn't say that there is any -- that you could consistently assume that we get more money from a tenant who might be less creditworthy than another tenant that might have been a candidate for the space.
I mean it really comes down to specifics of the negotiation and the transaction.
And certainly security deposit is different.
But Steve you could? Yes just to add to that Sheila it is just a very dynamic environment.
The tenants are moving very quickly to lockdown space.
So I think what's really important when you step back is really the tenant underwriting and how we go about valuing the companies and looking at their long-term tenancy and partnership in the building with them.
So that's where we really focus our attention.
Joel also you have a well leased development pipeline for '16 '17 '18 should we assume that you're remaining patient on other land development opportunities or because you have it enough on the plate right now are or you in the market looking for additional development opportunities? Yes I think in my prepared comments Sheila I mentioned that any new developments we'd be looking at pretty carefully.
We've got the 1.5 million square feet that Dean mentioned on Page 35 and the 1.8 million on Page 36.
That's a pretty robust pipeline for '16 '17 and '18.
I think there are opportunities that will come to us whether they come through current campuses for example in San Diego or other locations.
And certainly in New York we're in discussions on the new building.
But I wouldn't say anything.
We're not looking at kicking off anything imminently at all.
And anything we do we'd be mindful of the macro market environment and then obviously the demand in the market and then just our overall cash usage for that particular year so it's kind of a complex equation there that we look at.
One last quick one just on construction cost.
Any worry that construction costs or labor moving higher -- labor cost? Certainly New York is a big worry.
I think today we're very fortunate when we kicked off the West Tower back at the kind of the end of '12 and early '13 we had a really great price point in the New York market.
Today I don't think that would be true.
So that's certainly an important factor.
And again Dan and Tom and Steve can comment on pricing.
Up till now I think rental rate increases have outstripped construction price increases but it's something to pay attention to.
Yes we're seeing some pressure on some construction material particularly glazing.
That has kind of been offset by savings and structural steel due to Chinese sort of drop off in usage.
So on balance we're cautious.
We're trying to really primarily focus on some of these long lead items to be able to lock that in today.
But we don't think it's a super material impact but I don't know how you guys feel in your markets.
I'd say that we've got major projects underway where we've done a vast majority of the buyout in prior months.
So I think we feel very comfortable.
As Joe was saying that the rental rate increases that we experienced in the market certainly outstripped the construction price increases that we were seeing when we were buying out these jobs.
But we do watch it very carefully.
Curtain wall as Dan mentioned is a tough trade right now.
There is so many projects going vertical in the eastern cities with curtain wall so it's tough but we've got that well managed on our projects in Cambridge.
I think we're seeing pricing pressure from subcontractors.
I think they're very busy in the Bay area in particular with both the residential and life science and technology construction under the way.
What we do though for each of these projects especially as we get into '17 and '18 deliveries is have a very clear annual escalation in construction pricing.
So that is well baked into their pro formas and the anticipated yields so we don't think we'll be surprised beyond what we've already got already baked in.
Our next question comes from Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Dean you mentioned that on a long term average on same-store I know you don't want to get into 2016 guidance but do you think that the 8% to 10% re-leasing spreads that you've been getting -- you're guiding to this year is a sustainable number for the next couple of years or you kind of see that it kind of trailing down based on where the re-leasing is going to be happening in future years? I think Rich what's important to keep in mind on leasing performance at least going out for the next 12 months is that we are dealing with some of the best buildings in the best locations in very very supply constraint markets.
And so we're in a good environment where the best most innovative companies are looking to be in the best facilities in the best markets.
And I would think that leasing activity is going to remain very robust going out for the next 12 months.
And I would not be surprised to find guidance following fairly close to our expectations for '15.
The reason I ask you is I'm looking at '16 expirations and you have Research Triangle Canada Maryland whereas this year it was San Francisco if I'm reading this right.
So just wondering if the geographical footprint will play a role? Well it's a little bit of that but you also have to keep in mind that the leasing activity in a given year also benefits from renewals that you can't identify from the supplemental which is I'd believe Page 24 which shows our expirations down by category.
And that's also an important driver so getting ahead of some expirations that are beyond '16 will also contribute.
I would say the big picture the market drivers are fairly obvious that the two top markets are big drivers of leasing activity but I think the top five all contribute very nicely to '16.
You mentioned and I understood the roadmap to funding development and you kind of got it covered so to speak to $500 million but are there any situations that you see where the funding of development would meaningfully exceed $500 million in any of the next couple of years? Well that's kind of been true this year and it's been true last year and possibly the year before so I think it's safe to say that it will.
And we do have a fairly robust pipeline.
So yes Rich it will exceed that.
I mean I'm looking at the guidance and it's in the $500 million to $600 million range right for development spending this year? Yes.
And it's important to keep in mind the strategy that we've used over the last call it five years.
And our approach going forward is going to be very consistent with that.
We want to minimize the consumption of common equity to the extent possible and focus on asset sales in an environment when private market valuations are attractive capital.
If you had a choice between the two and you had to make a choice would it be FFO growth or NAV growth as a guiding strategy? I would say first NAV but we can't ignore the investors that do focus on FFO.
I think their bottomline both important but we're not wed to one or the other in particular.
We're looking for a long term -- decisions for the long-term that will drive both of those metrics but more importantly hopefully total return performance.
And then last question maybe for Joel.
Do you have any comment about the BioMed deal? I think it's a very good positive for them.
The truth be known analyst like you guys followed both of us but in most of the submarkets that we're in we actually virtually don't compete with them outside of some assets in Cambridge.
Seattle very little competition; in San Francisco very little competition; San Diego even though they're based there it hasn't been a lot of competition.
And New York not the same thing so as a macro company yes but on a submarket basis.
But I think it's a positive for them.
And do you think it could result in some activity coming your way vis-à-vis Blackstone or is it too early to say? You mean assets that we might be interested in? Yes.
Yes I could say publicly we have no interest in any other onsets.
Our next question comes from Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Just kind of a similar question to one that Rich asked but a little bit differently.
Joel if we have entered a period of significantly weaker capital formation are there any geographic markets in which Alexandria has a presence which are likely to be more affected than others? That's a tough question to answer because number one we're as you know very highly leased both in our operating portfolio and then the development and redevelopment side.
Each market is different.
Seattle tends to be tech and institutional.
San Francisco tends to be biotech pharma and tech.
San Diego tends to be more biotech and pharma.
Maryland has been kind of a broad-base of different of companies lot of service companies and things.
Research Triangle is turning out to be an ag tech Mecca.
New York we just landed Nestle their skincare group.
And Lilly up for another building but it seems broad-based in the life science area and then Cambridge is heavily biotech pharma and tech.
So each market really has its own dynamic but at the moment we haven't seen any dramatic change in any specific market that I could give you but I try to characterize what we're seeing on the ground.
There are some tenants that because of lack of availability are sometimes giving up expansion or just looking maybe at different locations.
But at the moment I'm not sure I could give you anything specific.
And it would sound like and I don't mean to put words into your mouth but what's happened over the last 90 days does not appear to really have had an impact in terms of your disposition strategy? No.
not at all but I do think that people are paying attention to the capital markets.
Obviously pharma doesn't need to because they don't finance through the capital markets.
Big tech also doesn't so much finance through the big capital markets but obviously the private guys on the private side in tech and obviously the biotech market are focused on the capital markets.
So people are paying attention to the shift that's happened over the past couple of months.
There is no question about just board room talk.
And then final one from me.
Alexandria has been selective investors in private funding rounds for various companies at early stages and you've been through a few cycles.
Can you characterize the slowdown in activity over the last 90 days? Has it stopped or slowed materially? And if you have a guesstimate on where it's going to go in the next 12 months? So that's an interesting question and the answer is it has not slowed down appreciably at all.
We tend to like big idea companies big platforms multiple shots on goal with products great management teams great syndicates.
And I would say we have not seen any slow down in the pace of new opportunities that have been presented to us at all believe it or not.
What is slowing down is the exit of the pipeline not ours but the biotech pipeline having gotten through that really high quality companies.
There are some companies that haven't been able to get out but there is also a new crop of pretty high quality companies that I think you probably see a file either have done seven filings or will be filling ahead of JPMorgan Healthcare.
So I think you'll see a pick up in that but we've not seen a slow down on the private investment on the biotech side at all.
Our next question comes from Kevin Tyler with Green Street Advisors.
A high-level one for you Joel tying back to your opening comments.
You talked about a sentiment shift and not really a fundamental shift towards the sector biotech sector.
But how does the fundamental shift if there is one affect the MITs NYUs data farmers the more academic government-based tenants that are in your stable? Well I think the budget deal that appears worked out between the Republicans and the Democrats and it looks like both houses will be on board and ultimately the President is on board I believe.
I think it will be a net positive for the institutional side of things a bit providing incrementally about $1 billion to $2 billion more annually to the NIH.
Tom can comment on the ground but I think one thing that surprised us and I think we said it on past calls is the slowdown in institutional activity like in Longwood whereas Cambridge has been on fire.
And a lot of Cambridge tenants won't go to Longwood.
It kind of surprised us there hasn't been more activity.
Just to echo what Joel said I mean we expected more growth and more demand out of the Harvard affiliated Longwood institutions where we're at about 63% leased I think on that asset.
And we've got some groups kicking around but not really moving very swiftly on the remaining 150 000 square feet or so that we have to lease there.
We're hopeful that this potential budget deal that Congress is talking about could result in some additional NIH funding and instigate some additional activity.
The other area where funding comes to these institutions commonly is through philanthropy.
And there are some potential demand drivers from some foundation groups that are looking to invest over there but we haven't seen any real estate activity out of that yet.
And then your guidance Dean suggested you're not really planning much more in a way of acquisitions for the current year.
I was wondering if that's based more on a change in cost to capital of both more on development at the current time or perhaps just more color or insight into the state of deal pricing currently in the market? So maybe let me just comment.
I think if you go back to our total acquisitions for the year at the beginning of the year we probably couldn't have told you that this was the array of acquisitions we would be pursuing.
The MIT acquisition as we mentioned came up really quite by circumstance.
The deal that Dan executed with Qualcomm and re-tenanting that building with Lilly again came to market kind of serendipitously and it presented a great opportunity to expand our campus.
But months before that we didn't have any idea of planning for it.
So I think our primary external growth platform has been focused on development so we haven't really been focused on some kind of benchmark for acquisition.
And I think that's probably true of without getting into guidance for 2016.
I think that's probably true of 2016 as well.
The last one I had just can you give us any insight into the inquiry that you may have received from other institutions interested in your properties.
So I guess hence eventually your sales or dispositions.
But has it increased at all since the BioMed news has surfaced? Well I'm not sure.
We did a pretty methodical set of meetings back about a year-and-a-half ago when originally looking potentially for a JV partner on some developments which morphed into a different kind of an approach.
And I would say I personally did like 15 or 16 101s.
And I think virtually every single group we met with all brand names expressed high-levels of interest for the quality of the location quality of asset quality of management and quality of tenancy.
And I think even today we still do have a number of people that do approach us about getting involved in whether it's an asset sale or potentially partnering on development.
So that's kind of ongoing.
I don't know that the Blackstone deal either increased or somehow hastened it.
I think it's been pretty consistent over the last two years since we've been kind of moving in that direction.
Our next question comes from Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Maybe for Tom or Steve I wanted to follow-up on earlier question particularly regarding any pushback you're seeing in Cambridge or San Francisco on rent levels.
And I'm thinking particularly from biotech or pharma companies that are just getting priced out from some of the more tech office heavy dense users of space.
I mean are you seeing that in the market or is it just that many more tenants in the tech side taking space than on the lab side today? No not necessarily.
We are actually seeing that converse.
The tenants really want to be in these locations.
It's kind of an essential must have business imperative for the life science tenants in Mission Bay to be surrounding UCSF for the technology tenants be in the Mission Bay/SoMa cluster.
And so to the extent rents have risen to the price level they're at they are sustainable they are acceptable.
And we've seen just the opposite that the tenants are really prioritizing location over some potential price sensitivity right now at this level.
Yes David in Cambridge as you know much more of the demand that we've seen there has been on the life science side but it's been both lab and office space much more of the recent growth both lab and office space.
And look I think there certainly are some younger companies who are getting queasy at the rental rates and are looking elsewhere.
But as I said we've got multiple parties looking at the remaining space that we have.
We have multiple parties looking at that 60 Binney when we transact with the bluebird deal.
We have multiple parties looking at 100 Binney.
So we're not seeing a great -- we're not seeing people withdraw from the location because of pricing.
Also in those locations it's a fundamental question of recruitment and retention too that really underlies that.
And that's almost like a cost of doing business as opposed to just a rent number.
And maybe with regard to Joel or Dan's on the phone too the redevelopment pipeline I think is about 525 000 square feet plus or minus.
It looks like some of that is going to go from lab to more tech office.
Can you talk about the returns on that? And then I guess the second part of that is do you see more assets kind of moving into the redevelopment bucket over the next year or so? So I'll have Dean comment it for the moment.
So I guess the redevelopment I mean the bulk of -- the biggest project you have disclosed are there.
The other two aren't quite as large.
But you have $240 million roughly at completion on Campus Point which is probably the largest project there.
Again going from an office to a lab and so all these are in a pretty good shape.
We're working on lease up of 11 Hurley and 9625 just a bit -- I'm sorry 11 Hurley is under negotiation; 9625 we're working on.
But it's just premature to talk about the status of those negotiations but we do have ongoing negotiations.
Again I think the overall returns are going to fall on average here 7%-plus on the initial cash yields.
As far as the future pipeline we do have a little bit that's disclosed in the supplemental and the expiration schedules.
That's potential but it's pretty small.
So I don't see anything in the portfolio today that represents a redevelopment over the next call it year or two.
So again just to be clear the Campus Point acquisition is going from office to lab.
Hurley is going from whatever was before to a lab.
It looks like we have a deal for that whole building.
And then 9625 we're not certain it could go lab or it could go office but that's remains to be same.
And we have a follow-up question from Manny Korchman with Citi.
It's Michael Bilerman with Manny.
Joel I take it when the proxy comes out for BioMed we will not see a REIT then in any of the disclosure given your comments? We won't see a what? A REIT we won't see a company Alexandria mentioned in there? I don't think so.
Dean and I'm sure you probably have this at your fingertips just thinking about debt-to-EBITDA as you're going to embark on this fixed income unsecured issuance I'm sure the fixed-income investors are going to look at your 3Q numbers on an annualized basis.
They'll back out the securities gains they'll back out the FAS income and they'll get to 7.9x debt-to-EBITDA and they're going to ask you if you have a target -- I'm not so sure about that.
Well they may.
I don't know.
Because they tend to be -- in fact they tend to be -- That's fuzzy math Mike.
Well it's not fuzzy math.
I mean they are going to -- see they're not going to annualized securities gains right? I think they're going to look at what our target is at yearend and is it achievable.
Correct.
Yes.
And that's where I was going right because maybe you can in getting there you got $600 million of sales $300 million that are done $300 million that are in the works.
You also have $200 million of construction spend offset by $30 million of free cash flow.
You get to 7x but that doesn't take into account the lost EBITDA right.
The debt balance at the end of the year is going to be lower because you have $600 million of sales but you'll still be earning income on most of the assets so there will be a slight tick back up.
So maybe you can just bucket getting into 2016 getting down to that 6.5 target the EBITDA from all of the development and redevelopment how much is coming online next year versus the incremental capital spend that you will have in furthering the development pipeline for the '17 and '18 starts.
And then what is the plug effectively if any in terms of sales to get you to the right 6.5? So Michael just to clarify I mean part of my comments during the prepared section of the call was really focus on less quarter-to-quarter variations and metrics which we all know are tend to be volatile versus more long-term metrics and we are going to hit 6.9% by the end of this year.
And once we get beyond '15 we will start to migrate closer to 6.5.
There is no expectation for us to hit it in 2016 just to be clear but we will make the move towards that over the couple of years following 2015.
There is a lot of moving parts as you've highlighted in our business because we have a tremendous pipeline of development opportunities that are highly leased but we have a very disciplined approach in funding that as I outlined in our prepared comments.
And so we'll provide as much color I think that makes sense at Investor Day to help investors navigate or at least follow our path on leverage but beyond leverage our overall goal that we want to accomplish in 2016.
So I don't think anybody will find it a mystery for us to maintain leverage sub-7 as we go into '16 and then continue that downward on average over the next two years.
And how much NOI do you have lost in the fourth quarter from the $600 million of sales? So if that $600 million is call it about a 4.6 cap so about $28 million of annualized NOI how much are you suffering from a dilution standpoint in the fourth quarter in your guidance? Well Michael why don't we wrap up the fourth quarter because we do have $600 million of dispositions; half is under contract the other half is not yet and so the timing of those transactions are still pending.
But you're right there will be EBITDA loss through the dispositions but you're talking about very low cap rate transactions on average which is attractive capital that's funding our business and because it's a low cap rate overall average disposition for the fourth quarter it is attractive from a replacement to common equity.
And so I think we're making as you probably can appreciate the math works out from the ability for us to replace the need for common equity in a manner that is cheaper.
And we had the need to raise the equivalent of whatever the equity proceeds of that $600 million was Michel in common equity.
It probably would have resulted in even more dilution because it would had a higher cost of capital apply to that.
Just lastly on the security sales.
If I go back to last quarter at least a lot of the conversation was of this $225 million of projected remaining asset sales.
At least I was led to believe that a majority of that would have been the public securities that were sitting on your books.
It sounds like the sales in the third quarter perhaps were only about $30 million if it had the same book-to-gain ratio and doesn't appear as though there's anything set for the fourth quarter.
So had there been a change in the way that you're looking at liquidating the securities book at all? No.
Not at all Michael.
I think my commentary over the last two quarters at least the last quarter if not the prior to that had indicated that it would probably take time for us to monetize the gains partly because some of its locked up for a period of time.
So there wasn't any expectation of an immediate monetization of it.
I think you'll see us continue to monetize some of those gains as we look at over the next 12 to 24 months but we feel really comfortable with -- these are very short list of companies that generate the $100 million-plus of unrealized gains and they are solid company.
So we're not concerned about the gains vaporizing overnight but we do plan to monetize some of them.
And I guess you'll put that back in the sup next quarter in terms of the sales proceeds so that we can track it a little bit that would be helpful.
Yes we can definitely help you guys with that disclosure.
It will be in the Q but at least for the supplemental it would be good to have? It's been relatively small so we haven't really highlighted it much Michael but we can think about that.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you very much.
We're five minutes over but we appreciate that and we look forward to talking to everybody on the fourth quarter and yearend call.
Thanks everybody.
This does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Pauline and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Paula Schwartz Rx Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
The company's actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Joel Marcus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Paula and welcome everybody to the fourth quarter and year end 2015 call.
With me today are Dean Shigenaga Peter Moglia Tom Andrews Steve Richardson and Dan Ryan.
I wanted to first of all start off with really huge kudos to the entire ARE family for an excellent fourth quarter and year end 2015.
I think the results and accomplishments are highlighted well in our press release and in the supp and they really speak for themselves.
But on the other hand we actually mourn the loss of an Alexandria's family member Jeff Newton who passed over the last week or so and will be sorely missed in the family.
Moving to the core and Dean will highlight some of this we had strong fourth quarter and year end 2015 results and I think evidenced by the strong continuing guidance of our core for 2016.
I think it's important to keep in mind we have a very high quality tenant base which provides stability in a volatile market which we're clearly in.
54% of our ABR is generated by investment grade tenants and 81% of our ABR is generated by our investment grade tenants from our top 20 generating almost half the ABR.
For the top 20 we have 8.3 years of average lease duration which gives us a nice long run-rate almost half of our annual base rent.
We also have a strong and diversified tenant base with only 3% exposure to really pure office or tech office on our operating properties.
And 20% of our ABR is from the San Francisco region which has got a lot of headline news these days but we are happy to say in our three strong sub-markets we're 100% occupied and we have very limited rollover this year of about 120 000 feet and below market expiring rent.
So I think we are well-positioned.
On the leasing side on our operating assets we have a very manageable 1.2 million square feet rolling this year which is about 7.6% of the operating asset base.
32% or almost 400 000 square feet is already been released.
And our largest block is about 125 000 at Campus Point when Lilly vacates San Diego on asset high quality space.
On the development side regarding leasing of our 2016 deliveries 89% is leased 91% leased during negotiation.
We expect New York to become fully leased in the not too distant future.
Longwood which is our joint venture remains at about 63% but we expect with the $2 billion in the NIH funding that should help increase academic demand in that sub-market.
And we look for multi-tenant users to populate the rest of the science project in San Diego which is about 81%.
So of the 2016 deliveries 1.5 million square feet add a average cash yield initial cash yield of 7 plus.
We feel that we are in very good position and we’ve got approximately $75 million to $80 million as you know from the supplement of addition NOI to onboard.
With respect to the 2017 and 2018 deliveries we're 67% leased and 87% leased or under negotiation.
At 100 Binney we did have 1 floor lease request by an important tenant that actually now has been terminated.
So lease of with 5 floors we have 2 floors under active negotiations and several parties are discussing the remaining 3 floors and we look forward to resolving that in this year for sure.
At 400 Dexter the remaining 34% is expected to be picked up by Juno for hard options they have and if for some reasons they didn't lease it we actually have demand today that would take that space.
Our two new projects 9625 Town Center we have 7 potential tenants looking at space there.
And 10151 Barnes Canyon we have 3 potential tenants looking at space there.
On the tech side our largest tech tenant is Alphabet which was up something like 5% today.
They remain the anchor in our Mountain View project.
Total ABR on tech today is less than 3%.
I think it's important to note that really the financial model of the strong private tech company is really shifting from building platform to profitability and I think that's a good thing.
On the life science side we see strong continuing R&amp;D numbers $100 plus billion generated by or to be invested this year by both pharma and biotech which are not generally capital market dependent other than at the venture level for the smaller tenants.
The NIH is receiving an increase of 2 billion and I guess the President announced the Cancer Moonshot which may generate another billion if you can get that through Congress this year.
With respect to the center for medicate services the projections through 2024 show based on all we know today.
And the predicted assumptions that the rate of increase in drug prices will roughly be in-line with the rate of increases in overall healthcare.
Medicines after all certainly help to prevent disease in many cases treat disease and avoid much higher cost downstream.
Some drugs are costly but treatment of disease is a lot more expensive.
Innovative treatments for diseases where there are few other options will still continue to command a solid pricing and innovative drugs that cure disease are clearly not the enemy as the political storm is out there.
They really are the solution I expect that after the election this will essentially die down and it will become much more of an outcomes will bear more on pricing.
The longer and healthier life will command higher pricing.
And where you can prove offset to future healthcare expenses which is in many the cases again strong pricing will be expected.
Part of the problem also is that you can't - drug manufacturers can't really discuss what payers information about our products before they're approved under current FDA guidelines and so there may need to be some further looking at that issue because that would help I think start to - view this pricing discussion.
By our demand for our ARE core assets as you can see from the press release and supplement is strong.
We expect to tap this market with land sale and non-core assets sales during 2016 as well.
On the balance sheet we've guided to leverage between 65 and 69.
So moving downward nicely for the end of 2016.
For 2015 we maintained our strategic optionality with respect to the balance sheet and continue to manage our leverage down with our goal to get an investment grade rating upgrade overtime.
As I said at Investor Day generally we don't want to issue common equity below net asset value but as we are negotiating the partial interest sale of 499 Illinois we were able to really run across a great opportunity to sell some common equity in the fourth quarter without lowering either 2015 or 2016 per share earnings and that was an awfully nice thing.
And at the same time we are able to decrease the proceeds needed from the partial interest sale from the buyer Illinois so all good results.
Page 49 of the supplemental disclosure on investments evidenced continuing solid built-in- gains on our investment portfolio.
And we executed some very good sales with good gains in December.
And with that let me turn it over to Dean.
Thanks Joel.
Dean Shigenaga here.
Good afternoon everybody.
I've got three important topics.
First is I want to highlight our strong results for 2015 and briefly comment on same property performance.
Second I want to highlight a few key points on the significant value realized through the sales of partial interest in three core Class A assets.
And third I want to cover our funding strategy and prudent management of our balance sheet.
We've got about $2 billion of liquidity very limited maturities and an improving credit profile.
First on our strong results for 2015.
The fourth quarter and the full year of '15 we reported FFO per diluted share of a $1.33 and $5.25 respectively and in line with the latest consensus estimates.
Importantly our FFO per share for 2015 of $5.25 represented 9.4% growth over 2014 and our second consecutive year of FFO per share growth of over 9%.
Same property NOI growth for 2015 was 1.3% and 4.7% on a GAAP and cash basis respectively.
And relatively in line with our solid 10-year average same property NOI growth of approximately 2% on a GAAP basis and 5% on a cash basis.
Our same property NOI growth for the fourth quarter was 1.3% on a GAAP basis 2% on a cash basis and was lower than our run rate due to a couple of non-recurring items.
On a recurring basis same property NOI growth for the fourth quarter would have been about 1.8% on a GAAP basis and 3.9% on a cash basis.
This growth is more consistent with our 10-year average of same property growth and relatively inline with our very solid same property growth projected for 2016 in a range from 2% to 4% on a GAAP basis and a range from 3.5% to 5.5% on a cash basis.
Occupancy was strong at 97.2% as of year-end and overall occupancy is expected to remain strong in 2016 due to the solid demand and lack of supply of Class A space in our core urban markets.
While we do expect overall occupancy to remain solid we also expect to temporary decline in occupancy in San Diego and Research Triangle Park which are both expected to be offset by occupancy gains in other markets primarily greater Boston.
In San Diego in the first quarter of '16 we have two spaces that will be temporarily vacant at ARE Nautilus and 3985 Sorrento Valley which aggregate about 60 000 rentable square feet related to two tenants that expanded in the larger spaces.
Also in Research Triangle Park in the first quarter we expect to receive back about 20 000 rentable square feet that is relatively lower-rent space generating about annual cash rents of about $225 000 per year.
Again overall occupancy is expected to remain strong and in line with 2015 year end occupancy of 97.2%.
Quickly on our JV transactions the sales of partial interest in three core Class A assets really highlighted the significant value creation we were generating from our development of Class A facilities and key urban innovation clusters.
The value we've created on a 100% of these assets was almost $250 million.
The margins on the sales ranged up to almost 60% on 225 Binney Street which as you know is a grand up development project under the long-term lease to Biogen.
Each of these sales involved unencumbered properties and therefore each sale generated more equity capital than a typical sale of real estate subject to the secured mortgage.
The aggregate sales price of these three transactions is approximately $453 million.
The proceeds resulted initially in reduction of debt with about two thirds of the sales of price or approximately $300 million representing attractive cost of the efficient equity capital to fund our highly leased value creation growth pipeline.
Moving on to our discipline management of balance sheet and our funding strategy we continue to execute on our strategy with the disciplined management of our balance sheet.
Our ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter annualized was 6.6x excluding $7.7 million of investment gains in the fourth quarter and leverage was 6.9x.
Timing of dispositions and deliveries of highly-leased development projects will also impact the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA and we typically do not adjust for these partial quarter events since they occur from time to time.
We remain focused on continuing improvement in our ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA with normal variances quarter-to-quarter during the year.
Specifically for 2016 we expect the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA to increase in the first half of '16 then decrease in the second half as we complete and place in the service approximately $1.5 million square feet of highly-leased development and redevelopment projects.
Our range for the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter annualized -- fourth quarter '16 annualized is the range from 6.5x to 6.9x.
Ultimately our leverage goal remains to be less than six times which will also improve our overall credit rating and reduce our long-term cost of capital.
Our liquidity as of year-end was approximately $2 billion.
This liquidity allows us to be patient and flexible in the timing of the issuance of senior unsecured notes.
Additionally we have very limited debt maturities in 2016 2017 and 2018.
Additional liquidity is anticipated as we finalize the construction loan for 100 Binney Street in the low $300 million range over the next few months.
During the first half of '16 we anticipate amending our $1.5 billion senior unsecured line of credit and our 2019 senior unsecured term loan.
The amendment will focus primarily on extending the maturity date of each facility from 2019 to 2021 which will ultimately further extend our weighted average maturity of our outstanding debt.
During the fourth quarter we raised approximately $75 million at about $90 per share under our ATM program leaving approximately $375 million available while $90 per share is a below consensus NAV.
We believe the blended cost or long-term capital we selected to fund our highly-leased development pipeline will generate significant value.
Overall our strategy is to remain disciplined and funding growth through our highly-leased development pipeline with various sources of long-term capital.
In November 2015 we completed our offering of senior unsecured notes.
These notes bear interest at 4.3% and matures in 2026.
Again balance sheet liquidity provided us the ability to be patient and flexible for the appropriate window to execute a solid issuance of unsecured notes.
Briefly on sources and uses of capital as detailed on Page 3 of our supplemental package we have complete disclosures on sources and uses for 2016.
We updated our construction spend for 2016 resulting in a decrease of $100 million at the mid-point of our guidance.
The overall decrease was driven by approximately dozen projects as our team refine budgets timing of spend and favorably reduce the scope of certain projects.
We also updated our disclosures to provide more visibility into internally-generated sources of capital representing 44% of our projected uses for construction.
The 44% or $375 million consist of cash flows from operating activities after dividends of about 125 million plus 250 million of debt funding from growth in EBITDA.
As of December 31 2015 we had one small R&amp;D building located in Maryland classified as held for sale.
While we have dispositions targeted in our 2016 guidance no additional assets met the criteria for classification as held for sale.
We do expect to provide additional color on specific dispositions in the next quarter or so.
But keep in mind we just closed on dispositions aggregating almost 600 million in 2015 with about 84% of this completed in the fourth quarter.
There is still significant capital looking to invest in high quality core assets and gateway cities.
These locations provide great long term value.
These locations are also highly sought after since it's difficult for real estate investors to reach their desired investment allocation into key gateway cities.
Lastly on guidance and closing the detailed assumptions underline our guidance for 2016 are included on Page 3 of our supplemental package.
We believe we are well positioned with a high quality asset base of Class A assets in AAA locations that attract high quality and innovative entities.
54% of our total ABR is from investment grade rate attendants again a REIT industry leading statistic.
We have a favorable triple net lease structure with annual rent escalations which combined with our high quality tenancy drive solid and increasing cash flows.
We are one of the most visible multiyear highly leased development pipelines that will generate about 180 million to 190 million in incremental annual NOI and we will continue our disciplined approach to fund in our value creation pipeline with a combination f long term capital including significant internal sources of capital.
Growth in cash flows from the completion of our development pipeline and disciplined management of our balance sheet will drive further improvement in our credit profile including a reduction in net debt to adjusted EBITDA to less than 6 times ultimately improving our long term costs to capital.
We believe we have the right assets in the right locations that will inspire productivity efficiency and creativity and success from our highly innovative client tenants.
Our team remains focused on continuing to build the best-in-class franchise.
With that I will turn it back to Joel.
We'll open it up for Q&amp;A please.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to Manny Korchman with Citi.
When you sat down and said we think in ATM's and appropriate sort of – raise some equity right now how did you come up with the $75 million sort of sum given that you had a significant amount of capital that you were going to have t raise this year.
Was it a matter of whether the stock was trading or was there some other magic there $75 million number? Manny I would say overall our capital plan is fairly fluid throughout the year and we remain flexible in our execution at any given point in time.
I would say that facts and circumstances that we were looking at at that point in time drew us through the conclusion with a variety of matters that we were considering.
I guess it’s also fair to say if you look back with hindsight today it’s easy to say that you would have raised more capital but that’s hindsight 2020 vision so.
And then just in terms of disclosure just wondering why you guys sort of limited the amount of disclosure giving on future development projects.
In the past year you'd given at least a book value breakdown and sort of a list of deeper list of projects now you have condensed that.
Are you refereeing to future land opportunities? Yes exactly.
We didn’t intend to delete any meaningful information.
As you know Manny one of the best disclosure packages in the industry if there’s information you find useful we can definitely look at adding that disclosures that you find relevant so we will take a look at that for next quarter.
That's it for me for today.
Thanks guys.
Moving on we'll go to Sheila McGrath with Evercore ISI.
Good afternoon.
Joel the construction spend in 2016 looks down by 100 million I was wondering if you could give us some insight where those savings are coming from? Sheila no real magic there then in fact when we have a pipeline as robust as we have when we have the chance quarter-to-quarter we take a deep dive and as these projects - look at the deliveries for '17 and '18 were on the front end of those projects.
So diving deep into the timing of spend over roughly a two year timeframe has allowed us to adjust downward some of the - initially projected spend that would have been incurred in 2016.
And then we also had a number of projects where the scope was refined based on the requirements that are looking at the project.
And so we think the landlord dollars going into the project will be meaningfully less and the tenant will take the space with less dollars going in.
Okay great.
And then on the sale of the investments in the fourth quarter either that was a good surprise in terms of using those funds for the development how should we think about that other investment bucket as a source of proceeds to monetize for the development in 2016? Well I would say Sheila the thing to think about here with the equity securities that we have in primarily life science companies will continue to monetize our holdings because we have a tremendous amount of unrealized gains.
And the number that will probably generate from a proceeds perspective if I to guess today would probably be between north of $50 million in 2016 and ultimately what we monetize depends on future gains that might be realized from the private securities that we hold today as well.
Okay.
Last question Joel you mentioned at a 100 Binney at tenant changing - changing their mind on locating there.
Could you just talk about what the driver was at today go to a competitor building or did they re-think expansion? Yes that’s a sensitive question so let me ask Tom to answer it.
It didn’t go to a competitor building and I’d say current plan but - Yes there was a tenant that we negotiated - lot of intent to negotiate there - the anchor tenant of the building and they want to expand the exercised give us a notice that they are going to expand and before the - lease on them was executed they changed their mind and withdrew.
So it was an expansion of the existing anchor tenant building.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you.
You’ve talked about a target of leverage below six times can you just walk us through the past to get there and how long you think it would take? Well it’s not 2016 our ’16 guidance was 6.5 to 6.9 so it's definitely beyond ‘16 and a lot will depend Jamie as we make our way through 2016 but suffice to say that it’s a 2017 its post 2016 event.
Ultimately you got tremendous EBITDA growth being a primary factor our ability to recycle capital from the proceeds of property sales will also contribute but keep in mind our goal is to drive that end result which ultimately will improve our long term cost to capital so it's an important component of our strategy going forward.
So in your capital plan you talk about adding leverage to your growing EBITDA and what's your appetite to just avoid doing that and push leverage even lower in a faster timeframe? I don’t know that - well just to clarify something Jamie I think I heard we don’t expect to - our plan does not anticipate leverage going up other than normal quarter-to-quarter variations.
We are looking at on average driving leverage downward and below 6 over time.
So I meant just no adding more debt may be not your leverage level but if you don’t add incremental debt your leverage will go down and in your capital plan you talk about adding more debt against your growing EBITDA.
Do you think about just not adding more debt and that will get to the faster you are just very comfortable with this number by year end 2016? Yes I would say Jamie let’s focus on getting to the end of 2016.
It's not a matter of driving our business with no incremental debt I mean by definition with the EBITDA growth we have we can support the incremental debt without impacting leverage.
So what you’re talking about it taking the mix of overall capital sources and taking advantage of the factors that drive leverage down whether that’s saving some of the EBITDA growth to reduce leverage recycling a few more assets that will allow us to further reduce leverage.
We have a variety of leverage to actually pull the driver end result but it’s not something that we’re intending to execute on this year it’s something that over the next couple of years you’ll see us migrate in that direction and ultimately get exchange.
Okay thanks.
And then for Joel you had talked about the $2 billion of incremental funding in the NIH and then maybe the President plan.
When you talk to industry leaders and looking at that side of the coin and then you look at what’s happening with down BC funding at least in tech just can you maybe tell us on just the latest thought process among your largest tenants and clients and how they’re thinking about the world and their decision making? Well I think it’s important to remember that when you get to pharma and big biotech pretty good size publicly traded companies given our roster is heavy credit those guys are not dependent on the capital markets and honestly haven't been for a long time.
So the ups and downs in the capital markets don’t really influence their decision making and I think we’re still seeing a trend of moving from isolated silo locations to the core.
In fact I think somebody just sent a supplier Bristol-Myers who is our anchor tenant in 100 Binney is now selling their amazingly gorgeous campus at Wallingford Connecticut.
So I think pharma and bio are continuing to invest strongly.
You get 100 plus billion dollars this year in R&amp;D spend to a great host of great opportunities in cancer neuroscience and a range of other metabolic diseases et cetera.
So I don’t see that people haven’t looked at the market is interrupting that phase of R&amp;D spend.
And on the government side I think for the first time in a long time with the uptake of NIH we’re actually seeing way more demand be in Maryland as just one benchmark than there is supply available we haven’t seen that in maybe a decade.
So I think in general the outlook is stable and I think when it comes to companies that are going public we will know in the next day or so but there are four biotech IPOs right now ready to price one of which we’re involved with and I would say that assuming pricing goes well this could be the opening of the - selected opening of the biotech IPO market for 2016 because as you know there were no IPOs in January.
And I would also say that on the venture side don’t count out the phase of venture capital formation and investment.
We know about handful of companies or entities that are raising a large large funds this year I know personally several are heavily oversubscribed by institutional investors and so I think the capital formation for venture capital and life science will be pretty good this year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Moving on we’ll go to Dave Rodgers with Robert W.
Baird.
Joel just wanted to follow-up on that last comment a little bit.
I think in your guidance for the year $125 million was available for sale securities.
Maybe there was another attached to that too but how much of that comes out of either IPOs or some kind of capital transaction that you’re dependent on to monetize those investments this year? Hi David Dean here.
The question came up little bit earlier I think it’s for 2016 it’s probably fair to say we’ll probably have at least $50 million in proceeds from those securities.
That was the dependency part of it okay got it.
I guess with regard to 2016 Dean you made a comment earlier about where the stock is today or maybe Joel but at the Investor Day I thought you talked about maybe using more ATM in equity capital in the coming year but given where the stock is are you still feeling comfortable doing that in some of those other line items in your guidance sheet? I think the way to think about the ATM program and this is probably true not just for Alexandria but all companies and I think you'll all agree is that the ATM programs really represent a great tool that every REIT have in place.
And when appropriate it's prudent to use it because it's really cost effective.
The fees associated with it is fairly nominal.
It's generally 1% to 1.5%.
It needs to be used prudently.
And I would say that applies to Alexandria as well.
We will be very disciplined in how we execute raising capital to fund our business but keep in mind we've got a tremendous amount of growth in net asset value to generate in this high-leased development pipeline.
So we'll remain disciplined in how we execute that.
Okay.
On the accounting side how did you account for the asset sales in the fourth quarter? Were those all now taken off balance sheet? Just wanted to be clear on that.
Yeah.
That's a good question.
As some of you may know the consolidation rules today are little more complicated than they were 10 years ago.
The three joint ventures we executed on remain on balance sheet as consolidated JVs.
So they were accounted as a more of an equity or financing transaction.
So there is no GAAP gain associated with those transactions but we did take the proceeds.
The adjustment -- the amount is effectively the GAAP gain was booked through APEC not through earnings.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Saw that footnote.
Last question I guess for me maybe to Joel.
Construction is spending about $850 million at midpoint.
Two questions.
One how much of that is related to additional starts in 2016 or getting ready for additional starts? And I guess the second question is that how good do you feel today relative to 60 or 90 days ago about putting new shovels in the ground for new project? Thanks I think if you go back to Investor Day I think we said that we didn't have other than what we had in the pipeline at that point which included both the Town Center and the Barnes Canyon.
We didn't have any new projects in the pipeline to break ground on or to move forward because our pipeline right now is a pretty stellar pipeline and our focus is full lease up on both the '16 and the '17 '18.
So at the moment we don't have anything new in planning.
The only other project that we've talked is for Vertex down in San Diego.
Right.
And that we disclosed at that time.
Anything further Mr.
Rodgers? No.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to [Caron Ford] [ph] with Mitsubishi UFJ.
Ms.
Ford if you will please check your mute button.
We're unable to hear you.
Ms.
Ford please proceed with your question.
Let's move on.
Next we'll go to Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group Thank you.
Joel when you talked about what's happening in terms of the color on demand variable for life science.
Generally you painted a picture of an industry where demand is really not cyclical not really impacted by what's happening in the economy overall to a great degree.
But I do have a question.
We do seem to be seeing a higher level of M&amp;A transactions among some of the larger life science companies.
I'm just curious as you think about that number one do you place your understanding and discussion with your tenants? Do you think we're going to see continued high level of M&amp;A activity? And do you anticipate it would have a negative impact on demand at all? Yes.
It's a good question.
I think that historically well maybe 2015 is the high-water mark for M&amp;A broadly speaking.
And a lot of the M&amp;A as you know has been in the payer sector it's been in the generic space.
It hasn't necessarily been purely in the ethical pharmaceutical or biotech area although there have been clearly some opportunities in that world.
But I think when we've seen M&amp;A in general I mean it's not always the case but in general the target is usually looked at unless it's generally a single product purchase; in which case good example of that is when Onyx was bought by Amgen they were looking at - there were sweeter products but primarily the main multiple myeloma product was the main target.
And so - and Amgen also had a lot of extra space in South San Francisco city looked to sublease that.
You know we're on the percipience of that being fully sub leased but we still have Amgen credit for 10 years.
I think that's more of the exception where we've seen M&amp;A of companies that have a platform of opportunities with multiple shots on goal or they're looking to essentially get a cadre of very high-quality researchers which often happens when a farmer buys M&amp;A.
Those locations are generally preserved and they're preserved because they tend to be in the core locations where you've got the collaboration and the innovation at its bet.
And I don't think that's going to change at all.
So if we think about that collectively in your core markets you have had this very favorable tailwind now for five years or so where you had a very strong increase in demand relative to the ability of the market to supply product.
Is it your view in spite of a slowdown in the economy that's very favorable supply-demand condition will be sustained over the next couple of years? Yes.
Pretty.
I feel pretty good about it because if you go to the best locations you go to a New York City you go to Cambridge you go to a Mission Bay you go to Lake Union in Seattle there is virtually no new supply there is highly constrained environment for new development - let alone things like Prop M or whatever.
And I think that's going to be a big check.
And I think even if demand moderates because no one knows where this market is going the macro market in the sense of how severe or not severe it is but most people feel that it's not a replay of '08-'09.
Well I remember in one quarter I think it's kind of funny.
I remember this quarter well.
I think it was maybe first second quarter of '09 there was maybe a 40 000 square foot lease in all of New York side and actually we signed two leases in Cambridge during those first two quarters for well over 100 000 square feet.
So we feel good about being positioned in a very defensive posture in the best locations where you have real constrained supply and the demand we still see in virtually all the markets is still good.
Okay and the final question from me.
You obviously have some significant tech tenant signed up for space under development in San Francisco.
And I wonder if you could give us an update on your views as to that source of demand in that market.
What do you expect to unfold over the next year or two? Well I guess the good news and the bad news is we've got 100% occupancy so we can't feel much in a way of demand.
But I think when it comes to our tenants the three that we've underwritten and spent a lot of time with I think Uber continues to be a just a transformational change in the way we do a number of things including transportation.
But well beyond that and we certainly see that they're going to be a big force for many years to come.
I mean look today we started with Google back in 1998 in their first campus and they were at Series A and today they are now the largest company in the world I guess by equity market cap.
We also feel very good about Pinterest.
Pinterest was just highlighted by Fortune as one of the three so called unicorns that are most likely to succeed.
We think their business both on the personal side but extending to the commercial side has huge opportunities.
And then on Stripe I think we continue to use stripe as a great company and it continues to be the back bone of the medium size B2b business community.
So I think we feel good about our situation.
I think overall tech -- as I said I think you're going to see some shakeup.
Clearly there is evaluation transformation going on but based on what I know and my conversations with venture guys up in the bay area which we have all the time.
The model as I mentioned earlier Jim moving from building platforms to building profitable businesses and that's something - and that moves them from being less dependent on either the private or the public capital markets and that's by intentional design.
So I think you'll see the really high-quality companies continue to do well and move away from the need to do private or public financings when the markets are not receptive and the ones that just simply can't do that will I'm sure go away.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And next we'll go to Mike Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Joel given the fall early in the capital markets do you expect life savings companies will be more cautious making long-term real estate decisions or is this not really driving factor for these type of tenants? Well I think everybody is - no one is immune to the larger markets.
And people pay attention obviously when a radical transformation in the economic environment like 08/09 happens obviously everybody pays attention to that but I think in this market people will make good decisions good business decisions.
Yes they may be a lot more careful but I think essentially their evaluations are based on in the life science industry the quality of their pipeline.
And I think they're going to make good decisions on that.
And again they are not by enlarge dependent on capital markets.
Okay.
And then can you give us some color on your plan to asset sales in 2016.
Will these sales be similar to the ones completed in 2015 and are there any specific markets you're focused on? As my comments earlier Michael were that we're going to be looking carefully and provide more color in the next quarter or two on our dispositions.
But keep in mind we just completed a tremendous amount in almost $600 million this year most of it in the fourth quarter or in December for that matter.
So we've been active in the market and we'll provide more color here soon.
And then you completed a lot of the non-core sales already right.
So those would still be kind of like the core JV type fill? No.
I think the simplest way to think of it is that we look through the asset base from time to time and I think almost any category of assets we hold is their gain.
There is a little bit in every bucket that can be executed on.
So stay tune there.
Great.
Thank you.
And next we'll go to Manny Korchman with Citi.
Hi it's Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Dean just a methodology sort of question as you think about your debt EBITDA which you sort of just present sort of whatever your EBITDA is annualized and clearly this quarter with the amount of gains that you successfully liquidated some of your holdings that created a big bump in EBITDA which is not really sort of recurring EBITDA creates a lot of capital but it's not a recurring number.
And I’m just curious in your targets that you have does that include some level of gain that you're annualizing? Is that - I guess you're thinking about also from a GAAP perspective not cash.
I'm curious when you put out these forecast what's in and what's out? Well keep in mind Michael for the fourth quarter of this year - at the beginning of the year I think we've stayed pretty close to target.
We're anticipating to be sub 7% and we ended up at 6.9% as we reported without the 7.7%.
So I don't think that 6.6% came about just because we executed some sales or securities.
We're not looking for anything lumpy in our guidance and that's consistent with how we presented the numbers for this year.
I think your question does provide a great opportunity to discuss one of the things that I think people should consider¸ although we don't make this into our numbers is that we have a tremendous amount of contractual cash rents that have not commenced as a result of recent deliveries development and redevelopment projects.
And the contractual rents are under leases so they will kick-in.
A simplest way of looking at it is that if the world not the world really but if things came to an end and we stopped building product the cash flows would kick-in and significantly reduce our leverage metrics.
And so as much as we try to think about making pro rata adjustments for dispositions or deliveries is also that other component of contractual cash flows that aren't in place yet and that's really significant.
And so there is a variety of things that move back and forth Michael.
We just try to keep it simple and report the numbers the way they fall out and be clear on what the number consist of so investors can make adjustments as appropriate.
And how should we think about that $75 million of equity because it's basically 0.2 turns on debt-to-EBITDA and got here from 7.169 on a full-year basis.
How should we think about when that was executed? Did it replace other cash that you’re going to raise to get your debt-to-EBITDA down to that target below 7x level? Yes.
I think Michael in my opening comments I alluded to that that it allowed us given the timing and given we were working with the kind of the sale of 409-499 Illinois allowed us to take less equity from that or less proceeds from that transactions by doing the ATM and also we didn't have to either lower 2015 or 2016 guidance so it turned out to be kind of a good thing even though however maybe.
And when was that equity raised during the fourth quarter just from a timing perspective relative to Investor Day? December Michael.
So post Investor Day? Yes.
Our Investor Day was early early December so.
After that and the transactions closed after that as well.
So we were looking at all the interplay of those various things to get with the security sales.
And just last one.
Dean your referenced the hindsight 20/20.
We wish you could have told more knowing what you know today in terms of where the stock market has gone and specifically your share price.
I guess may be just walk us through the internal debate when you think about your company with obviously a very high released development platform but it is development so it always carry risk even if its pre-leased; and certainly a tenant base that is high credit but certainly a different segment on the market in terms of healthcare biotech and technology; and then leverage.
When you think about those three risks how much did you - which provides opportunity as well I'm not trying to demean the opportunity set but I guess collectively was their discussion just sort of say and you look at what ACC did last night in terms of their equity raise very large equity raised.
How do you discuss internally saying you know what let's just do a large equity raise it will be a little bit earnings diluted it's not going to be that NAV dilutive given where our stock price is.
Was that debated at all in December? Well I'll tell you the answer is we felt because one of the compelling factors Michael is with 2016 deliveries and a very large set of 2017 and that little bit ended 2018 deliveries as opposed to a lot of companies who don't have a development pipeline and on boarding NOI that would be literally may be 25% of what our current NOI is.
That wasn't such a compelling opportunity.
We felt that we could take a small slice of equity meet all of our goals continue to deleverage.
And there are bunch of companies that are much higher leverage than we are so we feel good about our path.
And we have options because of those - because of the big pipeline.
So sure you can always think about a big rip the band aid off but we didn't feel it was necessary or appropriate at that time.
It's still in hindsight don't feel that as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we'll go to Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities Thanks.
I just want to clarify the ATM was announced the date after Investor Day right? I think I remember that correctly.
I think that's correct.
Okay.
I just wanted to make sure I understood that timing.
My only question is to what extend Dean kind of alluded to stopping building if the world comes to an end or business comes to an end.
Dramatic way to say but I get the point.
To what extend is delaying 2017 2018 deliveries to further out years kind of on your mind right now.
Given where the world is and your stock prices or is it just - that's just too far out to be considering at this point.
I don't think we have to think about that because I think we have path to fund them.
We have a path to get to a sub six leverage number and those become important deliveries.
They're also contractually required when you sign a lease you perform under the lease and we’ve got the brand reputation in the area and why we've been able to attract the partners we have for the leases we’ve under committed to and under – put under contract.
So I don’t think that’s part of our calculus and I think based on most economies view of the world this is not a structural banking failure situation there is tough times due to oil in China and may be the high yield market et cetera.
But I don’t think we’re in the same position.
I mean when we – I remember Dean and I when we after Lehman collapsed in September of 2008 literally within six weeks we had cut CapEx 50% I don’t think we’re in that environment today.
And so in some ways the continuation of the longer out development business is a necessary part of your de-leveraging process? I think it is especially given that it’s a highly leased development pipeline.
If it wasn’t I think we would be thinking very differently.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions.
I’ll turn it back to our presenters for any closing comments.
Thank you all for your time and wishing everybody a Happy and Healthy New Year.
Thank you again.
We look forward to talking to you on the first quarter call.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We would like to thank everyone for their participation.