Good day everyone and welcome to the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
First quarter 2011 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties in particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2011 or subsequent periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our first quarter results as reported earlier today.
I'm Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me and presenting on the call today is Vanessa Wittman our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome Dan Glaser Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies; as well as our operating companies CEOs Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Michele Burns of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Mike Bischoff.
Our first quarter results show that we're off to a very good start this year.
We reported a strong increase in revenue with growth of 9%.
In fact this is the third consecutive quarter that each of our operating companies produce revenue growth on both a reported and on underlying basis.
And importantly we can continue to achieve revenue growth while maintaining effective control over operating expenses.
As a result we produced 10% growth in adjusted EPS for the quarter a solid start for the year.
The positive momentum at Marsh continued with good underlying revenue growth fueled by new business development and high client revenue retention rates.
Guy Carpenter also produced excellent quarterly underlying revenue growth as it has for more than 2 years now led by its international operations.
Mercer generated underlying revenue growth of mid-single digits for the third consecutive quarter.
And Oliver Wyman's underlying revenue growth was its strongest since 2007.
So we're very pleased with our operating performance in the first quarter.
I'd now like to expand on some recent management changes at the company.
The 4 pillars I discussed in Investor Day last September are the foundation for Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies to produce outstanding performance on a long-term basis re-establishing us as a global growth company.
Our strategy focuses on the characteristics that create exceptional value and superior returns for investors long-term growth low capital requirements high cash generation with disciplined capital management and low risk profile.
Based on our strong performance last year and our excellent start this year I am confident that the turnaround we began 3 years ago is complete.
Now that we've managed effectively through the great recession and each of our businesses is on an upward trajectory I thought it was an opportune time to make changes to our leadership structure.
These changes further enhance our strong management team by providing expanded responsibilities and broadened scope for certain key executives.
This will allow them to utilize their unique perspectives to further refine our operating model while at the same time maintaining the continuity and strong cohesive working relationship among the senior management team.
So as we announced last month Dan Glaser is named Group President Chief Operating Officer of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
We believe his appointment will accelerate our progress towards growth in revenue and profitability across all our operating companies and sharpen our focus as an organization.
As you know Dan is a seasoned executive with 30 years’ experience in the insurance business including senior management positions both as a broker and as an underwriter.
In his newly created role Dan will have operational and strategic oversight of our 4 operating companies as well as certain functional areas.
Under Dan's leadership Marsh dramatically improved profitability and performance.
And we have every confidence that he brings the same leadership qualities strategic thinking and operational excellence to his new role.
Peter Zaffino is named CEO of Marsh.
One of the best decisions I made when I joined Marsh &amp; McLennan was to name Peter as CEO of Guy Carpenter in early 2008.
During his tenure Peter built and led a team that significantly improved performance solidified Guy Carpenter's standing as one of the world's leading reinsurance intermediaries and positioned the company as a broad-based risk advisor for the insurance industry.
Building on the strong foundation Dan created at Marsh Peter will draw on his 20 years of experience in the insurance and reinsurance industry to bring the same vision insight and drive to his new role.
Alex Moczarski  will now lead Guy Carpenter.
Alex had been CEO of the International division of Marsh and was instrumental in the building its substantial presence in markets throughout the world.
Under his leadership Marsh's International operations have been a strong contributor to Marsh's performance over the past 3 years.
Alex has worked tirelessly to build a cohesive international team spanning several continents and he has a passion for the business that always takes into account what is in the best interest of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
With more than 30 years in the insurance industry 18 years at Marsh and before that with AIG Alex is an internationalist.
He spent time in Latin America and Europe as well as the United States gaining invaluable experience and perspective needed to guide to lead Guy Carpenter as it focuses on the enormous potential of international growth.
I want to emphasize that our strong management team includes our colleagues within Mercer and Oliver Wyman led by Michele and John.
The entire senior management team will continue working together with a long-term focus driving performance.
And before anyone asks I couldn't be more engaged and energized about the company's prospects than I am today.
With that let me turn it over to Vanessa to review our first quarter results in more detail.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
I'm delighted to report that the financial performance of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies in the first quarter was strong.
We achieved solid revenue growth and increased operating income in each of our operating companies.
On a GAAP basis earnings per share in the first quarter was $0.58 including $0.56 from continuing operations discontinued operations of $0.02 related largely to Putnam.
And it's important to note that our adjusted EPS equaled GAAP EPS from continuing operations.
On an adjusted basis first quarter EPS increased 10% to $0.56.
First let's go into a little more detail on our consolidated results.
Unless specifically indicated my references will be to underlying revenue underlying expenses and adjusted operating income.
Investment income rose to $19 million from $8 million last year.
In the second quarter we anticipate a slight loss due to a mark-to-market declines in our private equity portfolio which are recorded on a one quarter lag.
In the first quarter interest income rose to $7 million due to higher cash balances compared with last year and slightly higher interest rates.
Interest expense decreased to $51 million in the fourth -- first quarter from $60 million a year ago due to the payment of a $550 million senior note last September.
Our next debt maturity is a $250 million note due in March of next year.
Let's turn to the results of our operations.
In Risk and Insurance Services both Marsh and Guy Carpenter contributed to strong revenue growth in the first quarter.
Operating income increased 7% to $383 million.
This growth in profitability was achieved despite higher pension costs and the negative impact of foreign currency translation.
The euro and the British pound were weak relative to the U.S.
dollar in January which is a major renewal period for Guy Carpenter and the largest period of profitability for Marsh's European operations.
Had it not been for the effects of foreign exchange Risk and Insurance Services would have achieved slight margin improvement instead of the slight decline.
Even taking this into account Marsh had another solid quarter.
Revenue rose 4% in the first quarter to $1.3 billion marking the fourth consecutive quarter of growth.
Every one of Marsh's major geographic operations experienced revenue growth in the quarter with particularly strong growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Additionally U.S./Canada generated revenue growth of 3% for the third consecutive quarter a real achievement considering the market conditions.
Turning to Reinsurance Broking.
Guy Carpenter continued to build on its very strong performance in 2010.
Revenue was $340 million reflecting strong growth of 7% led by its International operations and global specialties.
This quarter marks Carpenter's ninth consecutive quarter of revenue growth reflecting continuing strong new business and high client retentions.
Our Consulting segment continued to generate strong revenue growth.
In the first quarter revenue rose 6% to $1.3 billion.
Growth in operating expenses was 5% including the impact of higher pension expense.
Operating income rose 13%.
Mercer's revenue increased 5% in the first quarter to $922 million continuing its strong performance from the second half of last year.
Within Retirement revenue growth in EMEA Asia-Pacific and Latin America was offset by declines in North America.
Health and Benefits continued its outstanding performance matching its 8% growth in the third and fourth quarters of 2010.
All global regions showed strength particularly the U.S.
Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Rewards Talent &amp; Communications produced double-digit revenue growth for the third consecutive quarter.
This was due to continuing demand for Mercer's compensation surveys as well as higher demands for consulting services in all major geographies.
In the quarter outsourcing revenue was negatively impacted by the loss of 2 clients due to M&amp;A.
The double-digit growth in Investment Consulting &amp; Management continued a trend that has now extended for more than a year.
Oliver Wyman's 9% growth rate in this quarter was its highest since 2007.
This impressive growth was led by a number of industry sectors that achieved double-digit increases including healthcare transportation and retail.
Oliver Wyman's close management of operating expenses also contributed to excellent growth and operating income.
Debt at the end of the first quarter was $3 billion unchanged from year end.
Average diluted shares rose due to 3 factors: one acquisitions; two an increase in common share equivalents due to a higher share price; and three the normal vesting of equity awards.
The increase was partially offset by share repurchases.
Quarter-end's cash was $1.3 billion compared with $1.1 billion a year ago.
Our cash utilization is typically greatest in the first quarter primarily due to the payment of incentive compensation awards.
Other major uses of cash in the first quarter included $120 million for acquisitions and dividend payments of $117 million.
We delayed repurchasing shares due to our normal heavy cash uses in the first quarter.
But now in the second quarter with bonus payments behind us and the anticipation of a tax refund in June related to the Kroll disposition we plan to resume repurchasing our shares.
With that let me turn it back to Brian.
Thanks Vanessa probably we should begin our Q&amp;A session.
Just as a reminder our operating companies' CEOs are here to answer your questions.
And for the first quarter results at Marsh it's more appropriate I think that Dan answers.
And the same for Guy Carpenter I think it's more appropriate Peter answers.
And with that let's take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first hear from Keith Walsh with Citi.
First question for Dan and then I've got one for Peter.
And Dan just on -- thinking about enhanced commissions.
How should we be thinking about that year-over-year? Do you have more paying customers and more revenues this year than you did last if you can directionally give us some color there? Sure.
In general I would look broadly on our strategy of increasing carrier revenue streams.
Enhanced commission is part of that strategy but also fee-for-service agreements with carriers is also part of that strategy.
If I look at the quarter specifically I mean we made progress last year and we are making progress this year.
If I look at the quarter on a global basis about a 0.25 of our growth were related to yield initiative fee-for-services and enhanced commissions.
Okay.
Great.
And then for Peter 9 consecutive quarters of growth and coincidentally I guess Aon Benfield was done 9 quarter ago.
So maybe if you could just give us an idea of what percent of that growth is really coming from fallout from a merger that size? And then if you could have any commentary on our RMS '11? Yes.
Again our success over many quarters has been focusing on driving value to clients.
And this quarter is no exception.
We had our strongest quarter of new business ever and it was up 20% year-over-year when you look at the first quarter of '10 to '11.
So again it's very strong and it's coming from everywhere.
Our competitors we've had driven significant value to client that created new reinsurance opportunities.
So there is no one specific trend I think we've been executing very well on new business.
In terms of RMS it's not quite clear and certain how that's going to impact reinsurance purchasing or the industry as of yet.
But we have been working very closely with all of our clients running a series of RMS and other vendor models to understand the changes and how they impact our clients and what specific trends there are.
And we're starting to see a lot of the inland exposures being driven off in some of the peak zones 15-plus percent.
And so as renewals come up we will certainly react to that floor is the big one on June 1 and then we'll have others on 7 1.
So I think that's going to be a gradual impact as we look into the year.
Next we hear from Brian Meredith of UBS.
A couple questions here for you.
I guess the first one can you talk a little bit about exposure growth and what are you seeing from just the economy? Are we seeing exposure breakdown? Is that part of the revenue growth we're seeing here? Dan? Sure.
We're there seeing a very slight improvement in exposure units both in terms of payrolls business interruption values and asset values.
But very low-single digits as an example on the United States and in the U.K.
So while it's a very slight tailwind I wouldn't put exposure growth as being the basis for our growth.
Our growth is largely driven by high client retention and new business.
Great.
And then Vanessa I'm wondering if you got what the FX-adjusted growth in operating expenses was at Risk and Insurance Services? So Keith we don't break it out but I think the best way to think about it is that over the course of the year it's going to be a -- have a de minimis impact.
It was a slight drag on the margins as I pointed out during the quarter.
Okay.
So is it therefore so margins were up year-over-year right? Ex Risk and Insurance Services -- I mean ex FX? Yes excluding FX absolutely.
Excluding FX that's right Peter -- sorry Brian.
Cliff Gallant of Keefe Bruyette and Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Can you talk a little bit about just the M&amp;A strategy and the deals you did over the past year how are they coming along? Are they meeting targets? And then what is the outlook? I guess I'll take that.
Well I think so far so good with the ones we've done over the last year.
We've been concentrating more on the Marsh &amp; McLennan agency and those things are relative as you know relatively new.
And the strategy itself is a long-term strategy.
So it's going to take a while for the total effect of that network to come together.
But in terms of hitting our milestones I think we're on target and we're going to continue to do that.
We've been looking across all the operating companies for acquisitions that enhance capability.
So we just finished the one at Mercer Hammond that does a lot for the investment side.
On Guy Carpenter's side we did a couple over the last year so -- right McKensie and Collins which increased our capabilities in very specific areas.
HSBC was done to enhance Marsh's international capabilities.
And so of course I've left Oliver Wyman out but they continue to look.
And as we find opportunities we will seize upon them.
So it's very targeted and specific and of course it has to be meeting all of the standards we laid out for you at Investor Day.
Next we'll hear from Meyer Shields of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Vanessa commented that retirement was weak in North America I was wondering if we could get a little more detail on that from Michele? Sure.
Yes as I indicated to you in the last quarterly call retirement will continue to face some headwinds struggle as the DB [defined benefit] landscape changes.
This quarter the U.S.
struggled a bit more than the rest of the theaters.
However I think that is episodic.
If anything there's a good marker and the fact that 1 million did stabilize.
And again it's come back.
That said I think the thing to remember about the business of retirement is that we are working hard to do 2 things to change and realign our operating model to reflect the new realities as well as building and continuing to expand into capabilities that actually work in consort with that retirement client to solve the needs that the retirement client has.
So the combination of our Retirement business with the strength of its client base the strength of the loyalties therein combined with our investment capabilities makes that a winning hand over the long run.
Okay.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks and if I could turn to Dan really quickly.
There've been some chatter recently whether it's the Japanese earthquake or other factors about the rate that we've stabilized there.
Does that hinder the opportunities the new M&amp;A in the short term? Because brokers have again I think you're getting better.
No I don't think so.
I mean I think in general we all know that we're in a cyclical business.
And if you put yourself in the mind of a seller they wouldn't sell based upon whether rates in the macro P&amp;C environment were going up or down because it's so temporary in one way or the other.
I think there is a lot of other factors that drive -- it usually has to do with how they believe they can grow their businesses on a going forward basis what global capabilities that many upper middle market accounts now or have some global exposures.
So which company can help them on a global platform basis? Which company can drive product to them which they could sell on to their customer base? But I think there's a lot of other factors beyond P&amp;C so we're not seeing any impact on our pipeline based upon an anticipated flattening market.
Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
I want to ask a question about the Risk and Insurance Services margins maybe to follow-up little bit on Brian's question.
So even if I kind of adjust for the foreign exchange effects it would appear that with comp and benefit ratio being down are there still something else there that's driving margins lower a little bit? Could you maybe expand on that a little bit? I guess that's Dan.
Or you want to do it Vanessa? Yes.
Let me start because we do have the pension drag as well.
So we were trying to quantify for you that the FX drag would've lifted from a slight decline in the margin you see for this segment to a slight improvement.
But also remember that on top of the FX drag which was really the anomaly because of the January rate inflection exchange rate inflections you also have that pension drag.
We gave some guidance in the fourth quarter that that would be about $45 million over the course of the year or call it roughly $12 million a quarter and that's about $7 million for RIS [Risk and Insurance Services] and $5 million for Consulting.
So if you add that to the -- to your pension -- I'm sorry to your FX drag you would have seen positive margins.
Got it.
And then can I maybe ask one other question about the Consulting business where clearly there have been 2 major acquisitions in that space over the last couple of years.
Because have you seen any -- a greater flow of resumes or talents looking for [indiscernible] opportunities after those acquisitions? Absolutely the market for talent currently is quite high.
There's a lot of movement between firms a lot of activity in the market.
Obviously we're in a unique position because we have a stable base to take advantage of that as appropriate and we continue to build our business and our capabilities for this time.
We feel very advantaged in the fact that we have not had the requirement or the need to do the large acquisition instead we've been able to deploy our capital to do tuck-in acquisitions that actually extend capability and allow us to have freedom of movement across the rest of portfolios to continue to build.
Matthew Heimermann JPMorgan.
Question for Dan just on growth in the Marsh segment.
You mentioned about a quarter that was commission enhancement.
Based on your response to Brian's question it sounds like there were some positive impact from the economy.
So I guess what I'd be curious about is are you still seeing growth because retention is increasing year-on-year? That's something you talked about in the past and I'm just curious if that's continuing.
Yes.
Our -- we look at it in 2 ways: account retention and revenue retention.
Our account retention levels are stable at a high level and are actually depending on segment and geography are between 90% and 94% and those are levels that Marsh hadn't seen until the period of like 2000 and 2001 so our account retention level is very strong.
Our revenue retention level which really is the revenue we get on accounts on sort of the same-store basis has been increasing as well.
And that is where you could see some mild stabilization of rates some mild increases in exposure units and expanded new sales to existing customers.
So if you look at our growth in the quarter it was very broadly distributed.
We have 32 countries that grew organically 5% or more and we have very strong new business both internationally and in the U.S./Canada.
Our new business for the quarter is about $240 million.
Okay.
That's helpful.
So if I -- just to summarize and I realize these are my numbers but if growth was 4% you get about a 1% from the commission enhancement maybe 1% from some of the economic things you talked about and then probably about 2% from the new business growth? Well you're far more technical than us.
We go out there and we try to find a new customer so I would just leave it at that.
Matt let's say you're [indiscernible].
That doesn't count too far off though does it? [indiscernible] we'll leave it at that okay? Fair enough.
That's good.
That's okay.
The other question I have for John and I guess Michele could opine on this as well is just -- I think previously it's been -- the pipeline for the Specialty Consulting business has been quite full.
I guess I'd just be curious about whether or not the pipeline is starting to clear at kind of a pace consistent with past recoveries or whether or not that pipeline is still maybe fuller than it should be because things still aren't moving even though the growth is picking up aren't moving as fast as you normally would expect? Well I think Matthew if you look at the last 5 quarters we've had revenue growth between 6% and 9% in each of the last 5 quarters.
And I think that trajectory is broadly reflective of relatively weak recovery but still growing business confidence over the last 5 quarters relative to say '08 and '09.
Now looking forward I think we're seeing a continuation of that same environment broadly.
That is we're still not seeing a spike in recovery but we would expect the pipeline to clear at a pace similar to what we've seen over the last 5 quarters.
So I think our outlook is for more of the same rather than a spike up or down.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Now for Mercer in our Specialty businesses we actually lagged on a bit for a couple quarters and we did not see the turn until the third quarter of last year.
Since that time it has been consistent and strong and we have strong pipeline into the immediate and mid-term.
All right.
Thanks for that.
And then can I sneak one numbers question just on depreciation and amortization? I'd just be curious if you could give us a sense of what's happening with intangible amortization relative to just depreciation? Intangibles are going to go up because of our acquisitions so it would be a higher percentage.
And you should expect that to stay in line with our M&amp;A activity going forward.
Okay.
That's very -- but no other -- I mean there's no underlying change in the depreciation number? No.
Okay.
Perfect.
Larry Greenberg Langen McAlenney.
For modeling purposes when we think about buybacks going forward should we assume all other things equal it will be greater in the latter half of the year when you tend to generate more cash? Well I guess certainly if you take the quarter out the first quarter out and then the next 9 months I'd say certainly.
Whether it's latter half of the year I think it at all depends on a lot of market conditions et cetera.
But the first quarter is the anomaly.
Okay fair enough.
And then clearly the sense from the underwriting community has been that the tone of the marketplace has changed for commercial lines.
And I'm wondering if you could just give us your thoughts on that.
Dan? Sure.
Well I just got back from RIMS last night and it was a very active RIMS lots of clients lots of underwriter discussions.
And I think you're right that the tone in the discussions is a bit different.
Underwriters are not quite as aggressively pursuing new business and not quite as malleable with existing clients.
That's not to say that they are walking away from clients based upon prices.
And so I think we're in a sort of shoulder season.
We're not quite soft but we're certainly not hard so it feels like it's stabilizing.
I know from talking to our marketing pubs placements are still getting done.
Oftentimes with reductions still but the marketing of those placements is more difficult than it had been at this time last year.
Okay? And could Peter maybe comment on reinsurance? Sure.
The reinsurance remember for our portfolio over 50% of our business incepts on January 1 so as all these different catastrophes happen in the first quarter we're really looking forward as some of the major quarters that come up.
The true story won't be told until next year.
But similar to what Dan is saying there are signs that rate reductions are starting to slow down we still saw that in the first quarter on property cap and there will be a confluence of events.
We've seen what happened in Japan.
But as we see the earnings calls for reinsurers many of them have increased their own estimates on what Japan means and what the expected loss is.
So we have that coupled with RMS coupled with the largest quarter catastrophes outside of the U.S.
in the history of reinsurance.
So now all those confluence of events are going to have companies taking a hard look at how they're going to deploy their capital and how they are going to price the business going forward so it's a very similar theme.
Next we'll hear from Adam Klauber William Blair.
A couple questions on Mercer.
Obviously growth was pretty strong at Health and Benefits and Rewards Talent.
Is that a function of pent-up demand from the recession or is that a function of new clients or a combination? That is I would say a combination of the two.
Let's start with Health and Benefits.
We're still not seeing growth in employment in the U.S.
at such rates as to impact that so you would have to attribute the growth in H and B Health and Benefits to the new business new clients expanded business or existing clients.
Some of that would have to do with healthcare reform and we expect that trend to continue.
We see that growth across the entire marketplace whether it's in the top end of the market all the way to the small employer where our D&amp;A the top of it have approach to providing broking and consulting services and Health and Benefits is winning in marketplace.
With regard to Specialty Consulting clearly there is a pent-up demand where people have taken an opportunity to step back in to their talent management space especially both in the United States and around the world.
I just recently completed a trip that covered Mexico to Argentina and met with a number of CEOs and CFOs and CHR.
Those Chief Human Resource Officers seek consistent demand from them bar none was Talent Management talent advice around their workforce strategies and so yes they have taken their eye off of that for a while as we will all weather in the great recession but have moved back into that space.
Okay.
And one more follow-up on Mercer.
The expense line effectively moved up with the revenue line.
I think expense growth was roughly 8% 9% for the quarter.
Should we expect that trend going forward? That expense should track revenue or should we get some margin expansion with -- if revenue remains at high level? This segment expects margin expansion over the mid- and longer-term.
I think that we focus on profitability and with revenue growth you do in fact need some degree of expense growth to fuel the people and the talent and the pipeline to do the work.
But that said there were some couple of anomalies I won't even bother to call out in the first quarter.
As we move forward you should expect margin expansion across the segment fairly consistently.
Thomas Mitchell of Miller Tabak.
LLC</strong> Just in a broad sense looking back and not making adjustments for what you did own and don't own of course the level of overall Consulting side earnings was considerably higher let's say if we go back to the first quarter of 2007 2008.
As we sort of model looking forward through the next couple of years do you see the possibility that we could get back to similar levels of profitability or have we sort of adjusted to a lower level to start from and it'll be a more modest growth? How about if I answer that one? Because I would say that when we look at the potential for Consulting those '07 levels certainly they reflect an economy that was robust no question about it.
But I'd say that we have every belief that we can get back to those levels over time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Good.
Our final question for today will be a follow-up from Meyer Shields of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Is the first quarter corporate expense a good run rate for the year? Vanessa? We will have some movement as we figure out our new management structure.
So I think you can use it but we may revise that guidance for you in the next quarter call.
Okay? All right well let me just close and thank first of all thank you for attending the call and thank my associates all around the world for getting us off for a good start and wish all these guys with new jobs luck in their new endeavors.
So good luck to you all.
Thanks again.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
That does concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Second quarter 2011 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies’ website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties.
In particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2011 or subsequent periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I will now turn the conference over to Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our second quarter results as reported earlier today.
I am Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me and presenting on the call today is Dan Glaser Group President and Chief Operating Officer; and Vanessa Wittman our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Michele Burns of Mercer and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Mike Bischoff.
Following my comments Dan will discuss our operating results in more detail.
Vanessa will then update you on our financial position.
Let me begin by saying our second quarter results were outstanding and illustrate the excellent progress we have made over the past year.
We reported a strong increase in revenue with growth of 12% and growth was 5% on an underlying basis for the second quarter in a row.
In fact this is the fourth consecutive quarter that each of our operating companies produced revenue growth on both a reported and an underlying basis.
And we continue to achieve this growth while maintaining control over our operating expenses.
As a result we produced strong growth in adjusted operating income.
In the first 6 months of this year underlying revenue growth of 5% and adjusted underlying expense growth of 4% produced 13% growth in adjusted operating income an excellent first half of the year.
The positive momentum at Marsh continued this quarter with underlying revenue growth driven by strong new business development and increased client revenue rates.
Guy Carpenter also produced excellent underlying revenue growth as it has for 10 straight quarters.
Mercer generated an underlying revenue growth of mid-single digits for the fourth consecutive quarter and Oliver Wyman’s string of solid revenue growth continued driven by Financial Services its largest industry sector.
So as we look across the breadth of the company we're very pleased with the performance of every one of our operating companies.
As you've heard me say a number of times since our Investor Day last September our plan is to establish Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies as an elite business enterprise valued by our clients our colleagues and our shareholders.
And we have articulated our growth strategy that will guide us in realizing this aspiration.
Our strategy focuses on the characteristics that create exceptional value and superior returns for investors: sustained long-term growth in revenue and earnings per share low capital requirements high cash generation and reducing the risk profile of the company.
Some of these pillars are interrelated.
For example our positive cash flow has allowed us within the past several quarters to increase our dividend make attractive acquisitions and institute a share repurchase program.
Our excess cash also allowed us to strengthen our balance sheet which lowers the risk profile of the company.
Another example of how we're evolving into an elite organization is the articulation to our colleagues throughout the world of our corporate philosophy which we refer to as The Greater Good.
This philosophy is designed to assist our colleagues with respect to the legal ethical and risk issues that may arise in the course of doing business.
This enhanced approach reinforces our business standards as we operate globally.
As part of this effort we produced a documentary to creatively represent the essence of our corporate philosophy.
We encourage you to visit our website to learn more about The Greater Good and to view the 4-minute trailer for the award-winning film entitled Faces of Marsh &amp; McLennan.
So you see we take very seriously the 4 pillars we presented to the investment community 10 months ago.
Not only are we producing strong results we are implementing a variety of initiatives to better position the company for growth.
In summary our excellent performance in the first half of the year demonstrates the type of performance the senior leadership is striving for.
Sustaining this performance over the long term should translate into outstanding results for our shareholders.
And with that let me turn it over to Dan to review our second quarter results in more detail.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
I'm delighted to talk to you about the outstanding financial performance of our operating companies in the second quarter.
First let's go into a little more detail on our consolidated operating results.
We achieved solid revenue growth and increased adjusted operating income at each of our operating companies for the fourth consecutive quarter.
This quarter revenue increased 12% to $2.9 billion and underlying revenue growth was 5%.
We also produced a robust increase in adjusted operating income of 17%.
Risk and Insurance Services revenue increased 11% to $1.6 billion with underlying revenue growth of 5%.
Continued expense discipline held adjusted underlying expense growth to 3%.
Adjusted operating income increased 16% to $352 million with Marsh and Guy Carpenter both contributing double-digit growth.
And the adjusted operating margin increased 100 basis points to 21.7% reflecting higher margins at both operating companies.
For the first half of the year the adjusted operating margin for the segment increased slightly despite the effects of higher pension expense and the negative impact of foreign currency translation.
Marsh had another strong quarter any way you look at it.
Revenue increased 12% to $1.4 billion and underlying revenue rose 5% marking the fifth consecutive quarter of growth.
Every one of Marsh's major geographic operations experienced underlying revenue growth in the quarter with particularly strong growth of 18% in Latin America.
In fact throughout Marsh's global operations 27 countries produced underlying revenue growth that exceeded 10%.
Additionally U.S.
Canada generated revenue growth of 3% for the fourth consecutive quarter.
On a year-to-date basis Marsh's growth rate swung by 500 basis points compared with the first 6 months of last year an impressive performance considering market conditions.
Global new business development continues to be strong.
In the second quarter Marsh's new business was up 8% on an underlying basis with similar growth in both its U.S./Canada and international operations.
For the first 6 months Marsh generated over $500 million in new business.
And with disciplined expense control the result is double-digit growth in adjusted operating income not just for the quarter but the year-to-date as well.
Now turning to reinsurance broking.
Guy Carpenter continues to build on last year's very strong performance.
Revenue was $257 million reflecting the underlying growth of 5% led by global specialties Latin America Continental Europe and U.S.
facultative reinsurance broking.
Guy Carpenter had particularly solid revenue growth from sales of its new CWILP or county weighted index loss product.
Over the last 2.5 years Carpenter has produced 10 consecutive quarters of underlying revenue growth.
It was able to accomplish this through continuing strong new business development and very high client retention.
So in summary Marsh and Guy Carpenter both produced strong financial results not only in the second quarter but throughout the first half of this year.
Turning to our Consulting segment.
I am pleased that our Consulting operations continued to generate strong revenue growth as well.
In the second quarter revenue rose 13% to $1.3 billion with underlying growth of 5%.
Growth in adjusted underlying expenses was 4%.
Adjusted operating income increased 21% and year-to-date growth was 17%.
And the Consulting adjusted margin rose 80 basis points in the current quarter.
The impact of higher pension expense in the quarter was offset by a benefit from foreign currency translation.
Mercer had a strong second quarter.
Mercer's revenue increased 13% this quarter to $945 million and underlying revenue growth was 4%.
Mercer continued the solid performance we have seen over the past year.
Within Retirement growth in the U.
K.
and Latin America was offset by declines in the U.S.
and Ireland.
Health and Benefits continued its good performance with growth in all regions of the world and particular strength in the U.S.
Latin America Canada and Asia-Pacific.
Rewards Talent and Communications produced double-digit revenue growth for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Outsourcing's underlying growth of 2% primarily reflected growth in Australia partially offset by a decline in the U.S.
The 13% underlying revenue growth in investment consulting and management continued a trend that is extended for more than a year.
Mercer has assets under management of $44 billion as of June 30.
And Mercer produced margin improvement and double-digit growth in adjusted operating income.
Oliver Wyman also had an excellent quarter continuing to produce strong revenue growth with an increase of 14%.
On an underlying basis its growth was 8% which represents Oliver Wyman's sixth consecutive quarter of high single-digit revenue growth an impressive performance.
In the latest quarter Oliver Wyman's growth was diversified with strong growth from its largest industry sector Financial Services.
It also had solid growth from the healthcare manufacturing and transportation industry sectors.
Oliver Wyman's close management of operating expenses also contributed to double-digit growth in adjusted operating income with a healthy increase in its margin.
So in summary we are very pleased with the performance of each of our operating companies not only this quarter but also over the first 6 months of the year.
In aggregate our operating companies produced adjusted income growth of 17% for the quarter and 13% for the first half of the year an excellent performance.
Now let me turn it over to Vanessa.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
As Brian and Dan have indicated the financial performance at Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies in the second quarter was very strong.
We produced earnings per share of $0.50 in the second quarter on both a GAAP and adjusted basis.
And despite the year-over-year decline in investment income of $24 million or $0.03 per share the increase in adjusted EPS was 9%.
We anticipate investment income in the third quarter to be a slight loss similar to the third quarter of 2010.
In the second quarter net interest expense decreased to $44 million from $57 million a year ago.
This was due to a slight increase in interest income and a substantial decrease in interest expense resulting from the payment of a $550 million debt obligation last September.
On last quarter's call we indicated we would be active in the second quarter with share repurchases.
I'm pleased to report we aggressively resumed our buyback program with the repurchase of nearly 8 million shares for $235 million.
Combined with our buyback activity in last year's fourth quarter we've used $320 million of our $500 million authorization repurchasing a total of 11.2 million shares.
We plan to continue repurchasing our stock in the third quarter.
When we analyzed our debt portfolio at the beginning of the year we felt some changes would be warranted if market conditions afforded us an opportunity.
In the second quarter we took advantage of a significant decline in 10-year corporate rates by tendering for a portion of our debt obligations.
Although we have small amounts due in 2012 and 2013 we chose to address the spike in our maturity ladder in 2014 and '15 when an aggregate of $1.4 billion was coming due within a 14-month period.
In June we initiated a tender offer for $250 million each of the 2014s and '15s.
The tender was oversubscribed and in July we reduced the $1.4 billion spike by $600 million.
We brought in $330 million of the $650 million due in 2014 and $270 million of the $750 million maturing in 2015.
Given our strong cash position we funded the tender with $100 million of cash and a new issue 10-year note for $500 million.
The coupon on the new note is 4.8%.
Costs of $73 million related to the early extinguishment of the debt from the tender offer will be recognized in the third quarter.
We are very pleased with these transactions which have lowered our refinancing in intermediate-term by extending our maturities at a very attractive interest rate.
Additionally we'll see a reduction in our annual interest expense of $9 million.
Our tax rate in the second quarter was 31% reflecting our geographic mix of earnings.
We continue to expect that the tax rate for the year will be approximately 31%.
Quarter end cash was $1.7 billion compared with $1.5 billion a year ago.
Debt at the end of the second quarter was $3 billion.
Net debt which is total debt less cash and cash equivalents was $1.4 billion compared with $2.1 billion at the end of the second quarter of last year.
In summary our financial position has continued to strengthen over the last 12 months.
We prudently used the current environment of low interest rates to opportunistically reconfigure our capital structure extend maturities of our debt portfolio delever our balance sheet trim ongoing interest expense and reduce our intermediate-term refinancing risk.
With that I'll turn the call back to Brian.
Thank you Vanessa and now we're ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Brian the first question I guess for you is given all the uncertainty right now from a global perspective what are you seeing in your business trends? And is there any concern here going forward that maybe you'll see a slowdown in business trends because of the global economy? It's interesting Brian.
We were talking about that just recently as of yesterday because we do think about these things.
And I'll give you my overview but I think maybe the guys could talk about it individually what they're seeing in their own operations.
And I would start by saying Brian that's something we don't have control over but we do have control over how we operate and that's the whole point of keeping control on both sides.
So we’ve done a pretty good job of growing this business in difficult times and maintaining expense.
And so frankly I don’t worry about it too much but I don't think we're seeing the signs that seem to be in the headlines every day.
In our underlying basis -- our underlying business looked pretty good going forward.
So let me start with John because I think the Consulting side would be the place where you would see it the most.
John? Brian our pipeline business pipeline still looks good.
Obviously there's lots of concerning news out there as you referenced with the sovereign debt crisis and the U.S.
debt ceiling negotiations and some weak macroeconomic news.
But to date we’ve found that business confidence has been pretty resilient and our clients are still investing in their businesses so demand for Consulting has been pretty robust.
If we look at our recent sales between say April and July and run up to now they've been strong.
Our forward-looking pipeline is good.
So there's no immediate warning signs in our business.
We obviously need to monitor it closely.
But at this point we'd expect to stay on a growth trajectory similar to what we have been.
And Michele on the Mercer side? I concur with what John said.
The pieces of our business that usually are the early warning signs of trouble or of good opportunity we’ve seen great growth.
Double-digits in talent and rewards obviously investments pillar is growing at 13%.
So we have seen no signs of our clients slowing down.
In fact they are investing in the pieces of the business that they typically invest in when they are planning for growth.
The second thing I'd say is the environment has afforded us an opportunity to do some tuck-in acquisitions and so we've done 3 tuck-in acquisitions this year that have been very opportunistic and have been very very low risk [indiscernible] will enable us to grow both organically and inorganically.
Does that help Brian? Yes that's helpful.
Just one quick follow-up question here.
Dan you mentioned that I guess FX benefits to offset tension expense.
What was the benefit to FX in the quarter from an earnings perspective? I don't mind Dan answering.
I'll be happy to take it.
So Brian in the quarter we had a slight benefit from FX and year-to-date we're neutral.
And over the course of the year as always the FX impact is de minimis.
But if you think about the pension impact which we've given guidance for is roughly $12 million a quarter and 2/3 of that in the RIS segment there's a drag there that's offset.
I would point out that FX on a margin perspective for RIS is a drag.
So you've got a double drag on your margins in RIS one from pension and the second from FX.
That will come from Cliff Gallant of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Regarding acquisitions particularly in the brokerage side of the business there's been a lot of talk in the marketplace that perhaps pricing is improving or at least bottoming and I'm curious as to how that might be affecting expectations on the seller side of whether or not they're willing to sell at this point or what kind of valuations they would want? Thanks Cliff.
Well Peter you're in it so why don't you tell us all about it? Yes there's a fair amount activity on the acquisition side.
Don't think that the underlying macroeconomic factors or pricing are playing into it for us to much.
We have a very strong strategy on Marsh &amp; McLennan agency.
And we're about $300 million in size and so we're looking for strategic acquisitions that fit in with what our vision is for the MMA.
And we also have an acquisition strategy to complement what our current portfolio looks like either from a segmentation or geographical standpoint.
So while there's activity we will absolutely stick to our strategy and drive growth in acquisitions that fit what we've outlined in the past.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I don't know if this is a Michele or a Vanessa question but I'm hoping to get a sense as to which currencies are driving the benefit for FX in terms of Consulting revenues.
Sure Meyer I'm going to take that one.
So if you think about our 4 major currencies the euro the pound the Canadian dollar and the Aussie dollar they've all strengthened against the U.S.
dollar both for the quarter and over the first half of the year.
We had a little volatility in the January side of FX the January renewals on the RIS side.
But in Consulting as we've mentioned it's a very minor benefit for both the quarter and for year-to-date.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I can follow that up I guess this is more of an RIS question.
Is the price that you're charging whether it's on a commission or a fee basis is there any gap between where it should be at this point in time and where it actually is? That's interesting.
Anybody want to take that question? Dan? I'll take it.
I would phrase it more along the lines of when we look at whether we're compensated by either commission or fee it’s about what value we create.
And I believe that over the past several years our value has increased both to our clients and also to the insurance companies we deal with.
So I would say that there is a delta between the value the additional value we've created and the income we're receiving for that value.
And obviously we work on closing that delta.
And that will come from Matthew Heimermann of JPMorgan.
I guess this question is probably either for Peter or Dan.
Just with respect to the U.S.
and Canada retention still seems to be kind of a positive tailwind for you.
I was curious if you could just give us a little bit more insight into how much of that is kind of the retention improvement of the last several years just trying to get back to normal and then whether or not there's any incremental pickup you're seeing whether it be from value service what have you? This is in client retention? Correct.
So Peter why don't you do it? And then maybe Dan might have his own insights.
Okay sure.
Actually the client retention in the U.S.
has remained very stable.
It's been very strong.
We saw evidence of that in the second quarter as well so we have actually had a pretty stable of the last 6 quarters in the U.S.
The growth has come from strong new business.
U.S.
had a very robust new business quarter in the second quarter.
As a matter of fact for the overall organization of Marsh this is the second best quarter we've had in the last 5 years in new business.
So it's a combination of very strong retentions although I think they've remained fairly stable.
We have had strong new business and really are executing much better than we have in the past.
This is something that's been an evolution process.
But Dan's leadership from 18 to 24 months ago of implementing winning at Marsh has derived a much stronger pipeline for us.
And we've been focusing on really driving value as you mentioned before.
So it's a combination of all factors that have given us the 500-basis-point lift over the first 6 months of 2011.
So just to summarize I guess so we're past the point of year-on-year retention gains helping the growth rate in the U.S.
and Canada.
We're now at a point where just the absolute retention ratio is so strong with the business levels you’re getting that's really leading to pretty attractive organic? Dan? Yes that is a good summary but I just want to make sure that we separate client retention and revenue retention.
So from a client retention standpoint our client retention levels have fully recovered from our dark period and in fact have stabilized from multiple quarters ago 5 or 6 quarters ago.
But our client retention levels are as good as they've ever been.
On a revenue retention basis you benefit from exposure changes from some stabilization of the cycle and also from our answer to the previous question our creation of additional value for our clients.
And we seek to monetize that additional value creation through either higher fees or higher commissions.
So all of those factors benefit revenue retention.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess maybe for Vanessa maybe for Michele or John but just with the 4% underlying expense growth in the Consulting segment can you give us a sense of what that's comprised of? How much of it is compensation? How much of it is G&amp;A or other investment expense in the business? Okay why don't we have -- I think Michele and John should answer that.
So why don't we have Michele talk about Mercer first? Well I think there's some compensation expense increase as a result of the prices that go into effect in the first quarter so you're lacking some quarters.
The second piece is I think we're really investing in some professionals inside the business.
So as we went through 2009 and into 2010 in the first half we had not built for the robustness of certain of the businesses sort of growing in double-digits as well as importantly the Health and Benefits business that is showing nice consistent strong growth around the world.
So there's been some increase in numbers of people as well as a little -- a smaller increase in compensation.
So the rest of expenses are not necessarily growing in any way disproportionate to the business itself.
That's the balance I would say -- where you see the expense growth in Mercer it is investing in the products and services almost exclusively.
Good.
John? Our primary expense is compensation so the noncomp expenses would probably be growing slower overall than revenues.
The comp would be growing closer to revenues.
And as with Michele a part of it reflects investment in new professionals so we are growing the overall staff capacity in the business in response to the revenue growth.
And a part of it would reflect productivity increase which results in higher compensation for those who are producing the greater productivity.
So I think it's a mix of those but we're continuing to run with a positive gap between revenue and expenses.
Okay that's helpful.
And in terms of just how we should think about the timeline of the investments going forward in people? Let me jump in there.
For us I mean what we sell is our expertise and that's person-by-person.
So as we see opportunities we're going to bring in the best people we can.
So I think they'll go hand-in-hand but we will get productivity out of them and the net result is a very positive operating income growth.
So that's kind of what you should see from us.
We tend to think very positively about the future and the growth potential and therefore positively about expanding our personnel.
That makes sense.
I just wanted to make sure it wouldn't be a mischaracterization to suggest that given 6 8 quarters ago we were in a much different growth environment.
There's probably been somewhat of a ramp-up with the pickup in growth and that very well could level off as organic growth even if it’s at these levels obviously may not be accelerating [indiscernible] in the past...
Yes I guess what we're really concerned about in the Great Recession period was reducing too deeply our capabilities and I think we did a pretty good job at that.
So the ramp-up wasn't maybe as large as you might think because we were pretty good at holding the people we needed to hold.
So I think it's now it's going to be proportional.
That will come from Keith Walsh of Citi.
Two questions.
First for Vanessa and just some numbers around margins I mean you guys are probably the only public broker that's really going to grow margins this quarter and you have headwind that others don't.
So maybe if you could -- by my math the pension headwind’s at least 70 bps.
Can you give us the numbers what's the FX headwind you had on the margin? And were there any other severance costs in there because you guys have done -- you've been hiding those severance costs and not taking them out of your P&amp;L maybe if you can give us a little color on that? I'd rather say we're absorbing the severance cost than hiding the severance cost.
But if you aggregate the headwinds that we're seeing in the margin in the RIS margin it's about 70 basis points from FX.
You are directionally correct on the pension and we're probably bearing another 15 to 20 basis points of other headwinds in the margins.
Okay.
So growth even better than the 100 that you’ve put out there.
And then the second question just for Brian and/or Vanessa just a philosophy on the capital structure.
I mean you guys have been actually reducing debt and most of your competitors out there prefer to run with a much higher debt-to-EBITDA level than you guys are well below what everyone else is.
So what's the philosophy there and why -- I guess it's a high-class question a high-class problem why are you running so low compared to everyone else? Yes I don't know what everyone else is thinking so let me just tell you what we're thinking.
My 4 pillars include that risk thing and capital management flexibility.
So my feeling is -- and I told you I'm very positive right very positive about what's going forward.
But I want to hedge my bets a little bit here.
So we want to manage the balance sheet so that we have a very prudent level of debt which we could expand if necessary and add for opportunity reasons or because something goes wrong we don't know about.
So I like the position we're in.
I mean we're expanding our margin.
We're growing the business.
We're keeping faith with what we put forward at Investor Day 10 months ago about the 10%-plus growth rate.
And so to be able to maintain the balance sheet at the level we have and do that I think is great for all of us because it gives us tremendous financial flexibility and that's what I'm trying to get.
So I like to be in a position where we can be very agile if necessary.
And we're still buying back shares and we're doing other things we need to do.
So that's kind of where I'm coming from.
Does that help Keith? Yes that’s great.
We'll go next to Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
I have a couple of questions.
One with regards to RIS.
Can you talk a little bit about your efforts vis-à-vis the enhanced commissions and maybe particularly how they kind of fit in in an environment where you see increase competition where exposure growth has been slow.
How were you able to achieve that? Could you just -- what was that second question? That was actually the first question.
Okay it was including net spend.
Okay good.
So Peter? I think again there's not going to be much change in my answer from what Dan's answered in prior quarters but enhanced commissions for us are about working with enormous transparency.
We work with carriers for fee-for-service in terms of value that we provide for the carriers Marsh Market Connect is a great example of that.
We have expanded enhanced commissions that are disclosed to our clients.
And then also embedded within our numbers is increased yield which is just getting more commission on placements again with transparency to clients.
So I think all of those initiatives that have been going on for some time have still been reflected in the second quarter and something that again it's not material in terms of the change for the overall numbers but has been a slight positive in the quarter.
Okay.
And you're able to achieve that despite the fact competition for this business is increasing in a kind of a stagnant exposure environment? Yes the competition is as you've outlined still very competitive but this is all about a value proposition that we provide to insurance companies and so again it's a separate revenue stream that is not linked to volume.
It's not linked to anything other than value that we're providing to clients again with a lot of transparency and to carriers.
Got it.
And the second question probably for Michele with regards to the Rewards Talent Communications can you shed some light maybe on how you've been achieving the double-digit organic growth? It's now 4 consecutive quarters of that even though employment levels remain pretty sluggish and the economy is still not really as robust as one would have hoped? Sure.
Glad to do that.
I think we will see that segment of our business continue to grow strongly and the reason is because of the demographic shifts that are occurring in the world.
And in these major developed countries in particular we see that while we have unemployment rolls that do not seem to be lessening we have clients that have a need for skilled labor and not enough people who have those skills so they're competing significantly for talent and engineering and executive ranks et cetera.
So the strategy they need to have on a broad base to retain major groups of employees is quite significant.
So I think you will see that continue because demographic trends will not abate in this area and that presents major opportunities for us [indiscernible] over those issues in the years to come.
That will come from Michael Nanitsi [ph] of Goldman Sachs.
Just a question for Vanessa on the debt quick one are you going to include that refi charge in -- or are you going to include or exclude in next quarter's earnings -- or adjusted number I should say? It will be a separate line item but it will be included.
That's why we wanted to point out the size of the charge so that you could bake that into your third quarter outlook.
Got it.
And then just want to see -- understand how you're thinking about -- so $9 million a year benefit from lower interest expense I think it is what you said.
Is that right? Yes.
And then it was a $73 million cost? Sure let me break it down because it is -- if you think about the bonds the 2014s and '15s were trading at that time there were $62 million of embedded premium in where they were trading.
So you're going to pay that one way or another right? So the true cost the way we look at it is there was a $7.5 million charge for the incremental premium about 10 basis points on one issue and 15 on the other to tender for the bonds to bring them in.
There's $7.5 million there and $1.5 million of dealer fees.
So it was really from a true charge perspective it's a $9 million cost.
And we get a $9 million recurring benefit.
I see.
So the $73 million is because you paid higher than par on the Retirement? Right they're both trading above par right? So you’ve got to pay at least market and then a small market premium to bring them in.
Got it.
Okay.
So is it fair -- when thinking about that to think about the $9 million in terms of savings versus -- when you're deciding whether or not you're going to manage this end of your balance sheet do you think about the cost to retire versus the benefit you get and is the difference the premium you ascribe to reducing your exposure to liquidity in '14 and '15 for example? It's a couple of things.
First of all we were looking out and saying in today's interest environment to be able to print a 4.8% coupon bond was an opportunity we didn't want to miss when we're looking out and saying in '14 and '15 you got $1.4 billion due in 14 months which -- the biggest driver here was knocking that spike down and being able to push it out for 5 and 6 more years.
And then coupled with a dramatically lower interest rate for the 10 years that we have seen over the course of the last few years.
Okay.
That helps.
And if I could one quick one on the Guy Carp side any commentary on cap bond issuance this quarter and how’s that business -- how’s Guy Carp’s business there performing? Alex please? It's performing well and there is increased demand.
Also as we've mentioned before on the CWILP we've seen increased demand.
We’ve actually issued more in the first half than we did in the last 2 years so activity is good.
We'll go next to Thomas Mitchell of Miller Tabak.
LLC</strong> Just sort of a minor housekeeping question which is you didn't have any restructuring charges to speak of this quarter.
Should we anticipate that the restructuring period is now officially ended? Officially ended.
Well I'll put it this way.
We had quite a bit of work to do over the last several years to position the company properly certainly in risk and insurance but secondarily in Consulting given economic conditions.
We've done that.
I mean we are thinking about growth -- but look we're always looking and we're always trying to improve the structure.
And if we found things that needed to be done that required restructuring we would do them.
But our plan is to take what we have now and really grow this company.
We'll go next to Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
In the Risk and Insurance Services segment adjusted margins are largely unchanged year-over-year.
And I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you feel organic revenue growth can outstrip organic expense growth for your year? Dan? Sure.
I mean one I would start by saying that our adjusted margins in the second quarter in RIS are about 100 basis points above prior.
You may be referring through the first 6 months of the year and on that basis we're slightly ahead on adjusted margin basis and it's what -- we would be reasonably ahead if not for the headwinds of pension and foreign exchange.
In terms of what we can do in the future I mean one part of my new role has really been digging into each of our businesses and look at what our strategies are what our organic strategies are what the pipeline looks like for acquisitions and what kind of efficiencies we can seek.
And I'm very happy to say that in our collective view there's plenty of opportunity for us over the next several years to not only increase our earnings but to expand our margins in both segments.
Okay.
And then separately on the share buyback trend how would it work out if there were to be a new repurchase authorization put in place? Would that have to go to the board and potentially what time frame could that take place in? Jay yes the board approves these things.
We would recommend it.
We have expressed to you and all of the investment community that the share buybacks are part of our capital management on a going-forward basis particularly as we continue to grow good positive cash but it is a board decision and the board will decide when it decides.
I can’t tell you anything more than that.
I mean there’s no -- it's not like it has to happen at a certain time in the year right? No you could do it tomorrow I mean.
But the board has its scheduled meetings and things like that.
But yes I mean it's not a seasonal thing.
There are no other questions at this time.
Well listen thank you very much for joining us.
We had an outstanding quarter and that's all because of the hard work of all of our colleagues around the world and I want to thank them terrific job.
See you next quarter.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Third quarter 2011 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties.
In particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2011 or subsequent periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this call over to Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter results as reported earlier today.
I'm Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Dan Glaser Group President and COO and Vanessa Wittman our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating company CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Mike Bischoff.
Following my comments Dan will discuss our operating results in more detail.
Vanessa will then update you on our financial position.
Before we begin our discussions of the third quarter I'd like to take a moment to recognize and thank Michele Burns for her many contributions to our company over the last 5 years.
Michele became Mercer’s CEO in 2006 and led Mercer through a period of growth despite severe turbulence in the global economy.
Last month we announced that Michele has accepted a new role: to build and lead a retirement policy center.
I believe this center has the potential of making a major contribution toward finding solutions that address the retirement issues facing the United States.
I'm excited that Michele has agreed to take on the challenge of leading this effort.
We are now searching for a new CEO of Mercer and until a successor is named Dan will be overseeing Mercer’s operations.
Now let's move to our third quarter results which reflect our ongoing strong performance.
We generated revenue growth of 11%.
On an underlying basis revenue growth was 5% and we continued to achieve this growth while maintaining effective control over our operating expenses.
This led to an increase in operating income of 30% and growth in adjusted operating income of 18%.
Let's turn to our operating companies.
The positive momentum at Marsh continued this quarter with underlying revenue growth across all geographies driven by higher client revenue retention rates and new business development.
Guy Carpenter also generated impressive results continuing its trend of producing quarterly underlying revenue growth which has extended over the past 3 years.
Mercer produced underlying revenue growth of mid-single-digits as it has over the past year.
Oliver Wyman's strong revenue growth continued reflecting broad-based growth across its major industry sectors.
So throughout Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies we've seen revenue increases and higher levels of profitability.
This record of performance is very much in keeping with the goals we articulated at Investor Day in September of 2010.
It's now been more than a year since then so I think it's appropriate to step back and look at the progress the company has made.
We're implementing our plan to establish Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies as an elite global growth company valued by clients our colleagues and shareholders.
We articulated a strategy focusing on 4 pillars: growth in revenue and earnings per share low capital requirements high cash generation and reducing the risk profile of the company.
As you look at our performance since Investor Day the achievements are evident.
Over the last 4 quarters the company has produced underlying revenue growth of 5% and I'm pleased that each of the operating companies contributed to that achievement.
Marsh grew by 5%; Carpenter 5%; Mercer 4%; and Oliver Wyman grew 9%.
Our goal is to produce underlying revenue growth while maintaining expense discipline thereby generating at least 10% organic growth and adjusted operating income over the long term.
I'm pleased to report that we are achieving our goals.
We have produced revenue growth across the entire enterprise.
We have continued to make investments for future growth.
And we've done this by limiting -- while limiting our adjusted underlying expense growth to 4%.
As a result I am very pleased that over the last 4 quarters Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies generated organic growth in adjusted operating income of 13% an outstanding performance.
This earnings growth combined with our dividend yield of 3% is a very attractive result for our investors and in keeping with the goals we articulated at Investor Day more than a year ago.
Additionally we've continued to maintain low capital requirements and generate high levels of cash.
Operational changes throughout the organization we believe have lowered the companies' risk profile.
Our financial position has strengthened during this period as well which Vanessa will discuss in a few minutes.
As we move forward we remain committed to focusing on profitable growth and prudent redeployment of our excess cash flow in order to produce outstanding long-term returns for our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Dan to review our third quarter results in more detail.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies continued its strong performance in the third quarter.
We generated underlying revenue growth that have paced consistent with prior periods with impressive growth in both operating income and adjusted operating income.
Let me go into a little more detail on our operating results.
In the third quarter we achieved revenue growth and increased adjusted operating income at each of our operating companies as we have for each quarter over the past year.
In the quarter revenue rose 11% to $2.8 billion while underlying revenue growth was 5%.
Adjusted operating income increased 18%.
Risk and Insurance Services revenue was up 11% to $1.5 billion with underlying revenue growth of 5%.
And with ongoing effective expense management adjusted operating income increased 13% to $186 million.
The adjusted operating margin increased 20 basis points reflecting slightly higher margins at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter.
This is also indicative of the segment's performance year-to-date where the margin has increased to 19.5% despite the effects of higher pension expense.
Marsh had another strong quarter.
Revenue increased 12% to $1.2 billion.
Underlying revenue rose 6%.
Marsh's high client revenue retention rate and new business development produced underlying revenue growth across all geographies led by strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America of 13%.
In the U.S./Canada division underlying revenue growth was 3% for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Marsh has maintained its disciplined expense control while still being able to invest in the future refine its operating model and absorb higher severance and pension expense.
As a result Marsh produced double-digit growth in adjusted operating income not just for the quarter but the year-to-date as well.
In August we announced a significant expansion of our South African operations with the signing of an agreement to acquire the insurance broking business of Alexander Forbes.
The transaction is scheduled to close by year end.
Now turning to reinsurance broking.
Guy Carpenter continued to produce strong results.
Revenue increased 8% to $251 million with underlying growth of 3%.
This growth was led by its international operations reflecting the successful execution of its long-term business strategy.
Over the last 3 years Carpenter has consistently produced quarterly underlying revenue growth.
It has been able to accomplish this through strong new business development and high client retention.
So in summary both March and Guy Carpenter produced strong financial results not only in the third quarter but for the 9 months as well.
Turning to our Consulting segment.
Our operations continued to generate strong revenue growth.
In the third quarter revenue rose 11% to $1.3 billion with underlying growth of 6%.
Growth in adjusted underlying expenses was 5% which resulted in a 50-basis-point increase in the adjusted operating margin for the quarter.
Growth in adjusted operating income was 17% not only for the third quarter but for the year as well with both Mercer and Oliver Wyman contributing to this strong growth.
Mercer continued the solid performance we have seen over the past year.
Revenue in the third quarter increased 11% to $975 million and underlying revenue growth was 4% with all geographic regions contributing to this growth.
Consistent with the revenue trends we have seen in Mercer’s lines of business over the past year retirement saw underlying revenue decline modestly.
Health and benefits had a fine performance with an underlying increase of 7% driven by strong growth in the U.S.
and Asia Pacific.
Rewards talent &amp; communications produced double-digit underlying revenue growth for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Outsourcing generated underlying growth of 1% reflecting growth in Asia Pacific partially offset by a decline in the United States.
And investment consulting &amp; management produced underlying growth of 10% with strong growth in the U.S.
and EMEA.
Oliver Wyman also had a good quarter with an increase in revenue of 13%.
Underlying revenue growth was 9%.
This growth was diversified with the strongest growth coming from the health care and consumer industry sectors.
Oliver Wyman's expense management also contributed to a solid increase in adjusted operating income.
In summary we are very pleased with the excellent performance of each of our operating companies not only this quarter but throughout the entire year both from a revenue and earnings growth standpoint.
Now let me make several comments regarding how the increased economic uncertainty that developed in mid-summer particularly in Europe may impact our near-term results.
Oliver Wyman is our most economically sensitive operating company.
We have seen some clients in the financial services sector defer decisions on new engagements thus making it difficult for Oliver Wyman to generate growth in the fourth quarter resulting in a modest impact on the segment's profitability.
Currently overall client interest remains high and the pipeline going into 2012 looks encouraging.
However there is a higher degree of uncertainty.
So that's OW.
At Mercer all signs indicate that the positive trends experienced in the first 9 months of the year are continuing and we feel that any near-term economic uncertainty is not impacting our Risk and Insurance Services segment.
So notwithstanding near-term economic issues we believe we are on target to have a very successful year and remain optimistic as we develop our strategy and business plans for 2012.
With that let me turn it over to Vanessa.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
As you've heard the strong financial performance of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies continued in the third quarter.
On a GAAP basis net income was $130 million or $0.24 per share.
Adjusted earnings per share was also $0.24.
Costs of $72 million related to the early extinguishment of debt from the tender offer are highlighted on a separate line in this quarter's income statement.
This expense is reflected in both our GAAP EPS and our adjusted EPS.
I should also note that our a GAAP and adjusted earnings are almost identical for the 9-month period as well.
Operating income totaled $1.247 billion and adjusted operating income was $1.252 billion.
As a result GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations year-to-date was $1.30 and adjusted earnings per share also totaled $1.30.
Now let me add some color regarding other items including our recent financing activities.
In the third quarter interest expense decreased to $49 million from $60 million a year ago.
This level of quarterly interest expense is a reasonable indicator of the run rate we expect going forward.
Several actions taken over the past 12 months substantially reduced our interest expense.
First was the payment of a $550 million debt obligation in September 2010.
Next in July of this year we took advantage of the interest rate environment through a tender refinancing effort to  extend our maturity ladder and reduce our aggregate interest expense.
We had $1.4 billion of debt coming due in 2014 and 2015 and we successfully tendered for $600 million of these bonds.
We funded the tender with $100 million dollars of cash and a new 10-year note for $500 million with a coupon of 4.8%.
We are very pleased with these transactions which allowed us to opportunistically refine our capital structure lower our refinancing risk in the intermediate term extend maturities of our debt portfolio at a very attractive interest rate and delever our balance sheet.
In total the actions taken over the past year reduce our annual interest expense by $45 million.
Turning to investment income.
In the third quarter investment income was essentially 0 compared with a $2 million loss in last year's third quarter.
Due to a decline in the equity markets in the third quarter we anticipate reporting an investment loss of approximately $10 million in the fourth quarter.
Moving on to share repurchase.
Since beginning our share repurchase program in last year's fourth quarter the company has repurchased a total of 15.6 million shares at a cost of $447 million including 4.4 million shares that were purchased in the third quarter.
In August our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program to $1 billion from $500 million.
Looking at taxes.
Our adjusted tax rate this quarter increased to 32.7%.
This compares with 30.4% in last year's third quarter.
A drop in the U.K.
statutory tax rate reduced the value of our U.K.
net deferred tax assets which was fully reflected this quarter.
This change in the U.K.
tax law put upward pressure on our adjusted tax rate in the third quarter but will slightly benefit our overall tax position going forward.
The higher tax rate in the current quarter also reflects a slight shift in the geographic mix of earnings.
While there may be volatility in our tax rate from quarter-to-quarter we still feel that for modeling purposes it is reasonable to assume a tax rate of approximately 31% over the next year.
Due to our high cash generation we were able to redeploy our cash in the third quarter in a number of ways including a $126 million per share repurchase $123 million for dividends $100 million to reduce long-term debt $72 million for the early debt repayment and $21 million for acquisitions.
This effective redeployment of capital will also contribute to our future growth in earnings per share.
And despite all of these actions our cash position increased $55 million during the third quarter.
Debt at the end of the third quarter was $2.9 billion.
We have a $250 million note due March 15 2012 which is our only debt coming due in 2012.
Last month we took advantage of favorable conditions in the credit market and were able to close a new $1 billion 5-year revolving credit facility to replace our existing $1 billion 3-year credit facility that was due to expire next year.
We are very pleased with the increased financial flexibility and reduced uncertainty resulting from the new facilities' extended duration.
With that I'll turn the call back to Brian.
Thank you and we're ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Keith Walsh from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question for Dan just around Consulting.
When I think about your comments about Oliver Wyman going into the fourth quarter maybe a little bit tougher it seems.
Maybe you could talk about that in the context of the margin.
It seems Oliver Wyman probably has a lot higher margin with the revenue per head being I think double what Mercer is.
And if you can kind of also talk in the broader context of just Mercer margins in general.
What do you think you can take that to over the next couple of years? It seems your competitors have some much higher targets out there although they seem to be going backwards at this point.
But if you could talk to that.
Okay.
So I'll talk for a while and then John will probably have some comments specific to Oliver Wyman.
But in general we don't disclose margins for individual operating companies.
We talk about this segment overall and so let me just start there.
For both Oliver Wyman and Mercer we believe that over time we will be able to expand margins.
And so we're very much focused on creating the business disciplines that are necessary in order to be able to commit to that so that's #1.
I'll leave it to John in a second to talk about Oliver Wyman specifically and what he's seeing in the market.
In terms of Mercer I'd start by saying Mercer is a really strong company.
It's large.
It's growing.
It's globally coordinated.
It's profitable.
It's got some great people.
It's got a great client list.
So I've spent a good part of my time in the last 5 months really digging into Mercer and a lot of what I see I'm pleased with.
My goal is to work with the Mercer leadership team to take all of this and make it better.
We can be more global.
We can be more profitable with better margins.
And we can be more innovative.
And so that will be the focus of the leadership team and I over the coming months and years.
So Keith just to expand a bit on what Dan said in his comments about Oliver Wyman.
In August and September when we were in a period there of tightened economic uncertainty and more market volatility it resulted in a slowdown in new sales for Oliver Wyman.
So while our third quarter results were strong with a 9% growth that will impact our fourth quarter and so fourth quarter will be weaker.
In particular the Financial Services sector especially the banking sector was where we were experiencing the weakness.
And as Dan said it'll make Q4 challenging one for us.
It'll be challenging for us to grow in Q4.
Now looking at what recent events mean in October sales picked up to back to a normal pace as the market seemed to stabilize.
And our client pipeline is encouraging at this point.
But obviously events of this week suggest there could be an extended period of uncertainty and we could see that coming back in.
So I think looking at the medium term I'd say we're very confident that Oliver Wyman is an attractive growth business and will generate margin growth as Dan said over that period.
But quarter-to-quarter we could fluctuate somewhat based on the economic outlook and uncertainty.
And obviously that's I think what we'll experience in the fourth quarter this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for my second question it's for Vanessa.
Maybe if you could just remind us regarding pension expense what was the change in the discount rate last year that led to the $12 million quarterly headwind we're seeing now? Keith I believe last year the aggregate -- because remember you've got to look across both the U.S.
and the U.K.
And on a blended basis it was about a 40-basis-point change but that's blended.
And you've got plans in the U.S.
and the U.K.
and then the rest of the world where those are individual calcs.
And that would have led to our change which has been about a "$12 million per quarter" impact over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Just taking that and you got about a 50-basis-point discount rate reduction year-to-date we're looking at in both the U.S.
and the U.K.
I would assume the impact in 2012 potentially would be of a similar magnitude ballpark.
As we have said in the past I know it's tempting at this point in the year and with the volatility that we see in the markets for us to make a call and give you a prediction.
But as we've also done in the past we're not going to give you a prediction.
We are very keenly focused on the changes but it's just not right for a public dialogue.
And what you can count on Keith is that as we have done to date we will -- we're watching it we're monitoring it and we'll continue to manage the business through next year to deliver on our commitments to our shareholders.
Moving on we will take our next question from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
First Vanessa wondered what the cash position you have right now? Is it possible to give us a sense of kind of what's U.S.
versus international? And basically what I'm trying to get at is how much cash is kind of available right now for repurchases? Well let me take that 2 ways.
The first is that we don't break out our U.S.
and international cash but I think that from our profitability you could probably safely assume that the bulk of that cash is offshore.
And from a repurchase estimation perspective we've been pretty consistent in saying that our #1 priority is investing in the business with 1a doing accretive acquisitions.
So as you're looking out over the course of the year we have committed to absorbing in our repurchase what we are issuing from an equities perspective to our colleagues.
But I think you should count on the accretive acquisitions and investments in the business first and we do have an acquisition in the fourth quarter that we expect to close the bulk of that Alexander Forbes acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then second question Dan and Peter I wonder if you could elaborate a little bit on the rate environment out there right now what you all are seeing? Sure.
This is Peter Brian.
The rate environment you need to take it into geographic locations as well as segments of business.
And what we've seen in the third quarter is less of a headwind so I would say it's been flat to slightly down in our overall portfolio.
Peak zones as well as property is starting to firm a little bit more but I would say it's low to mid-single-digits.
We've seen in the U.S.
some modest increase in workers' compensation.
Having said that excess casualty and professional lines we still see rate decreases year-over-year.
And then when we look across the world in other parts of Europe it still remains flat to down.
And again in other peak zones perhaps like New Zealand and Japan we've seen some price increases on property.
So it's less of a headwind for us than it was a year ago today but still I would say it's moderate to -- flat to moderate.
Maybe Alex you want to comment on the reinsurance side? Yes I mean pretty similar to what Peter said essentially it varies by geography it varies by cap zone.
Though we've seen in [ph] the U.S.
and Canada probably cap somewhere up between 5% to 10%.
Obviously in Japan some major increases on the cap side.
The rest pretty flat.
There's still excess capital in the market despite the sort of different influences from modeling and interest rates and macroeconomic inflation and so on.
We're not advocates of increased rates.
We try and get the best deals for our clients.
But we still feel that it's hard to gauge predict the impact going forward.
We'll take our next question from Larry Greenberg from Langen McAlenney.
Just wondering if you might be able to help us with the impact of foreign exchange on the Risk and Insurance Services margin.
And then I think Dan mentioned that you had some severance in there as well if it's possible to give us some color on that.
Sure.
First on the foreign exchange it had -- foreign exchange was neutral on our NOI in the Risk and Insurance Services.
But if -- just mathematically if it's neutral at your NOI line then it's going to have a drag on your margins.
So we don't want to really give you any more color than that.
And on the severance front we're not going to break out what the drag in the margins was but I think that the performance and the margin expansion in that segment is pretty impressive with bearing the FX the severance and the pension expense.
Okay fair enough.
And then just on the rate environment appreciated the comments on just the pricing piece of it but is there any more color you might be able to provide on what's going on if anything with terms and conditions? We've heard from some that the excess and surplus lines market is seeing changes with higher retentions lower limits some of the standard guys moving away.
Any color perhaps Peter that you could provide on that? Sure.
There's not a trend per se on whether it's the E&amp;S market or other terms and conditions getting significantly tighter.
I think we've seen through the third quarter releases from insurance companies that we have seen probably a little bit more discipline in the market in terms of looking at -- again each segment and each line of business and where they think they need rate.
So there's different perspectives on lost costs and what's happening with inflation.
And I think you're seeing more of a reaction to that than tighter terms and conditions in the E&amp;S market.
So I think there really is no specific trend that we saw in the third quarter or that we see really happening in the beginning of the fourth quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Meyer Shields from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me start with a couple of numerical questions if I can.
We saw both investment income on fiduciary funds and corporate expenses improve sequentially.
And I'm wondering if there's anything unusual in that or whether third quarter is a good run rate? Vanessa? Sure let me take them in pieces.
Investment income is separate from fiduciary funds.
So in the investment income we report that on lag Meyer and that is invested by a third party.
So we don't have good insight into -- we've given you the fourth quarter indication based on the third quarter as reported but we don't have good insight into where that heads from a run rate perspective.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I was just going to say that I'm focused more on the fiduciary funds.
On the fiduciary funds it did improve this quarter.
And those are funds we manage on behalf of clients.
We've been in this bizarre near 0 interest rate environment.
And we do invest those funds within a very narrow and strict policy range to make sure that they're highly liquid et cetera.
It did improve.
But I think tracking -- your best indicator there is tracking the overall global interest rate.
So we had some volatility in the third quarter that actually benefited us but rates are back down.
Your corporate spreads are up a little bit which you saw the benefit in the third quarter.
And kind of similar to our pension discussion calling interest rates is not what we want to do.
So I would use your best view as the run rate percentage there.
And the last part on corporate expenses you asked for a run rate there.
And if you look there are fluctuations quarter-to-quarter based on investments that we're making.
And particularly we had some changes in the second quarter with welcoming Dan to the corporate center.
But I think if you look over the last several years we have been at about $40 million a quarter for corporate expenses and that's a decent run rate to use.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if can follow up real quickly.
I know you got permission in 2010 to recollect contingents.
And I was wondering that itself should play a role in 2012 compared to 2011? Or is everything already fully up and running? Dan you want to take that? Sure.
I mean I would think broadly about carrier revenue streams.
So when we look at revenue in general we're looking at negotiating fee increases where we can with our client base.
Then when we look at the value that we're adding to carriers we negotiate where we can higher commission levels what we called yield.
Then we look at areas of fee for services or enhanced commission based upon helping carriers become more efficient.
And then we have that minor bit of contingent income which is largely in the Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency and in some parts of our business where we're actually an MGA.
But overall the negotiation that we have with carriers about levels of income we might receive is about the value that we're providing them and so that's a continual discussion.
It's not something that will stop.
That's an every-year thing.
And we're building up our capabilities to add more and more value so we think that we will be able to drive more carrier revenue over time on a multiyear basis.
We'll take our next question from Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question.
Can you talk a little bit about progress within MMC agency and initiatives there this quarter? And I just have one follow-up.
Peter? Sure.
With Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency we talked about this last quarter as well we feel very comfortable where we are about $300 million of revenue in the Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency.
Very strong pipeline as we continue to expand out our strategy.
There's no time frame in terms of when we want to build it out.
But looking at high-quality assets to add into our organization we think we're probably underweight a little bit in the middle-market space so we think there's a lot of opportunity to expand.
And from a financial standpoint we're on target in terms of growth and earnings and believe it'll be accretive in the second year which is a threshold we set for our acquisitions.
So overall we're very pleased.
Okay you had a follow-up? Research Division</strong> Yes I did have a follow-up.
I guess just mentioning 10% operating earnings growth and the expectation there I know Vanessa you mentioned you wouldn't talk about rates and the impact on pension expense but just kind of given where we are now is that a goal that you feel like in this rate environment is still attainable in the near term? Well it's a long-term goal.
And long-term goals you don't get there without going through the near term.
The answer is yes we believe it's attainable.
We'll take our next question from Jay Gelb from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions for you.
First in terms of the potential for margin expansion I realize there's a number of sort of non-core drag items on margin improvement.
But given the strong organic growth profile on revenues when do you think we'll start seeing it come through in Risk and Insurance Services? Okay let me talk about this segment overall.
And again I think margin expansion -- profit growth and margin expansion is both what we're focused on.
So when we look at it and we're in the height of budget season right now and planning for next year and looking at our plans over a number of years management's drive is how do we create profitable growth for the organization?  And we're very comfortable with our strategic positioning.
The quality of colleagues we believe in the industry leads the insurance business in the Risk and Insurance segment.
And so when we look at it we look at it as each year.
We would expect to be able to expand our margins and have profitable growth.
Now the fact that we have some headwinds -- and we've already forgotten in some ways about the fiduciary income headwind but since it came up earlier in the call I mean that is a significant amount of money that will eventually someday roll back into RIS and in particular into Marsh.
But we've been managing well through those headwinds and we will continue to do that.
So we will operate our business.
As long as we can keep expense growth underneath revenue growth we will be able to grow profit and improve our margin.
Research Division</strong> And then for Brian on the pricing side I'm trying to get your perspective on where do you see the current pace of price improvement particularly in the U.S.
Is this similar to a 1999 and early 2000 level where you saw positive rates of improvement in rates over time and just continue to build momentum? Well I'll tell you it's always tough to make these calls.
I've been through a few of these cycles not too many because we don't have too many hardening markets.
And the strange thing is they're all different.
They all start out for different reasons going in different directions.
So it is very hard to say yes this is exactly like '99.
Things are so much different than they were in '99 today I mean economically globally all that.
But I would say that one of the issues with that period was just kind of an exhaustion that took place that's the word I've been using and there was just nowhere else to go with rates except to go back up.
And that is the real question that we reached that point.
I think you've heard from Peter and from Dan and from Alex that there isn't a real pattern necessarily forming yet here.
Some ups some downs some sideways.
Nothing dramatic either way.
And so I think this is going to have its own characteristics and your call is as good as mine on when this all changes.
And one day we'll have answer to this.
That's what's great about it.
We'll take our next question from Adam Klauber from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> EMEA was clearly a strong point for the quarter.
At some point does that get impacted by weakness in Europe? Dan? Okay.
Well it really looks at what segment you're looking at.
I think the segment or the area that we would have the most exposure is in Consulting and specifically within Oliver Wyman and in the FS space.
That would be where that would most likely come from.
We are not seeing right now impacts with regard to turmoil in Europe in either our Risk and Insurance Services segment or in Mercer.
So logic would tell that that's probably where we would see it first but we are not seeing that now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one follow-up.
Mercer also had strong underlying revenue growth.
Is that coming more from new clients? Or more work at existing clients? The answer to that is it's always a mix churn.
Mercer has actually very strong new business development over the past couple of years.
And so that's certainly a big part of their growth particularly in areas where we have invested around the world such as health and benefits.
If you look at Mercer piece-by-piece the most significant areas of growth have been in rewards talent &amp; communications health and benefits and the investment space.
And so all of those areas are actually doing quite well.
But I'll just take a moment on rewards talent &amp; communications because they've had their fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
And really the core bread-and-butter rewards business is very strong across all regions and that includes consulting and data.
The compensation survey business again demand is up across all regions.
And there's high demand for talent management specifically leadership development and skills assessment in emerging markets.
So we're very well-positioned to capture that trend.
And I think at this stage 5 quarters in a row you would see that as a trend.
And our final question comes from Thomas Mitchell from Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just noticing that the cost of living seems to be rising while interest rates have stayed very very low.
I'm wondering if this environment is creating challenges for companies that would create new opportunities for your retirement and employee benefits business.
And I'm wondering is this more of a sort of a broad picture? Looking at over the next 3 to 5 years do these factors make a difference or not? They absolutely make a difference because clients need advice.
And when you see changes in the macro environment when you see legislative change then that heightens the need for advice.
And when we look at our business whether it's health care legislation or health care delivery changes around the world retirement as an issue -- retirement we don't expect that retirement is a declining business.
We know that the revenue has been in decline for the last number of quarters last year and this year.
But fundamentally we believe clients need solutions and that we are very well-positioned to invent solutions and innovate for our clients.
And so we're working hard at doing that now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay well let me ask you just a slightly different issue.
Life insurance companies who to some extent compete -- at least compete with your products in some ways and in other ways they're suppliers of products -- have been in a relatively difficult period with respect to various kinds of guaranteed contracts including guarantees that are associated with the variable annuity contracts.
Does that drive a number of customer inquiries about changing their plans? Or is what I'm really referring to much more of an individual -- purchase by individual market? I think well one our business is generally a B2B and also B2B2C so we're not really in the B2C direct space on things like annuities or life insurance sales.
So we're talking to companies.
Our dialogue with life insurance companies is around we all believe that annuities provide part of the answer and perhaps even annuities linked with long-term care are interesting products and we all are surprised at the lack of take-up.
And so there's I think a lot of interest around greater product in an annuity kind of format.
And for companies to look at how they can support that for their colleague base particularly if they've moved from DB to DC.
But the life insurance companies themselves would say it has not been a tremendously active market.
So let me close by thanking our 52 000 employees.
They have delivered another outstanding quarter and I'm grateful to you for all that you do your dedication and commitment to driving the company forward.
And I'm honored to serve as your CEO.
Thank you to everybody.
And goodbye.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation today.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Fourth quarter 2011 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties.
In particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2012 or supplemental periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our results as reported earlier today.
I'm Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Dan Glaser Group President and COO; and Vanessa Wittman our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our Operating Company CEOs Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarksi of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Mike Bischoff.
My remarks will focus primarily on our full year results and Dan will provide more detail on the fourth quarter.
Vanessa will then update you on our financial position.
Before we begin the discussion of our results I'd like to welcome Julio to our company.
Julio joined us as President and CEO of Mercer 2 weeks ago.
He comes to us from AIG where he held a broad range of senior positions over 19 years.
Most recently he was President and CEO of Chartis Growth Economies.
Julio has had a very successful track record of running large global businesses.
His strong leadership characteristics and international experience will serve him well as Mercer’s CEO.
Now let's move to our financial results.
I'm very pleased that we continue to deliver revenue and earnings growth across the enterprise.
Marsh &amp; McLennan's performance this year was outstanding.
In 2011 we generated revenue growth of 9% with 5% growth on an underlying basis.
Importantly we continue to achieve this revenue growth while maintaining control over expenses with adjusted underlying expenses increasing 4%.
As a result we produced 12% growth in adjusted operating income for the year.
In fact this is the second consecutive year that both of our operating segments achieved double-digit growth in operating income.
You've heard me talk many times since our September 2010 Investor Day about our plans to produce double-digit organic growth in adjusted operating income.
Over the past 2 years we have delivered against that goal averaging 11% growth.
Within Risk and Insurance Services revenue increased 9%.
Importantly underlying revenue growth of 5% represents a significant increase from the 2% underlying growth in the prior year and we generated 12% growth in adjusted operating income and margin improvement.
Marsh produced underlying revenue growth of 4% with all major geographies contributing.
This was driven by higher client retention rates and new business development.
Guy Carpenter also produced impressive results in 2011.
Underlying revenue growth was 5% driven by both ongoing revenue with new business development and higher retention rates.
This was a milestone year for Carpenter as well as revenue exceeded $1 billion for the first time.
The Consulting segment also delivered an impressive performance.
Revenue grew 9% with underlying growth of 5%.
Adjusted operating income rose 12% and the segment margin improved as well.
Mercer produced underlying revenue growth of 4% and Oliver Wyman's growth was 7% for the second straight year.
So in summary throughout Marsh &amp; McLennan last year we saw revenue increases and higher levels of profitability.
We are very pleased with this performance which confirms the investment case we articulated at Investor Day in September 2010.
We generated organic growth and adjusted operating income of 12%.
Growth in adjusted EPS was 13% excluding the early debt retirement and these are the earnings from which we plan to grow this coming year.
Our dividend yield averaged 3%.
We maintained low capital requirements.
We generated high levels of cash and we made progress on lowering the company's risk profile.
As we move forward we remain committed to focusing on profitable growth and prudent deployment of our excess cash flow in order to produce outstanding long-term returns for our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Dan to review our fourth quarter results in more detail.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 Marsh &amp; McLennan continued its excellent performance.
We generated solid growth in both underlying revenue and adjusted operating income.
For the sixth consecutive quarter we achieved underlying revenue growth at each of our operating companies.
Revenue rose 4% to $2.9 billion in the quarter while underlying revenue growth was 3%.
Risk and Insurance Services revenue was up 6% to $1.6 billion with underlying revenue growth of 4% and with ongoing effective expense management which is now embedded within the culture of the Risk and Insurance Services segment adjusted operating income increased 11% to $288 million.
The segment achieved a 90 basis point increase in margin while continuing its pace of investment in global analytics client technologies and strategic recruitment and absorbing additional severance costs.
The positive momentum continued at Marsh as it produced another strong quarter.
Revenue increased 6% to $1.4 billion in the quarter.
Underlying revenue rose 4%.
Marsh's growth was across all geographies led by increases of 9% in Asia-Pacific and 8% in Latin America reflecting high retention rates and new business development.
In fact for the year new business production exceeded $1 billion.
In the U.S./Canada division underlying revenue growth was 2% in the quarter.
Last month we significantly expanded Marsh's operations in South Africa Botswana and Namibia with the acquisition of the insurance broking business of Alexander Forbes.
The completion of the acquisition of Alexander Forbes operations in 5 other African countries is on track and Marsh continued to build its agency platform with the acquisition of Seitlin Insurance one of the largest insurance broking firms in South Florida with revenue of $24 million.
Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency now has annual guidance revenue of $330 million.
Now turning to reinsurance broking Guy Carpenter continued to produce strong results.
Revenue was $193 million an increase of 5% from both the reported and underlying basis.
This growth was led by its international operations reflecting the successful execution of Carpenter's long-term business strategy.
Carpenter has now produced underlying revenue growth every quarter over the past 3 years.
This growth was accomplished through ongoing strong new business development and high client retention levels.
Turning to our Consulting segment we continued to generate revenue growth.
More importantly both Mercer and Oliver Wyman contributed to double-digit growth in earnings and higher margins for the year.
At Mercer fourth quarter revenue increased 3% to $940 million and underlying revenue growth was 2% with all geographic regions contributing to this growth.
Over the past 10 months I have had an opportunity to explore Mercer’s businesses and analyze its strengths opportunities and challenges.
Overall I am very positive about Mercer’s future.
My key observations are that Mercer is a global leader in retirement health and benefits as well as talent rewards and communications and Mercer has important capabilities in outsourcing and investments.
Mercer has a committed and talented colleague base and deep client relationships and Mercer is well-positioned to continue to expand both organically and through selective acquisitions.
Julio Mercer’s new CEO brings a wealth of experience to his new role.
At Chartis he had responsibility for operations in Asia-Pacific Latin America the Middle East Africa and Central Europe.
Previous key leadership roles he held included President of the Worldwide Accident and Health Division at AIU.
I'm confident that Julio with the help of the Mercer leadership team will drive profitable growth.
Looking at Mercer’s financial performance for the year I am generally pleased with the results.
Underlying revenue grew 4% retirement declined 1% and outsourcing was flat.
Health and benefits talent rewards and communications and Investments all showed very strong revenue growth.
Turning to Oliver Wyman.
On the third quarter earnings call we indicated that it would be difficult for Oliver Wyman to achieve growth in the fourth quarter due to the economic uncertainty in Europe.
I am pleased to report that Oliver Wyman's results in the quarter came in slightly stronger than we expected with revenue of $406 million an increase of 2% on both the reported and underlying basis representing Oliver Wyman's eighth consecutive quarter of underlying growth.
For the year Oliver Wyman's overall results were also strong including underlying revenue growth of 7%.
In conclusion we are very pleased with the 12% growth in adjusted earnings per share the company produced in the fourth quarter.
This capped off a very successful year for Marsh &amp; McLennan both financially and operationally.
We remain confident regarding our ability to produce double-digit growth in operating income.
With that let me turn it over to Vanessa.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
As you have heard the strong financial performance of Marsh &amp; McLennan continued in the fourth quarter.
On a GAAP basis net income was $256 million or $0.46 per share.
Adjusted earnings per share was also $0.46 representing growth of 12% from the prior year.
We are proud of the tremendous progress made over the past year to greatly reduce items that are excluded from adjusted operating income.
As a result our GAAP and adjusted earnings for the year are similar.
In 2011 on an expense base of $9.9 billion and operating income of $1.6 billion the net adjustments to GAAP totaled only $23 million.
For the year adjusted earnings per share totaled $1.77.
This includes $72 million of expense related to the early extinguishment of debt last July.
Excluding this item the growth in adjusted EPS was 13%.
Now let me add some color regarding other items.
In the fourth quarter we took advantage of favorable credit market conditions by arranging a new $1 billion 5-year revolving credit facility that replaced the 3-year credit facility that was due to expire later in 2012.
This new facility increases our financial flexibility with an extended duration and reduces our costs going forward.
In the fourth quarter we had an investment loss of $4 million.
In the first quarter of 2012 we anticipate that investment income will be similar to the first quarter of last year which was $19 million.
Looking at taxes as you know the adjusted tax rate fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter primarily due to our geographic mix of earnings and discreet items such as audit settlements and valuation allowances.
For the full year our adjusted tax rate was 30% and we feel a tax rate of between 30% and 31% is reasonable for financial modeling purposes in 2012.
Discontinued operations for 2011 of $33 million includes a credit of $50 million relating to the sales of Putnam and Kroll the bulk of which relates to Putnam.
At the time of the sales we provided certain indemnities primarily related to tax uncertainties and legal contingencies.
The credit results from the resolution of tax and legal matters as well as insurance recoveries.
Also affecting discontinued operations is the impact of Marsh's decision to sell its life insurance BPO unit.
This unit provides policy claims call center and accounting operations to life insurance companies.
Marsh ceased investing in and is selling the BPO business.
Capitalized software of $17 million net of tax was written off in 2011.
These items are described more fully in the supplemental schedules in our press release.
Now let me make a few observations regarding pensions.
We have seen marked increases in our reported pension expense over the past 3 years primarily due to declining discount rates as well as the impact of asset losses in 2008.
At year end 2011 interest rates for longer debt maturities used to measure pension liabilities were significantly lower than the prior year.
The accounting for pensions is extremely complicated.
In addition to the effective discount rates and asset returns annual pension expense reflects the impact of factors such as salary increases over many years mortality rates demographics inflation and cash contributions to name a few.
Based on our year end measurement which takes all of these factors into account pension expense in 2012 will increase.
Net of bonuses and other mitigating items operating income will be reduced by approximately $20 million or $0.025 per share for 2012.
Moving to capital management.
Our cash position increased substantially throughout the year reflecting the strong earnings power of the company.
Uses of cash in the fourth quarter included $120 million for dividends and $121 million for acquisitions including Seitlin and a partial funding of Alexander Forbes.
For the year major discretionary uses of cash included $480 million for dividends $361 million for share repurchases $258 million for acquisitions $100 million for the reduction of debt in July and $72 million of expense related to that early extinguishment of debt.
Year-end cash was $2.1 billion.
In the first quarter anticipated uses of cash include the annual payment of incentive compensation awards our regular quarterly dividend of approximately $120 million about $100 million for acquisitions including the remaining portion of the insurance broking operations of Alexander Forbes and a $100 million tax-deductible discretionary contribution to our U.S.
pension plan.
We also have a $250 million senior note maturing in March.
We continue to maintain our financial flexibility regarding the funding of this maturity.
At the end of the year our net debt was $815 million.
This is our lowest level of net debt at year end since 1996 which speaks to our efforts in strengthening our balance sheet.
With that I'll turn it back to Brian.
Thanks Vanessa.
Operator I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Mr.
Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question I guess Dan in your commentary -- or this question's for Dan or Vanessa you mentioned absorbing additional severance costs in the brokerage margin.
Now but you do breakout restructuring and Consulting and corporate this quarter.
So I guess the question is what's the dollar amount threshold to when this gets excluded from adjusted EPS? Vanessa why don't you take that? Sure.
So Keith the way that we have approached restructuring is that if there are permanent changes to the business then it meets our threshold for restructuring.
And if there are changes that may be temporary or the dollar’s being reinvested then it runs through earnings.
So it isn't really a dollar threshold but a function of what's being changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question's for Alex.
A lot of news reports about the 1 1 renewal with some large insurers retaining a lot more coverage and buying less reinsurance.
Can you talk a little bit about how if any impact that would have on your organic revenues as I believe they were clients of yours? First of all obviously yes we have seen rate increases rate on line on catastrophic property in general somewhere between 5% and 15% on even loss-free contracts.
Companies are -- they do have budgets vis-à-vis what they buy.
Also we have fee business.
We have cats and remuneration.
So we will expect to have some tailwind but it's not going to be proportional to the rate increases and I'll take that little bit of wind any day.
We'll go next to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering more on the Marsh side if you could talk about the impact on pricing -- from pricing on your revenue.
It feels as if listening to the company and listening to the dialogue in the industry that things are getting better.
It did seem as if your underlying growth slowed basically in every region versus the third quarter.
I know quarter-to-quarter sometimes your comparisons get distorted but what's happening from a pricing standpoint? Is there more of a benefit now than there was say earlier in the year? I think Peter should take that Peter? Sure.
There absolutely is a trend of rate improving when you look at earlier in the year as well as year-over-year.
We generally speak about a theme of rate stabilization but you need to really break it down into components.
You need to break it down to geography segment of business and then also size.
If you look at the segments of business property is clearly the one line of business that's having the most rate impact and we saw that in our own portfolio within Q4.
Cat-exposed areas like Australia Japan New Zealand Chile and Thailand are having the impacts.
And if you go to you geography it's really the U.S.
and Asia-Pacific that are having the biggest impact.
There's more lines of business.
So for instance in the U.S.
we've seen property workers comp as well as excess casualty and general liability starting to increase and we'll see that trend probably into 2012.
But when looking at the rest of the international geography there are still headwinds particularly in casualty where rates are stable improving but still generally speaking down year-over-year.
So when I look at the U.K.
parts of Europe and Asia there's still a little bit of a headwind.
So you really need to look at the overall composite.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just to follow up given that throughout the year let's take the U.S.
where the rating environment didn't get better I guess I was a little surprised to see the organic growth rates slow in the fourth quarter.
Was anything unusual that impacted the year-over-year comparison at all? Yes in the U.S.
I think our performance is actually better than the 2% and I'll tell you why we had for some reason a lot more one-time items in Q4 of 2010 that came off and so they had a bigger hurdle in terms of growth.
And then they also had some impact on rate but in our U.S.
business we have a consumer business we also have stars and they didn't probably see the composite rate lift that the traditional part of the U.S.
did.
So I think the performance is actually better than the 2 and again we just had some one-time items that we had to overcome from 2010.
And we will go next to Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Vanessa when you give higher tax rate guidance for 2012 compared to 2011 does that reflect optimism in terms of the U.S.? I'm sorry Meyer I didn't hear your- - the last part.
You said -- can you just repeat the question? I'm sorry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Should we interpret the higher tax rate guidance in 2012 relative to 2011 despite faster growth outside the U.S.
as a reflection of greater optimism regarding domestic earnings? Actually we're fairly consistent '11 to '12 Meyer.
We just -- we can't pinpoint it precisely for you because we can't predict the exact mix of earnings.
So we had guided between 30% and 31% for '11 and we're giving the same guidance for '12.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Shouldn't I expect it to go down as international operations grow a little bit faster than the domestic ones though? Well that also is -- yes except for the fact that if you repatriate earnings back to the U.S.
you're subjected to the U.S.
tax rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good point.
And second question if I can is there any way of ball parking the impacts of the life insurance BPO business on recent either organic growth or margins? It was a small revenue business and I would say it has a de minimis impact on either revenue or margin in both the quarter and then the year-over-year.
And we will go next to Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a follow-up on Meyer's question on taxes for next year.
Clearly your peers have now either moved or are in the process of moving to a more favorable tax jurisdiction possibly putting you at a slight disadvantage from that sense.
Is that something you're thinking about? Yaron this is Brian.
You know what? I guess I'm not surprised by the question but I'm not going to talk about what other companies do or speculate about what we might or might not do so I'm really not going to comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes and then maybe talking about the -- about Julio’s appointment at Mercer.
This is now the second CEO appointment that comes from somebody from outside of the industry outside of the Consulting industry at least.
What does that mean about the talent pool or the executive base at Mercer today? How are you thinking about that and with a P&amp;C veteran coming in how long will it take before Julio is really ready to make some initiatives and changes in the business? Okay and I think Dan wants to take this question.
Well first of all we ran an exhaustive search and we looked at both internal candidates and external candidates and we had several strong internal candidates.
So really the way we phrase this in terms of how we were looking at it we really wanted to find someone truly exceptional that would be able to not only drive Mercer to better performance but also contribute at the executive committee level of Marsh &amp; McLennan and so I'm very happy with where we have landed.
I've known Julio for more than 10 years.
We've worked together at AIG and Julio brings all -- 5 of our 6 members of our operating company and leadership team with Brian and I have experience both on the insurance company side and on the brokerage side.
Julio has that but also adds an additional dimension in that he has experience in the consumer businesses and in health and benefit having run one of the largest health and benefits organizations in the world in AIU Accident &amp; Health.
So really the driver for us was getting somebody who had deep experience in running large global businesses had a lot of experience in running a matrix environment on a global basis was well-schooled in P&amp;L management and running a business from -- always having revenue exceed expense and really a track record where every job over the course of a 30-year career was more successful than the one before.
So in addition to a lot of inspirational and personal leadership characteristics I think I'm very comfortable that Julio will be a great addition.
Now how long it will take him to be fully up to speed I would give it another 2 weeks because he’s hit the ground running and based upon his questions he's getting there in a fast pace.
And we'll go next to Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to set the baseline for 2012 earnings.
Should we be thinking as in terms of $1.77 of adjusted earnings per share plus the $0.09 impact from debt extinguishment cost in 2011 so the baseline the starting point is more like $1.86 and double-digit earnings growth off that? Jay that's the way I'm looking at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the risk capital holdings it was -- so you're saying $19 million in the first quarter.
It was $9 million for all of 2011.
Should we expect a better result in '12? Jay that one’s too difficult to call.
We've really seen a lot of volatility over the course of 2011 and no reason not to expect the similar volatility.
We can -- we give you what we have as we've got it because we report on a one quarter lag.
We saw a very low number a negative number in Q4 which was really on the back of the horrible equity markets in Q3.
And then we -- for Q1 we saw the equity markets recover in Q4 and that's reflected in that -- in the $19 million number we gave you.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I mean if equity -- let's cross our fingers if equity market stays strong in 1Q that should be pretty good for second quarter results then right? Well your guess is as good as ours.
I don't know.
It's hard to speculate it really is Jay.
I wish we could give more but it's not something we have control of so...
Research Division</strong> I understand.
And then for Peter we had overall modest margin expansion in Risk and Insurance Services for all of 2011 what are the levers you have to generate margin expansion again in 2012? Well certainly we're going to continue on the path of having very strong client retention very strong new businesses as Dan said in his comments.
We had over $1 billion of new business.
We've been investing in 2011 for the future of 2012 and make sure that we're going to position our businesses for strong top line growth while controlling expenses.
And we've had a lot of strong growth across the world.
Dan gave you the quarter numbers but for Latin America we had 14% organic growth for the year.
Asia Pac was 9%.
EMEA was 4% and so we want to continue to focus on high-growth areas and make sure our investments are yielding that type of benefit on the top line and bottom line.
So we're very well-positioned for 2012.
And maintain expense control.
Alex is a part of this segment.
Well Alex why don't you add to that? Yes it's pretty similar to Pete's -- Peter's.
We've got a good revenue pipeline.
Our expense discipline is good.
Again the overseas the international piece is exciting.
Also on the facultative side we see good growth.
So we're cautiously optimistic we'll continue to improve the margin.
We'll go next to Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
I have kind of a Consulting and maybe it's a corporate question combined.
We're hearing that some of the retirement annuity companies are offering annuity products as a solution for defined benefit pension plans.
And I'm just wondering if from a corporate standpoint if that's something that you've looked at and maybe from a Consulting standpoint is that a product that you guys believe in? Is it a product that you recommend? Is it a product that competes with your business? Just curious how that fits into the grand scheme of things.
Well I'll take that Larry.
So it's Dan here.
A couple of things one clearly those type of products the large annuity products and pension buyouts so to speak have been around for about 20 years but they've gone through cycles of when they become more attractive to companies.
We're definitely in the mix with regard to not only creating those sorts of products but also advising clients on when it's appropriate to purchase some of that type of product.
And particularly there's been a fair amount of activity in the U.K.
and I would say that we're one of the market leaders in the U.K.
on that type of thing.
It's a de-risking approach.
And so from that standpoint oftentimes when a DB plan closes and freezes then it transfers in terms of responsibility from say the HR Senior HR Officer to the CFO and the CFO often would look at well how can we bring the risk down on a frozen plan and so we've been very actively engaged in that.
We don't think of that as a competitor to our capabilities.
We view that as one of the arrows that we have in our quiver to serve clients.
And is it something that you've considered from a corporate standpoint? Well yes I would answer that.
I mean we certainly -- we look at all the different possibilities for our plan.
Our plan is not frozen and we are constantly looking at it to make sure there's a proper balance of risk.
So it might be a product we could look at but I think the way we're handling the plan now is appropriate for us.
Okay.
So Dan I infer from what you're saying.
There's really not something terribly new that’s hit the market in the last year or 2 relative to the things that have been available for a while? Well what you've seen is product innovation but not new product.
And so there's nuance differences between the kinds of products available today and the kinds of products that were available 20 years ago.
I think what you're really seeing is the effect of having deep asset reductions and some level of recovery and certain companies staying with that level of recovery that we don't want to have risk of a deep asset reduction again so let's de-risk our plan.
And we'll go next to Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Mercer it seemed like most segments the underlying revenue growth was down somewhat from the last couple of quarters.
Is that being driven by Europe? Dan can you do that? Yes so as you can appreciate there is some movement around in all of our segments in particular on the Consulting segment from quarter-to-quarter.
So when I look at the full year of 2011 I'll start with the basis that we saw a double-digit growth in earnings in the segment and in both Mercer and Oliver Wyman.
Specifically with regard to the fourth quarter it wasn't abnormal reaction from Europe resulting in the result of it being 2% growth and actually areas that -- for example retirement which last year was minus 3% and is minus 1% for the year actually grew 1% in the fourth quarter.
So when I look at the drop in sequential growth rate in the fourth quarter I don't see that as establishing any new kind of trend for Mercer.
I would more look at the year which grew at about 4% as being more indicative of where the business is performing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one quick follow-up.
On margins you showed nice steady progress in both businesses up 40 basis points.
Can we expect nice steady progress again in 2012? I would say Adam that our primary focus is on growing our net operating income.
That's our focus and that's the thesis we put forward at the Investor Day so that's where we're going.
Now if you look at segments given our view of 2012 I think that's going to result in margin improvement in both segments.
But I got to tell you that to me the margin is -- it's a result of the work being done to get growth organically in our top line and managing our expenses and so it's a result put it that way.
We're primarily focused on increasing our income.
And we will go next to Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
So I guess a question on M&amp;A.
Should we expect I mean maybe excluding the Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency strategy and sort of the M&amp;A going forward there should we expect acquisition going forward to reflect sort of non-U.S.
acquisitions as opposed to looking at some M&amp;A in the U.S.? Not necessarily.
No I mean we're certainly interested in balancing out geographically.
We're balancing out our capability and we're looking for great acquisitions.
We're looking for really top-notch companies to join us and maybe in the U.S.
it would be nice if they were.
So we have a nice pipeline and we'll see where they come from.
[indiscernible] emphasis on that geography.
Okay.
And then maybe just going back Brian to your 4 pillars of success for the company I mean you've spent a lot of time talking about revenue growth controlling expenses and growth in operating income.
But I guess could you provide a little bit more color on kind of where the risk profile of the overall organization is? And maybe point to some specific things that you guys have done over the past 1.5 years 2 years to address sort of the risk profile of the business? Sure I'd be happy to.
We think the first line of defense is producing a product that's a quality product that's what the client has needed and then we have agreed to deliver and we deliver that product as promised.
And so that means real professionalism in our work.
It's attention to detail.
It's an operational thing and there's been a lot of work done on both Consulting and Risk and Insurance to improve the way we handle our business processes our business.
It produces efficiencies.
It produces better expense levels for us but it also produces a better-quality product.
That's our first line of defense.
Our E&amp;O [ph] risks are our largest risks.
So a lot of progress there and I think you can -- we'll see it.
We can see that in our own results so without getting into details we do see that in our levels of activity of issues that we have to deal with.
We've de-risked our balance sheet.
We've talked a lot about that.
That's an important component.
We have a lot of cash flexibility debt flexibility.
The other line of defense is really after the fact with the limits of liability and we've -- we were the first to institute limits of liability and we've got it on both the Consulting and Risk and Insurance now.
So I'd say that's been a very successful program for us and I think appropriate for where we are so -- and there's I guess another thing to talk about I probably ought to emphasize is when we're delivering our products we spend a lot of time in reviewing those peer reviews to make sure that it is of the highest quality and delivering the promises that we have made to the client.
So all of those combined I think has delivered a great result and the one thing -- the last thing I want to point out is we redid our code of conduct this year and that could be a pretty dry thing.
We wanted it to be alive embedded as part of the psyche of the company.
We call it The Greater Good.
It's something that I'm so proud of and there's a film that we produced around that I think is extraordinary.
It's won some awards.
But most importantly I think just the way we go about our work now doing the right thing producing the business in the best possible way is really part of who we are part of our culture.
So all of those combined I think has really taken a big part of the risk of this company out.
And we will go next to Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So Vanessa one question was on -- you kind of walked through the cash contributions for -- or cash-outs for 2011.
I thought that in the K you’d said you expected to fund $300 million or so in the pension in '11.
You didn't mention that.
I don't know if that's because those were nondiscretionary contributions or -- if you could help me with that I'd appreciate it.
Sure the -- what I called out was specifically the discretionary contributions in 2011.
Our contributions to the U.S.
and the U.K.
plan for the last couple of years have run about $300 million $320 million.
And then on top of that last year we had $100 million.
I mentioned that we have already committed $100 million of discretionary funding for 2012 and obviously we'll maintain our flexibility about making further discretionary contributions over time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then did the pension status factor into your decision not to buy back stock in the fourth quarter? And if it didn't what drove that decision? Sure the pension did not drive the -- have any interplay with the share buyback decision in the fourth quarter.
As we've said all along our share buyback plan and our uses of cash it will first go to accretive acquisitions.
And in the fourth quarter we had -- we were uncertain of the timing around the closing of the Alexander Forbes transaction which we had a partial funding of in the fourth quarter and we'll have the rest of the funding in the first quarter.
But that timing was uncertain until very late in the quarter so we stayed out of the market from a share repurchase perspective.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
And then just one follow-up if I could.
Maybe Dan or maybe Brian if you could talk a little bit about just the pipeline in Europe both on the brokerage and Consulting side? And I guess more on the Consulting side.
How is that looking today versus the end of the third quarter or late last year? I want to make sure the pipeline of what? Research Division</strong> Just business activity so on the Consulting side project.
Business activity?  Okay well why don't we start with John? He can tell us about Oliver Wyman.
Yes so on the fourth quarter or the previous earnings call looking ahead to the fourth quarter we had signaled that there was some weakness in our European business particularly in financial services.
I think we see that continuing a little bit into the first quarter of this coming year in 2012.
So looking ahead to the whole of 2012 I think we're seeing a macroeconomic environment that's broadly similar to what we saw in 2010 and 2011 and our expectations for our business growth are similar to the last couple of years that we think we'll stay in general on that similar trajectory.
Although for the first quarter in particular the carryover -- there will be a little bit of carryover from the weakness in Europe in the fourth quarter into the first.
Research Division</strong> So your baseline there is for Oliver Wyman is an environment in Europe and economic backdrop in Europe that's similar to 2010 and 2011? I think the global environment and the developed world environment as a whole we're seeing is similar to 2010 and 2011 probably a little stronger in the U.S.
a little weaker in Europe overall the picture for 2012.
Dan can talk about Mercer.
Yes it's kind of interesting in that if you look at our fourth quarter as an example and we look at countries which had greater than 5% organic growth you might see some surprises on that list.
As an example Portugal Italy Finland Norway Spain and Ireland all grew more than 5% in the fourth quarter.
So oftentimes the macro environment while it may have an impact it may not appear right away and it may it not be something that is a direct result of say macro factors or GDP factors in terms of what is actually driving Mercer’s growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And they're also your baseline expectation for Europe is similar as John's kind of a 2010 2011 sort of backdrop? I mean basically what we try to look at country by country is GDP growth and that our goal is to outgrow GDP.
And when we're outgrowing GDP we think we're doing well.
And so when we look at -- as we've done this year where we've had reasonable growth in both the RIS segment and also in Consulting in Europe we would expect that to continue.
We'll go next to Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So a little overlap with the prior question I think.
But so for 2012 should we expect outsourcing segment revenue growth to remain weak? And on the other hand should we expect Talent Rewards &amp; Communication to remain strong? Any color on those 2 would be helpful.
I mean as we go through our planning and we look forward in the year bearing in mind we're only in mid-February and so we're looking out over the whole year.
But in terms of what we have seen over the past couple of years we've seen very strong growth in Talent Rewards &amp; Communications investments in H&amp;B some weakness in retirement which started to abate a little bit by the end of the year but it's still a tough environment.
And with respect to outsourcing outsourcing was flat in the overall year and as we approach next year we're hoping to generate low single-digit growth in outsourcing but it's a competitive environment for a lot of different reasons and so we're not expecting any kind of significant levels of growth out of outsourcing.
Research Division</strong> And in talent rewards is that coming from a specific sector and/or geography? It's pretty well-spaced geographically.
I mean if you take a step back and just think about what are the kinds of concern "C" suites around the world it tends to be the same things right? It's a macro factor it's innovation it's risks and it's also talent management.
There -- even though unemployment levels are high in many countries the reality is for skilled positions and for critical positions actually there's a war for talent out there and so we are -- we advise across the human capital spectrum not only on rewards talent management which includes everything for paper performance kinds of issues performance appraisals colleague engagement surveys of -- compensation surveys broadly et cetera.
So when we look at our Talent Rewards &amp; Communications segment there are many sub-segments to it and they're all actually doing quite well.
Research Division</strong> Okay and lastly for Vanessa just to clarify in your prepared remarks regarding the pension expense it's $20 million higher in fiscal year 2012 expected versus 2011? That was the operating income impact so it is net of bonus et cetera.
It will roll down to $20 million at the operating income level or $0.025 a share.
And we'll go next to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> You commented a little bit about the impact of pricing on organic growth.
I was wondering if you could just talk about where premium audit sort of stand right now in the comparisons if there's sort of a flattening out versus a headwind if they're slightly positive? Peter? Yes I think at this point there's really no trend.
We haven't seen many decreases from any economic conditions and we haven't really seen much in terms of increases from inflation.
Certainly insured values are going up in areas where there's high inflation.
But generally speaking on the portfolio it's neutral.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you maybe update us on your growth efforts within the Marsh Agency business maybe just talk a little bit about deal pipeline competition for deals things like that? Sure.
We feel as we've commented in prior quarter's and Dan has in his opening comments that we're very pleased with where we are to date just acquiring Seitlin again another geographical expansion with a high-quality agency is another step forward to building out our plans over a 3- to 5-year period.
The pipeline is strong but we're very careful in terms of looking at opportunities that are going to give us a either geographical expansion or a product line expansion.
And so I think you can see us continue that pattern over the next 12 to 24 months.
Having said all that we're going to be very careful in terms of what properties we're going to go after.
The pipeline is very strong.
But again there's no timeline on when we're going to make these acquisitions.
Good well let me wrap this by saying we had an outstanding year last year an outstanding year.
And I want to thank first take the opportunity to thank our clients for all the business they give us and I very much want to thank all of our talented colleagues out there for your hard work and continued dedication to the company.
Thank you very much and thank you for calling in.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
First quarter 2012 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties.
In particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2012 or subsequent periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Mr.
Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our results as reported earlier today.
I'm Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Dan Glaser Group President and COO; and Mike Bischoff our CFO.
Before I continue I'd like to thank Mike for serving as CFO as we search for a permanent replacement.
With Mike's vast knowledge and experience we have not missed a beat.
Also I'd like to welcome 3 of our operating companies' CEOs: Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Unfortunately Peter Zaffino of Marsh could not be with us today due to a death in his family.
Following my comments Dan will discuss our operating results in more detail.
Mike will then update you on our financial position.
Our strong first quarter results are a terrific start to the year.
Across all our businesses we saw revenue growth and higher levels of profitability.
Underlying revenue growth of 6% combined with ongoing control of expenses resulted in growth of 12% in adjusted operating income and 13% growth in adjusted earnings per share.
This performance is consistent with our long-term plan to produce double-digit earnings growth.
Risk and Insurance Services had an excellent revenue growth.
Revenue increased 7% on both a reported and underlying basis.
Marsh produced another strong quarter generating underlying revenue growth of 7% with all major geographies contributing.
This growth was driven by both higher client retention revenue retention rates and new business development.
Guy Carpenter also produced 7% underlying revenue growth driven by its international operations.
The Consulting segment delivered excellent performance in the quarter as well producing solid revenue growth on both a reported and underlying basis.
Mercer generated underlying revenue growth of 4% and Oliver Wyman's growth was 6%.
Importantly Consulting's adjusted operating income increased 24% reflecting double-digit growth at both Mercer and Oliver Wyman.
We're pleased with our first quarter results.
Our performance demonstrates that we are fulfilling the strategic priority of generating consistent long-term growth in both revenue and earnings that we articulated at Investor Day some 20 months ago.
Our long-term growth allows us to continuously improve performance while investing back in our businesses to enhance our competitive position.
These investments include value-added products and technology for clients cutting-edge analytical capabilities and innovative processes which allow us to become more efficient.
Even more important as a professional services firm growth allows us to invest in our colleagues the foundation of our success.
As we grow the company the opportunities for our colleagues grow as well.
The work becomes more intellectually stimulating the environment more vibrant and there's pride in working for the company.
And as our strong performance continues growth becomes a virtuous circle that builds on itself.
Growth becomes a powerful force that's good for clients good for colleagues and good for our shareholders.
It's an exciting place to be.
And with that let me turn it over to Dan to review our first quarter results.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
In the first quarter Marsh &amp; McLennan's excellent performance continued.
We generated significant growth in underlying revenues which combined with effective expense control produced double-digit growth in both adjusted operating income and earnings per share.
The first quarter sets the stage for the rest of the year so we are pleased that each of our operating companies generated strong results and are off to a good start.
Risk and Insurance Services revenue increased 7% a very strong performance.
In fact 7% is the highest underlying revenue growth rate we have generated in a decade.
Profitability increased at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter.
Adjusted operating income increased to $415 million and the adjusted operating margin for the segment improved 40 basis points in the first quarter.
As I've said in the past we are continuously investing in our businesses.
We seek high-value initiatives that support growth and have effectiveness and efficiency and ultimately strengthen our competitive position.
Marsh produced another strong quarter.
Revenue increased 8% to $1.4 billion.
Underlying revenue rose 7%.
This growth was across the board with all geographies contributing including notable growth in the U.S./Canada division of 6%.
And in Marsh's International division growth was 18% in Latin America 10% in Asia Pacific and 5% in EMEA.
We are pleased with the growth in the International division considering the very strong results in Latin America and Asia Pacific in last year's first quarter.
Marsh's excellent growth reflects the continuation of outstanding new business development.
We are very pleased that client revenue retention rates improved across the board reaching the highest level since the first quarter of 2003.
Guy Carpenter continued to produce strong results.
Revenue in the first quarter increased 5% to $357 million.
Underlying revenue growth of 7% was driven by Carpenter's international operations including strong growth from global specialties Continental Europe and Asia Pacific.
Carpenter's revenue growth reflects its highest level of first quarter new business development since 2003.
This strong growth now extends the trend of Guy Carpenter’s quarterly underlying revenue growth into the fourth consecutive year.
Turning to our Consulting segment.
Revenue was $1.3 billion a 4% increase on both the reported and underlying basis.
One of our strategic initiatives is to increase the level of profitability within Consulting.
Our first quarter results indicate that we're off to an excellent start.
By creating greater linkage between underlying revenue growth and expense growth both Mercer and Oliver Wyman contributed to Consulting's double-digit growth in earnings and a higher operating margin.
Adjusted operating income rose 24% to $162 million.
The adjusted operating margin increased 200 basis points to 12.4%.
Mercer’s first quarter revenue was $957 million an increase of 4% on both a reported and underlying basis.
We had particularly strong growth in Latin America Asia Pacific and Canada.
Looking at Mercer's underlying revenue by line of business: Investments grew 7%; Health &amp; Benefits increased 6%; Talent Rewards &amp; Communications rose 5%; Outsourcing increased 4% and Retirement was flat.
Julio Portalatin joined us as Mercer’s CEO in February and he hit the ground running bringing a new vitality business acumen and expense discipline to Mercer.
Oliver Wyman's revenue increased 5% to $356 million.
The timing of revenue from contracts with acceptance provisions occurred earlier than last year primarily within Financial Services.
This represented slightly less than 1/2 of Oliver Wyman's 6% underlying revenue growth in the quarter.
Oliver Wyman saw strong revenue growth in the Consumer and the Health &amp; Life Sciences sectors.
Health &amp; Life Sciences is an important long-term growth sector for Oliver Wyman as health care companies face enormous challenges.
Changes impact payers providers and pharmaceutical companies alike.
Over each of the past 2 years revenue from Health &amp; Life Sciences has grown double digits and is Oliver Wyman's fastest-growing sector.
In conclusion we are very pleased with the growth throughout each of our operating companies.
This is an excellent start to the year.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
As Brian and Dan have discussed the company has continued to deliver excellent financial performance.
Consolidated revenue was $3.1 billion in the first quarter an increase of 6% on both a reported and underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income grew 12% to $530 million and the adjusted operating margin increased 100 basis points to 17.4%.
On a GAAP basis net income was $347 million or $0.63 per share.
Adjusted earnings per share was also $0.63.
This represents growth of 13% from the prior year.
Since Dan has already covered the details of our results by operating segment let's move on to a few other areas.
During the quarter we refinanced a $250 million 6 1/4% senior note that was maturing.
We took advantage of low interest rates to secure a rate of 2.3% for the new $250 million 5-year senior note.
Our next debt maturity also $250 million is in February of next year and we have taken additional steps over the past year to improve the financial performance of the company.
Last July we successfully completed a $600 million tender and refinancing that extended our debt maturity ladder and reduced interest expense.
In November we closed a $1 billion 5-year revolving credit facility with lower rates that replaced our 3-year credit facility which was scheduled to mature later this year.
These transactions increased our financial flexibility refined our capital structure lowered our refinancing risk extended maturities of our debt portfolio slightly delevered our balance sheet and lowered interest expense.
Corporate expense in the first quarter was $48 million which is higher than normal.
The primary reason for this is that certain members of our senior management team became eligible for retirement this year.
As a result their equity grants and stock options including those granted this year must be expensed over several months instead of over the normal 3- or 4-year time period.
This will have an even greater impact to corporate expense in the second quarter.
But after that corporate expense should return to a more normalized level.
Investment income this quarter was $20 million compared with $19 million in the first quarter last year.
In the second quarter we anticipate that investment income will be approximately $5 million compared with an investment loss of $6 million in the second quarter of last year.
Now turning to capital management.
Cash utilization is typically the greatest in the first quarter primarily due to the payment of incentive compensation awards.
Our cash position at the end of March exceeded $1.4 billion compared with $1.3 billion a year ago.
Other uses of cash in the quarter included discretionary pension contributions of $100 million into our U.S.
plan and $100 million into our U.K.
plan.
Dividends were $121 million in the first quarter.
And for acquisitions we spent $73 million the largest of which was Alexander Forbes.
At the end of the first quarter net debt was $1.5 billion compared with $1.7 billion a year ago.
With that I'm very happy to turn it back to Brian.
Thank you Mike.
Operator we are ready for the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> No question the top line looks exceptional but I guess the question is if I think about the organic growth the implied expense growth is pretty substantial as well.
And why is that especially with higher-margin Guy Carpenter up you're pretty much up across the board especially in some of the international businesses where it's higher-margin I would have expected the margin to be a lot higher.
If you could just talk to that.
Okay I think Dan ought to take that.
Dan? Sure.
First of all I'd start with the overall company.
And the overall company's margin improved by 100 basis points in the quarter so it's a good quarter from a margin perspective.
In RIS we had over 9% growth in adjusted operating income and as you stated margins were up 40 basis points.
Now the important thing is a couple of things: one we're confident that we will continue to improve margins in that we are on a path over time to continue to improve RIS' margins as well as Consulting's margins.
Now you can always squeeze out a bit more margin in any one quarter but our leadership team is very much focused on investing consistently and really constantly to not only invest for the future but deliver good results today.
It's important to remember though that investing while it's a constant it's not necessarily consistent quarter-to-quarter.
It impacts us in different ways and there's moving parts along there.
And I'll just give you a little bit of background on some of the things we're doing in the RIS segment.
I mean right off the bat we've been investing pretty actively in both Guy Carpenter and Marsh in strategic recruitment over the past several years.
In March alone since 2008 we've added almost 450 senior vice presidents and managing directors to the firm and 115 in 2011.
So that is rolling in.
Also we're laying the groundwork in our RIS segment for some pretty strong operational improvement which would help us improve client service while capturing some of our scale so we really do think that we're investing for better efficiency in the future.
That will take multiple quarters really even 2 or 3 years before we fully manifest the benefits of that.
We've created several centers of excellence for Marsh recently around analytics.
So for cat modeling for risk economics for benchmarking some of the things that Peter really learned at Guy Carpenter and built at Guy Carpenter we're building some of the things within Marsh and obviously that costs some money.
Research Division</strong> And then just the second question.
The top line just significantly higher than what I had in the model and I would have thought thinking about you guys as a fee -- primarily a fee business especially in the U.S.
why are you seeing that kind of growth? Can you -- are you getting lift on fees that you're charging customers? Can you just give a little more color around that because it seems like it's a lot higher than I would have thought.
Okay so there's really 4 factors that are generating our good growth in RIS and in Marsh in particular.
So the #1 factor is improved client revenue retention which as we mentioned in the script is at its highest level since 2003.
Now client revenue retention there's a lot of things that go into client revenue retention including the outcome of fee discussions or commission discussions with carriers.
It's all in the revenue retention line and so that is the leading reason behind the growth.
The second leading reason is new business.
New business was up 9% in Marsh.
As we mentioned on -- in the script Guy Carpenter had its highest new business first quarter since 2003.
The third reason is pricing trends.
So pricing trends are complicated.
We could probably spend the whole hour talking about pricing so I don't want to do that.
But I would say that property rates are being impacted more than casualty rates.
And if you look at the U.S.
property workers' comp excess casualty are all up moderately.
General liability and D&amp;O are still slightly down.
If you look at the National Brokerage segment which is our upper middle market and middle market it's all up moderately across the board.
In International EMEA is flat to down Asia Pacific was up in cat property and flat to down in non-cat and Latin America is flat to down except in cat.
So from a pricing standpoint it's not a headwind but I wouldn't call it a tailwind either.
You have to really look at well what geography are you talking about what line of business are you talking about.
It's very segmented and since we participate across all of those segments it's muted from our perspective.
And the fourth area that underpinned our strong growth and it's in that sort of order in terms of the impact the fourth area is exposure unit.
So both from a total insurable value and from a payroll standpoint both were mildly higher.
So overall just talking about Marsh specifically for a second because I think it demonstrates the broad strength of the growth it was very well distributed.
Every region had a growth rate better than the fourth quarter and better than their run rate for the full year 2011.
We had 22 countries with greater than 15% underlying growth and 30 countries with greater than 10% growth.
Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
On the Consulting margin my memory serves that you had been a bit more focused on improving the profitability in Europe; that that was a priority.
Is that perhaps what's driving the bigger part of the Consulting margin improvement? Then secondly Dan you mentioned the revenue associated with I can't remember exactly what you called it early acceptances helping the Oliver Wyman number.
Is that something that's going to negatively impact prospective quarters? Okay.
Dan why don't you take the first piece and John can talk about the...
Perfect.
So in terms of -- as we've mentioned before we're committed to improving the Consulting segment margins over the next 2 to 3 years.
So from that standpoint we'll very much align expense growth to be lower than revenue growth and in that way we'll improve the margin.
I'm not sure where the European focus came from but it really doesn't stand out as a particular area that we have to improve the Consulting margins.
I mean we're generally looking to do that across the board.
Many of our Consulting businesses run as much on a line of business global basis as they do on a geographic basis so you can't fix one without the other.
So we're doing both at this time.
John if you take the other piece.
Sure.
So over the past few years procurement departments for Oliver Wyman's larger clients have become more heavily involved in contract negotiations and this has led to general acceptance criteria being added into contracts for certain Oliver Wyman projects.
These acceptance provisions create situations where revenue for work delivered in early parts of the year were reported as revenue in later quarters once those acceptance criteria were met.
Based on an analysis of our experience with these acceptance provisions we're now able to better align our reported revenue with the timing of project delivery.
So as Dan noted our reported results for Q1 includes the impact of this improved alignment which did result in higher year-over-year growth in the first quarter and represented a little less than half of our underlying revenue growth in the quarter.
And to your question Larry it would then play out that the growth later in the year would be lower because of the same effect and probably most principally in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions here.
First just quickly back in the question from Larry.
The Oliver Wyman revenues was there any impact on margins also in the quarter in Consulting from that timing on revenues? John? Yes there was some impact but it wasn't significant and the Consulting margin growth would have continued to be -- or the profit growth would have been 20% or more.
But it did have a positive effect of some amount.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Brian I wonder if you could talk about just thoughts on Europe and impacting business.
It doesn't seem like the weakness in Europe is having much of an impact on your business right now.
I think it is having an impact certainly it's having some impact on Oliver Wyman particularly in the Financial Services component.
It would have some impact -- we're in recession in parts of Europe so exposures will be down.
So I wouldn't diminish it but I think the interesting thing is take Oliver Wyman they're -- they've been able to really improve in the U.S.
counterbalancing that.
So I think it basically highlights the benefits of having a global structure and being able to take advantage of the areas where we have significant growth and Dan pointed them out.
But Julio do you want to comment a little bit? Yes I would love to.
Thanks Brian.
We saw a low- to mid-single digit growth in the U.K.
and the broader Europe and the continent and although the macros in Europe of course are challenging and you just have to read the newspapers to see that our sales activity still remains pretty strong.
And as you know we have a pretty balanced portfolio at Mercer.
It's a pretty global operation for us.
We look at this as geographically and by line of business.
And if you note that 70% of our revenue is pretty much reoccurring revenue in Retirement Outsourcing and Benefits area especially Investments as well we've had a solid base of renewal business as well.
So if Europe continues to worsen of course it affects everybody but that's why it's important for us to maximize our global footprint and ensure that all areas are really achieving their objectives and continuing to move on all cylinders.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> With regards to market conditions in the P&amp;C space what I've been hearing a lot is that it's an income statement-driven marketing transition.
So first do you agree with that? And then if you do what do you think would the outcome be for the market if this turned out to be a benign year in terms of weather events? Well I'll start by saying it's always great to try to characterize these.
I mean they all have to have a name I guess what this market is.
I mean the one thing is it's always a little different.
Is it a hard market? I think not in the definitions we would apply.
I think Dan pointed out that maybe there's some benefit in some areas for the carriers in terms of rate but it's not across the board and there are lines of business where rates are going down.
Whole geographies where rates are down except for cat.
So I don't know what you would call it.
For us it's just the market.
That's the market we're in.
But Dan you wanted to add anything? Yes I would just -- we don't -- we've been in the business here a long time and market cycles our brokerage and risk management advisors work through the cycles and the cycles tend to be more downward pressure than upward pressure and so we don't -- we build our business around that fact.
When we look at this generally the market follows levels of losses and the levels of losses have been specific to geography and specific to lines of business so it's a pretty targeted correction of rates in certain areas but not a broad-based "blood in the eye" hard market where underwriters are en masse walking away from clients.
I mean we don't see that.
There's still competition for new business.
There's still innovation in the insurance market.
And so overall it's a market which doesn't have a tremendous amount of conviction in either direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then looking ahead to the summer on the Consulting front what would the impact best case/worst case scenario be of the Supreme Court decision regarding health care reform for Mercer? Julio? Yes let me comment on that if I may.
The Health &amp; Benefits business continues to be an evolving business in the U.S.
and if you look at it to a certain extent also globally.
Here of course with the Supreme Court's spending decision on individual mandate or maybe even more of an impact across the board we're well positioned really for all types of outcomes depending on how the Supreme Court rules.
And we've got significant amount of activity taking place for example in the private exchanges.
We've got good activity taking place globally again reminding everyone this -- we have a global business with our H&amp;B where a lot of things are happening.
And we're investing appropriately to make sure that whatever outcome comes out of the U.S.
portion of that we're well positioned and we believe we are.
We'll go next to Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In the first quarter we saw much faster earnings growth in the Consulting business than RIS and I'd like to get your directional thoughts as to whether you think that trend will continue.
Dan? Yes.
Well one we made up a lot of ground in RIS over a number of years and we've really expanded our margins so the pace of margin improvement in Consulting is not a surprise to us because Consulting had reduced margins through the economic downturn and now is recovering from that.
When we look at our overall focus is on long-term delivering 10% or better improvement in adjusted operating income and that's our first thing is growing profitability.
Secondarily we focus on margin.
But as I was saying before margin can be a little bit of a fool's game.
You can get the margin you want and it actually hurt your business over a mid- and long term and so we're very much focused on continuing to invest in our business as we go forward.
When I look at the Consulting business in general when you look over the last few years the adjusted margin in Consulting in 2009 was 10.3% then 11.4% then 11.8% so I wouldn't get ahead of ourselves necessarily and say that 200 basis points is the new reality quarter-by-quarter.
We look at expenses aligned with revenues so revenue grew by 4% expenses grew by 2%.
That's what gave the big lift.
Obviously our expense growth when we factor in April 1 raises will tick up a little bit which would create a squeeze in that basis point improvement unless we grow the top line more.
So our focus though in Consulting is growing the margins in a sustainable way and we believe that it will vary quarter-by-quarter but we'll deliver that margin improvement over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Okay then also just one follow-up.
Dan you gave a really complete overview on what the drivers of the RIS growth and Marsh in particular.
Were those in rank order? Improved client revenue retention new business pricing exposure was that from the greatest benefit to the least? Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First quarter obviously a big cash usage quarter for you but you are sitting on a fair amount of cash in the balance sheet and obviously you'll be seeing that ramp as the year progresses.
You've talked about the trade-off in the past of how you think about deploying cash either M&amp;A or repurchase but I was wondering if you can maybe refresh your thinking there in the trade-off given that we haven't seen repurchase in the last couple of quarters.
And then also maybe some commentary on your view of the M&amp;A environment pipeline in both Brokerage and Consulting in current deal -- pricing of deals in current environment.
Okay well we’re happy to.
Yes we don't -- we have -- simply it's been to have an authorization to buy back shares.
We haven't bought them back in the first quarter because as you cited it's a high-cash usage quarter.
But we certainly have the intent to buy back shares through the year.
As Dan as you pointed out my priority is always acquisitions accretive acquisitions would be the preference because of its growth aspects of that.
But we did say that we certainly want to acquire at least enough shares to blunt the dilution from our equity grants that occur.
So that runs -- pick a number $150 million a year or something like that would be the equity grants levels.
And so that certainly is something that you should expect us to do through the year.
Past that we certainly will weigh the choices and it’s what's the most accretive use of cash after that.
In terms of the acquisition pipeline we feel good about it.
I think we have a lot of very interesting opportunities.
Some come to fruition some don't.
We do take a look at a lot of things and I would not limit that to necessarily just the agency business of Marsh.
That pipeline is good but we are looking at some other things.
We want to grow our business either by adding components that we don't have which will enhance the capabilities sort of our R&amp;D approach through acquisition or just to increase geography.
In Marsh with the HSBC acquisition and then the price -- the Forbes acquisition we increased geography significantly.
I hope we can find some more like that.
We keep looking.
So I think growth through acquisition is an important part of our long-term growth and you heard me talk about how we believe in that.
So I hope that answers your question Dan.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Yes most of my questions have been answered.
Just a quick one for Mike Bischoff.
Interest expense just give us a sense if you don't mind for the balance of the year what the quarterly run rate’s going to look like given the refinancing? Jay that's a very good question.
When we're looking at interest expense it was about $46 million this quarter and the $250 million refinancing with 4 percentage points off will contribute an additional benefit of about $7 million to $8 million.
Because we did that maturity in March it really did not impact the first quarter so you'll be looking at about a benefit of $1.5 million to $2 million a quarter.
Our next question comes from Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
I guess maybe a broader question for Julio now that he's been at the company 90 100 days.
Maybe if you could talk about the strengths that you see of the Mercer organization and maybe some of the challenges if you will ahead for the near and intermediate term.
Thanks for that question.
I have been here now today is actually my 3-month anniversary so just to celebrate that.
But over the past 3 months I've traveled extensively as you can imagine and met with large numbers of clients and colleagues and I've been very impressed really with the deepness of the relationships we have with clients and the real added value that comes from our employees and colleagues around the world.
I’ve also as you can imagine spent quite a lot of time immersing myself in the business itself and all of our financials and some of the things that may come out and pop out as potential opportunities.
On balance I'm very excited about what I've learned so far.
Mercer's a strong global company.
It has a solid position in all of our major businesses and at the same time we're also very excited about the potential notwithstanding our strong position as I stated.
In terms of early decisions the things that I've been focused on most have been largely internal.
However at the same time we’ve kicked off a strategic planning process and my goal is that by the end of the second quarter we have a clear perspective of where we want to take Mercer over the next 3 to 5 years.
But I must tell you though as I look at our global footprint it's really terrific across 40 countries.
Maximizing that footprint certainly will be one of the things that we'll be focusing on as we look at the strategic direction of Mercer going forward.
That's helpful.
And then I guess another question for Mike.
I mean stock option expense I know you said it might tick up I think in the second quarter.
Did you quantify that or is there any way you could help us quantify that? If you look at our supplemental schedule on Page 9 you'll see a specific item with regard to stock option expense.
And as you recall this is information that we provide quarterly so that people can get a better idea not only of the movement there but some of our noncash items.
And you can see in the quarter that it went up by $4 million.
We certainly would expect that while it's not just stock option it also includes the restricted stock the total equity awards.
And you certainly would -- we expect it to go up an additional $4 million to $5 million in second quarter.
And then after that we will absorb the accelerated amortization and we'll go to a more normalized corporate expense run rate for the third and fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On ACE's quarterly call Evan Greenberg noted that some of the data system monetization from the big 2 brokers had started taking root.
I was wondering if you could sort of describe that not necessarily a quantification but what inning you're in in terms of expecting revenues from that? Sure.
Okay well Dan? A couple of things.
One we do provide market consulting and data analytics to insurers.
And basically those services make insurers more competitive on our clients' business.
I mean they get more competitive because they set their appetites more clearly in the business that they want to see and therefore their quota submission ratios go up making them more efficient.
And also because they are targeting their submissions they can have their buy-and-quote ratios improve as well and so that's something that they’re very interested in.
Overall we've described many times and we've been consistent in our approach that we think that the real issue is carrier revenue streams from -- all carrier revenue streams.
And as we've said before we think that all carrier revenue streams create the potential for conflicts of interest and so we're very in tune with that and we believe that all brokers receive carrier revenue in one form or another and each of those forms requires a good system of internal systems and controls to make sure that we're managing conflicts properly.
At Marsh we've got many different businesses many geographies and so there's not a "one size fits all." So from our basis the most important thing we're committed to is transparency and putting the interest of our clients first.
In terms of amounts of money and what inning we're in this is -- in the aggregate when you look at carrier revenue streams you look at basic commissionable business as by far the biggest part in that will remain by far the biggest part.
And we're not going to break out individual aspects of carrier revenue streams.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that was helpful.
Is there anything analogous on the Consulting side? There is -- the only area that becomes analogous would be in Health &amp; Benefits and in some parts of the Employee Benefits business we're trying to create the same kind of big data insights to insurance carriers.
But that's really where insurance carriers participate on the Consulting side is in EB.
Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to margins I believe certain geographies and this is alluded to in the first question on the call overseas have higher operating margins is that correct? And if so is that one of the main reasons you're confident about improving margin dynamics going forward? Well the answer is yes.
Different geographies you have different margins.
Particularly in Marsh's International operations the margins are significantly higher than in the U.S.
and so growth rates where margins are higher will always lift it.
So no question about that.
Is that where you're getting at Mike? Research Division</strong> Yes so if we expected growth in Lat Am and certain parts of Asia to continue at a healthy growth rate then should we expect that dynamic to lift the margin going forward or is there other underlying things? I know growth is picking up in the U.S.
now.
Yes it's really a scale issue.
The size of our U.S.
business and our U.K.
business in particular makes our other regions look fairly small.
And so even though we've got better growth and very strong margins ultimately it will take quite a while.
So you're right and maybe when we're sitting here in 5 and 10 years from now we'll be able to really view it clearly.
But it's going to take a long time to have an impact.
The biggest impact is improving our U.K.
and U.S.
margins as we've done over the last several years and that would have more of an impact on our overall margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And lastly in regards to fee versus commission income.
In the recent past Peter who I know is not present today he's talked about pushing more fee-based business within the Insurance segment.
I believe the term he used is a la carte.
Does that mean the Insurance segment is less levered to insurance price increases in the current cycle versus the past? Dan? Sure okay.
So if you look broadly first of all Marsh is about 50-50 between fee and commissionable business.
It's weighted toward the U.S.
about 60-40 and weighted toward -- in favor of fee and weighted internationally about 60-40 in favor of commission.
What Peter was referring to the a la carte nature would be that some of the analytics and modeling and risk consulting that we do apart from the transaction within the Marsh world that we could create fee revenue from those streams as opposed to building it in as a bundled solution for our clients.
And so it's not movement of commissionable business to fee business.
It's actually just creating additional fee revenue.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on a question before Brian about capital deployment should we think -- should we interpret your position on buybacks to offset dilution as a change in terms of the priority you're giving to buybacks in terms of capital deployment or is that just kind of a nuance? And just one follow-up.
Thanks.
Yes -- no.
Nuance might be a better description of it.
I mean the priority is accretive acquisitions.
That remains and I hope it always remains that way.
But I did want to clarify that we do have an authorization for stock buybacks.
We intend to use it.
We won't use it every quarter because it may be that an acquisition is there or in the first quarter because we have uses of cash for other -- for our compensation.
But I just wanted to make sure everybody understood that there is this commitment to get at least the dilution neutralized and then from there we have to make decisions about accretion and which is a more accretive use of the cash.
I suppose there could be a time where we would have a whole year go by because we’d made acquisitions and didn't buy back shares but there is a desire long-term to do that.
I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Sure it does.
And then just one question on the -- you mentioned -- someone on the call mentioned investments that you're making on the expense side.
Just trying to think how much do revenues need to rise in order to allow Marsh to meet the overall earnings goal that you kind of outlined in Investor Day and is the threshold for growth higher now than it was at Investor Day just given the investments you're making on the expense side? Well I think Dan talked about that.
And I think what we're trying to point out is our goals are long term.
Our goals are double-digit growth in profitability.
And you've got to be intelligent about how you deploy your resources to ensure that that long-term goal can be met.
And it sometimes means that you have to put monies in investments which have long-term benefits.
You have a return-on-investment criteria that we apply.
So it's not that our goals changed.
We outlined a pretty simple arithmetic around growth in expense and growth in revenue.
And we are mindful of times when we have a higher growth rate we've got 7% growth rates here.
That's a wonderful thing because it gives us the opportunity to invest whereas if we have lower growth rates like we had in '09 and '10 we have to be intelligent about the investments.
Now we still invested but the opportunities the ability the flexibility we have enhances dramatically.
And so I thought it was a wonderful thing to be able to take that 7% growth rate and do something with it that will be in the long-term interest of the company.
And so that's where we are with it.
10%-plus growth in our earnings is the goal and we are going to continue to do this over a very long period of time that's the commitment.
Research Division</strong> And does that imply then that the growth of top line is sort of an enabler for the investing on the expense side and that you'll kind of look to that sort of 10% growth as a goal and hopefully increasing the quality of the earnings base but kind of managing the expense side given how much room you have to do that and still meet your financial objectives given revenue growth? Is that how should we think about that sort of trade-off? Yes that's the art of management.
I mean that's the beauty of it.
You said it in simple terms.
I mean it is a pretty simple thing to do -- I mean to say harder to execute.
And so we're not just going to squeeze out margin and have it drop to the bottom line if instead we could make an investment that is in the best interest of the shareholder long term.
So we're going to do the latter.
And as I said it's just flexibility and freedom and our degrees of freedom are rising.
Dan wants to add something.
Yes I would just point out that this is not a quarter-by-quarter thing.
It's not that you can manage investments so clearly that you just have it wholly aligned.
So you may see some quarters where you'll see bigger margin expansion as an example because it’s just not as consistently tied.
But what we're painting is what our philosophy is over a mid- and long term and that's what you'll see as our investors stay with us over the 5-year period 10-year period they'll see an overall consistency but it will vary quarter by quarter.
Our next question comes from Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Within Consulting Health &amp; Benefits and Reward Talents continue to have relatively good growth rates.
Is that more driven by new business or by growth at existing clients? Julio? Yes.
As you can imagine a good proportion of our business overall 70% is reoccurring revenue okay? And balance we really see that as being a strong driver.
Now there's been obviously new opportunities.
We’ve introduced new concepts to approach the markets especially in the H&amp;B business.
You go around the world you talk to CEOs about what's on their mind and obviously there's a lot of talent questions in their minds and we're providing solutions in those areas as well.
We’ve recently launched the Mercer Marsh Benefits that we think really gives us a excellent foothold in client-facing activities in a common and constructive way.
And it's proven to be in the early days pretty expansive in how it's working.
So there's a lot of things that are going on that impacts our business positively also on the new business development side.
But I'd like to remind again that 70% of our business is reoccurring and that's renewing at very good rate and very good opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one follow-up.
Outsourcing also actually had a nice turnaround from the last quarter.
Well I guess what's driving that? Well we had some wins in the early part of last year that came on in this quarter.
And as a result we saw some good year-on-year improvement on top line.
We continue to be focused on bringing new clients on that side of the business and have some good prospects as well.
I think we're going to end the call at this point.
But before I do there's a couple of things.
I want to first of all on behalf of all my colleagues extend our best wishes to Peter Zaffino and his family.
And lastly I do want to end by thanking the 53 000 colleagues around the world for your hard work and dedication which really makes this such a fun place to be and also thank the clients out there for continuing to support us.
And thank you for your interest in the stock and we'll talk to you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Second quarter 2012 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties.
In particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2012 or subsequent periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our results as reported earlier today.
I'm Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Dan Glaser Group President and COO; and Mike Bischoff our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Following my comments Dan and Mike will discuss our operating results and financial position in more detail.
Our second quarter results were excellent and indicate our continuing progress in establishing Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies as an elite enterprise.
Across all our operating companies we generated revenue growth and higher levels of profitability.
In the second quarter underlying revenue growth was 5%.
Combined with ongoing control of expenses and effective capital management we produced growth in adjusted operating income of 13% and earnings per share of 22% an outstanding performance.
Marsh produced another strong quarter.
All major geographies contributed to revenue growth of 6% driven primarily by new business development.
Guy Carpenter produced underlying revenue growth of 10% led by its international operations.
The Consulting segment delivered strong underlying revenue growth in the second quarter.
Importantly Consulting adjusted operating income increased 40% reflecting strong performance of both Mercer and Oliver Wyman.
When we established our long-term performance targets 2 years ago we understood the challenge and the level of commitment required since very few companies our size have been able to produce double-digit earnings growth over the long term.
Since we announced these goals Marsh &amp; McLennan has been successfully meeting these long-term earnings targets.
While we may not achieve double-digit earnings growth every year we remain confident that we can produce this level of growth over the long term.
We understand that to achieve these goals we need to continuously improve performance through investments in our business our technology and our colleagues and to make decisions that will enhance long-term growth.
This ensures that we will be conducting our business in a way that provides value to our clients stimulates and rewards our colleagues and delivers consistently strong returns to our shareholders.
So in closing we're very pleased with the second quarter and the results we have produced in the first half of this year.
With that let me turn it over to Dan to review our second quarter results.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
In the second quarter Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies continued to produce excellent financial results.
For the eighth consecutive quarter we achieved underlying revenue growth at each of our operating companies.
Risk and Insurance Services revenue was up 5% with underlying growth of 6%.
Adjusted operating income rose 14% and the adjusted operating margin improved 200 basis points.
The double-digit growth in profitability and the margin improvement reflect the exceptional performance of both Marsh and Guy Carpenter.
For the 6 months we achieved 110 basis points of margin improvement.
At the same time we produced these results we continued to make significant investments to enhance client service improve efficiencies and strengthen our competitive position.
Marsh produced another strong quarter.
Underlying revenue rose 6% with all geographies contributing.
Latin America increased revenue 14%.
Asia Pacific grew 10%.
EMEA grew 5% and the U.S./Canada division rose 4%.
Marsh's revenue growth reflects $281 million of new business in the second quarter.
This is the strongest quarter of new business in Marsh's history.
Guy Carpenter also produced strong results in the second quarter.
Revenue increased 7% and underlying revenue growth was 10% driven by growth across its international operations including global specialties Asia Pacific EMEA and Latin America.
This now extends the trend of Guy Carpenter producing underlying revenue growth for 14 consecutive quarters.
As we look at current conditions in the reinsurance marketplace with July renewal pricing showing signs of stabilization for property catastrophe coverage and risk retentions by several of Guy Carpenter's key clients increasing we expect only modest revenue growth in the second half of the year for Guy Carpenter.
Turning to our Consulting segment.
Revenue was $1.3 billion with 4% underlying revenue growth.
Our second quarter results show that we continue to make progress in increasing profitability as both Mercer and Oliver Wyman contributed to the segment's double-digit growth in earnings and a significantly higher operating margin.
Adjusted operating income rose 14% to $176 million the highest level of quarterly Consulting earnings in our history.
The adjusted operating margin increased 140 basis points to 13.1%.
For the 6 months adjusted operating income grew 18% and the adjusted margin rose 160 basis points to 12.7%.
Mercer's second quarter underlying revenue growth was 3%.
Results reflect increased revenue across all regions with strong growth in Asia and Latin America.
Looking at Mercer's underlying revenue by line of business: Investments grew 7%; Health &amp; Benefits increased 6%; while Retirement Outsourcing and Talent Rewards &amp; Communications grew modestly.
Oliver Wyman's underlying revenue growth was 8% in the quarter driven by double-digit growth in the North American region in the consumer and health and life sciences sectors.
Based upon current market conditions Oliver Wyman expects only modest underlying revenue growth in the third quarter.
In conclusion we are very pleased with the results our operating companies produced in the second quarter.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
Consolidated revenue was $3 billion in the second quarter with an increase of 5% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 13% and the adjusted operating margin increased 150 basis points to 17.3%.
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased 20% to $0.60 on a GAAP basis.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 22% to $0.61.
This is notable given weak economic conditions low interest rates foreign exchange headwinds and the ongoing investments we are making and continue to make in our businesses.
Interest expense was $45 million in the second quarter compared with $49 million last year.
The only debt maturity we have over the next 2 years is the $250 million senior note in February 2013.
As we discussed last earnings call our corporate expense this quarter is higher than normal.
This is primarily the result of accelerated amortization of senior ex equity awards.
This will that be an issue for the remainder of the year.
Investment income this quarter was $4 million compared with a loss of $6 million in last year's second quarter.
In the third quarter we anticipate reporting an investment loss of approximately $5 million.
Now turning to capital management.
Our cash position at the end of June was $1.5 billion.
In deploying our excess cash this quarter we used approximately $70 million for acquisitions and $100 million to repurchase 3.1 million shares and this was primarily to offset the effects of equity grants.
Since December of 2010 we have repurchased 18.7 million shares for approximately $550 million with $450 million remaining under our current board authorization.
Another major use of cash in the quarter was $121 million for dividends.
With the continuing European financial crisis we wanted to give you an idea of the magnitude of Marsh &amp; McLennan's European revenue and how conditions are affecting the results of each of our operating companies.
As you're aware we breakdown Marsh's revenue on a geographic basis and you can see for both the second quarter and the year-to-date that Marsh's revenue growth on an underlying basis in EMEA was 5%.
But we wanted to give you a little bit more richer detail with regard to our European position and revenue.
So in total the company generates about $12 billion of annual revenue with approximately 1/3 of this coming from Europe.
Our U.K.
operations which represent approximately 1/2 of our European revenue continues to perform well.
Now let's look at our recent results.
Of Marsh's $5.4 billion in annual revenue approximately 1/3 is in Europe with 45% coming from the United Kingdom.
Marsh's revenue in the U.K.
rose 6% for the second quarter and the first half of the year.
New business production was particularly robust in the U.K.
in the second quarter.
For continental Europe Marsh's revenue grew 4% in the quarter and 3% for the first half of this year.
About 1/3 of Guy Carpenter's $1.1 billion in annual revenue is generated in Europe and the U.K.
accounts for more than 75% of this revenue.
And Guy Carpenter's U.K.
revenue rose double-digits for both the second quarter and the first half of this year driven by its global specialties.
Continental European revenue growth was modest in the quarter and year-to-date for Carpenter.
Now turning to our Consulting segment.
Mercer's European revenue over the past year was $1.1 billion or about 30% of Mercer's global revenue.
The U.K.
represents just over 1/2 of Mercer's European revenue with low single-digit growth for both the first and second quarters.
This was true as well for Mercer in Continental Europe.
So even though European economic conditions have been difficult 3 of our 4 operating companies have continued to generate revenue growth in Europe.
Oliver Wyman has the greatest exposure to Europe with approximately 40% of its revenue coming from European clients.
Over the past 3 quarters Oliver Wyman has experienced modest revenue declines in this region.
But as you can see from our second quarter earnings release Oliver Wyman has produced excellent overall results in spite of the continuing weakness in Europe.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Brian.
Thank you Mike.
Operator I think we can start our question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And I'll take our first question from Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I guess the only thing if I want to nitpick the plus 4% in the U.S.
which is down a little bit but still better than your peers.
If maybe you could talk to that.
And in the context of your new business comment either Dan or Peter what are you guys doing? Is it more how well your clients are recovering in the large case part of the market versus the smaller end of the market? Or is it new new business? You're actually going out and winning accounts if you could talk to that.
And then I've got a follow-up for Julio.
Okay.
So Peter do the 4% U.S.
Yes.
Overall -- again when we report the U.S.
there's several segments that are within the U.S.
and Canada division.
We're very pleased with the growth that we've seen in the core U.S.
brokerage business.
And the trends have been very steady from quarter-to-quarter and expect that to continue through the rest of 2012.
To answer your question in terms of -- I think what you're asking Keith around the overall growth is we've had very strong client retention across the world we've had very strong rollover from new business last year.
We have had record new business in the second quarter which has grown around 10% year-over-year.
We're executing on our initiatives.
There's been less of a headwind in pricing in 2011 in the second quarter there were headwinds.
We're seeing some slight uptick certainly in property and other lines of business that are a little bit distressed so I look at excess casualty and some workers compensation.
So that's affected the U.S.
And overall as Dan said in his comments we've grown in every part of the world so we have a nice balance.
And when you've done all of those things together you get good organic growth.
Research Division</strong> And then for Julio the improvement at Mercer we can see it already.
You guys did a nice job given us some of the European sensitivity there.
But can you just give us an idea what's the plan to protect margins against potential declines in Europe as we head into 2013? Yes sure sure sure.
Thanks Keith.
First I want to say that I'm pretty optimistic about Mercer's profitable growth prospects moving forward.
Any business where you are in a mission to promote the health wealth and performance of companies' best assets which is of course their employees I think puts you in a good position for the future.
So you add Mercer's global footprint its innovative added-value solutions and I think we're in good shape.
But as you look at calibrating and always looking at what our revenue growth is going to be across the world we see opportunities that are popping up in different places.
Europe might be slowing down but we have a good business in other places like in the emerging market world.
We want to obviously have even more footprint there as time goes on and I think that's going to really give us some good uplift in the future.
Additionally again keep in mind that we have some businesses that perform very well in down times and others that don't.
And 70% of our business is annuitized; 30% of course is program- or project-oriented business.
And as we continue to flip that and get more of the annuitized business and less of the project business I think you'll see that we'll be able to continue to calibrate growth pretty well in the future.
Now that said any time that we're looking to make sure that our margins continue to expand we have to be very disciplined on the expense side.
We continue to do that and we'll always make sure that that is calibrated appropriately to what our revenue expectations are.
We'll move on to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Could you speak generally to the impact of currency in the quarter 2 results? And then also do you happen to have the GAAP pension expenses running to the results in the quarter? Michael? Yes thank you.
If you look at foreign exchange you can see on our earnings release that the currency impact was about 3% negative with regard to revenue.
That indicates that we're converting most of our major currencies: the pound the euro the Canadian dollar the Australian dollar into a stronger dollar.
And as a result not only did it have a negative impact on revenue but it had a modest negative impact on our operating income shared equally between Insurance Services and Consulting.
There was a question on...
Research Division</strong> Just pension expense.
With regards to pension expense as we indicated at the beginning of the year gross pension expense would be about $30 million higher for the entire year and gross impact would be in the low- to mid-20s.
And that obviously is equal over the course of the year.
So in this particular quarter pension expense -- when we file our 10-Q gross pension expense we show about $9 million more than it did in the second quarter of last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one additional question.
With regard to Consulting margins can you talk about how much Mercer versus Oliver Wyman is driving margin improvement? Are both of those driving margin expansion? Then on the Oliver Wyman piece to the extent that you're seeing a revenue slowdown there are there levers to continue to push margin improvement? Okay Dan I'll answer the first question which is that both of the components of the Consulting segment are driving good margin improvements so it's across the board.
But John do you want to comment anything on Oliver Wyman? Sure.
Well on Oliver Wyman margins I'd make -- I'd divide your question into 2 parts.
So one is if we experience revenue weakness in one geography as you are for example in Europe now it doesn't really affect our overall margin because we run our capacity on a global basis.
So for example in the first half of this year a lot of our people who are based in Europe would have been deployed in the United States or other geographies where growth was stronger.
So what really affects -- would affect our margin is aggregate global revenue weakness rather than weakness in any particular geography.
And when -- and we have levers to pull in those scenarios as well.
So as long as the revenue pattern is a modest decline we have disciplined compensation programs in place that reacts with respect to revenue decline so there shouldn't be a substantial margin decline.
That will come from Morgan Stanley Greg Locraft.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just go back to Europe because it is a big concern in some subset of the investment community out there.
And I guess what you've highlighted is that it's really 15% of revs that are at risk.
And I guess is there a decline in that 15% of the business that would jeopardize your double-digit operating income growth goal? Well let me try this Greg.
I think when we outlined -- decided to outline Europe we wanted to show that it's too simplistic to say 1/3 of our business comes from Europe because Europe is an interesting diverse area and a large portion of that's coming out of the U.K.
And so you have to -- if you're trying to decide the impact of Europe you have to first understand how the business is spread around and not just geographically but by component by our operating companies and segments because the Insurance business acts differently than Consulting certainly in recession periods.
So there's much more continuing revenue that gives us a ballast against economic changes.
So I wouldn't say it's 15% at risk.
I mean everything is at risk.
But I think what we're trying to point out is we have I think the last 12 months or so been experiencing issues in Europe and still have been able to handle that.
We believe we can continue to handle that going forward.
And I think as John said unless it's some overall complete meltdown of the global economy we feel comfortable of that exposure.
So I think Dan also wants to add something.
I'll just say a couple of things.
One even if you go back 5 years ago or so Europe continental Europe was not a high-growth area for us.
So it was a low to mid single-digit growth area and it's remained pretty much a low and single-digit growth area.
Our global network really benefits us quite a bit because while European companies might not be doing all that well in Europe they are doing as anybody else on -- with their multinational footprint.
So we're working on French companies around the world Spanish companies around the world and you often hear a refrain when you visit these companies about how they're not doing well in their local market but they're doing quite well outside of their local market.
Okay Greg? Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then any quick updates on the CFO search process that's under way? Well thanks for asking that question because it gives me the opportunity to thank Mike who's done a terrific job and continues to do a terrific job as our CFO.
So yes we're still -- we're in the interview phase.
So things are progressing nicely.
I feel very good about the process and I don't think I'll say anything more than that.
Next question will come from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> With total organic revenue growth in 2Q of 5% and the company facing some comparison headwinds in Guy Carpenter and Oliver Wyman on the organic revenue growth front what should we be thinking about in terms of overall organic revenue growth in sort of the back half? Well what we've told you is 2 of the operating companies who had pretty good results 7% and 10% they're not going to have those numbers in the second half.
We're not saying anything about the other 2 and there's a balance to everything.
And I don't live and die on the pure organic growth number.
It's managing your growth and your revenue and expense through the ups and downs the cyclicality seasonal cyclicality where the third quarter isn't that strong for Marsh.
But we don't expect that we would have issues with respect to our bottom line and we think we'll close out the year well.
We have a goal of double digit.
I firmly believe that that's a goal that we can achieve.
And so we're not -- I'm not just -- we're not talking about the rest of the organic growth but the fact that we have a goal to make a bottom line and we believe we can do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- in the Consulting segment with the 13% margin in the second quarter clearly an improvement versus a year ago.
Should we expect continued improvement in the second half on the Consulting margin? Well again I want to reinforce that our goals have been a growth in our operating income growth in earnings per share.
I'm -- I don't -- so each of the operating companies each of the segments they have -- they know what they need to do.
They know what the kind of growth requirements we have and so with respect to Consulting John and Julio know what's expected of them.
And so we would expect that they'll manage through this year and the next accordingly that may produce good margin improvements.
But the important thing for us is they produce those double-digit growth in earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on share buyback that sort of resumed in the second quarter after I believe no buybacks for the prior 2 quarters what's your outlook there? Well our policy about that is that we will buy back shares through capital management if we don't have alternative uses of that cash basically for acquisition.
So we would prefer acquisitions I would anyway because I think it's more accretive long term.
We have the minimum that we would buy back shares so that we don't dilute with our compensation issues.
But past that I think it's more what opportunities present themselves and actually I prefer that those opportunities come in the form of acquisitions.
But if not then we would increase our share repurchasing.
Moving on to Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to follow up on that if I can.
Does the turmoil in Europe present any increased opportunity on the M&amp;A front? Well that's an interesting question because that's -- usually the source of great opportunity is when there's trouble.
And so yes I guess that's a possibility.
I'm not signaling anything here but yes certainly a possibility.
But we've -- our acquisition approach has been more targeted to areas where we want to fill out that we're not as robust as we need to be.
That could be geographically also in capabilities.
And so if those opportunities emerge in Europe they'll have to get in line and meet the criteria that the other ones are meeting or exceeding.
So -- but yes certainly that's a real possibility.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to clarify something.
If you've got a Spanish client that's doing well in Latin America sort of their subsidiary does that revenue growth show up in EMEA or Latin America for you? That would show up in Latin America.
Moving on to Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
So I guess maybe for Peter.
Thinking about the new business growth in Marsh and the record quarter that you guys had is there anything in particular you guys are doing on that side to drive that growth? Any new products or anything you can talk to? Well thanks Ray for the question.
Certainly the first and foremost is execution.
We have a very strong pipeline strong coverage on our global sales.
We introduced years ago something called Marsh 3D which is define design and deliver and that really takes us through a thorough risk management approach in making sure that we're assessing every opportunity.
We've had a strong focus on growing share of wallet connecting our multinational network and where we can grow market share from clients that we already have.
And taking advantage of being a global organization.
We behave as one firm and there's great opportunities to collaborate and bring the strength of the organization together.
The investments that have been made over the years in terms of industry and specialty expertise there's a flight to quality.
When it's more difficult to place business in a very challenging market we've seen an uptick as a result of that.
And we're having more robust discussions around analytics and how we can be more thoughtful in terms of recommendations around volatility.
We expanded our own analytical platform to be able to do more stochastic modeling do more cap modeling on the larger accounts.
So that has given us opportunities for growth as well.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one quick numbers question I guess for Mike.
Just to confirm the operating income had a negative impact from FX on -- in both segments? That's correct.
From Langen McAlenney Larry Greenberg.
I was just wondering if you could quantify or give us some order of magnitude the impact of pricing underlying commercial lines pricing on your revenue growth.
Peter? Yes.
Pricing again it's a long answer if we went segment by segment.
I won't do that.
But you do have to look at geography line of business each of the segments and then look at the year-over-year performance.
When you start to take a look at what's the line affected most it's property.
So world peak zones cat exposed loss impacted business have seen the biggest rates.
In the U.S.
property is the one that stands out.
60% of our clients saw a rate increase but 40% saw either no increase or were modestly down.
You have to look at total insured values.
Those are starting to move again very modestly.
Excess -- I mentioned before excess umbrella and lead D&amp;O pricing is starting to move modestly but the excess layers are still very competitive.
And then workers' comp in the U.S.
based on the pressure of the accident years we've seen that go up in the mid-single digits.
You have to shift overlooking into the international.
EMEA and Asia Pac generally speaking if you take the peak zones out pricing was flat to down.
And we feel the same way about Latin America where pricing conditions were predominantly slightly down.
When you take all that together and look at the overall index that we have published with our top 20 countries with the top lines of business that I just covered we've seen around a 1.4% increase in price.
So I think that's had a modest impact in the overall 6%.
But I'm not going to give a specific as to what that contributed.
But again I said in 2011 it was a headwind and it's a modest help in 2012.
Alex do you want to -- I was going to answer Peter by the way.
Alex do you want to add to that? I won't be as expansive as Peter.
Essentially we calculate -- the effects on our results were about 2 to 2.5 points in the second quarter.
And that effect is diminishing since it's a pretty benign year compared to the first 6 months of last year.
And obviously we're in the windstorm season so we don't know how that will play out.
But yes we'll take the points and we'll see what happens in the second half of the year.
That will come from Mike Zaremski with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you touch on whether the operating strategy within Health &amp; Benefits is evolving in light of the Supreme Court decision including whether Marsh will move forward with the health care exchange initiative as I believe some of your competitors appear to be doing? Yes.
Julio? Thanks.
Thank you for the question.
We could talk for a long time about this topic because it's obviously a very appropriate discussion these days.
But first let me just level set a little bit.
Health care reform requires the states set up their own health exchanges or partner with or use the to-be-created federally facilitated exchange.
To date there's been about 16 states that have indicated that they will create their own exchanges 7 have said that they will not and another 16 are still studying their options.
The remaining states appear to have taken kind of a "let's wait and see" or "no significant activity" approach.
States have to submit a blueprint to the federal government by mid-November if they want to move forward with an exchange by 2012.
Otherwise the federal government steps in.
So establishing these exchanges is a very complex undertaking for the federal government as well as it is for states.
And they need a lot of help and assistance and that's where Mercer's coming in.
And a lot of individual subsidies and employee penalties are subject to if in fact you don't move forward with the degree of pace as outlined in my earlier comment.
Our primary role in all of this has been to provide expertise and advice to states on developing their perspectives and helping design their strategies.
So far we've worked with several states and we expect additional work with those and more over the coming months.
We're also spending a lot of time helping our corporate clients understand and prepare for these regulations.
We're working with our employer clients as they manage through the complex reform provide advice and solutions and we're partnering with carriers as well on new products that can help employers lower the cost of health care through the use of high-quality networks and customized care management.
One offering in particular is the Mercer Health Advantage which is getting good response in the market and we expect to have about 500 000 enrolled -- employees enrolled in this and similar plans for 2013.
So this whole area is evolving very quickly it's exciting.
I think Mercer is well positioned to play a leadership role in the evolution of it.
I also want to add one more note that we've launched most recently the Mercer Marsh solution which brings both the added-value client-facing solutions for the market of both Mercer and Marsh.
And that's moving quite nicely as well.
Research Division</strong> I mean would you say to a certain extent that Marsh is taking a "let's wait and see" approach just because there's a lot changing? In terms of exchanges you're referring to? Research Division</strong> Correct.
I wouldn't say wait and see.
I would say be part of the solution and move forward and that's the approach I would like to take with this.
I think we have to make sure that we calibrate the opportunity with the investment necessary to take advantage of the opportunity as time goes on.
And I think we're doing that quite well right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly a follow-up to Jay Gelb's earlier question.
Could we get an update on what type of M&amp;A opportunities Marsh is most focused on? And Brian I recall last quarter you mentioned adding components and capabilities that Marsh didn't have.
I'd be interested in what those capabilities would be.
Well first of all we're -- the M&amp;A activity I guess begins with the Marsh agency.
We've been spending a lot of time on that.
And I think we have about $70 million spend in the quarter.
Some of that was agency some of that was continuing to spend for the African acquisition that we made.
So there -- Marsh is getting its fair share of this to expand both its capabilities in the U.S.
and geographically.
We didn't have anything else in the quarter for the other operating companies.
But what we've done typically is say in Oliver Wyman finding a segment.
I mean our life sciences segment which is growing dramatically now really started a few years ago with the acquisition.
And so trying to find a group of people who have the capability in an area that we're not as strong in would be a typical acquisition on Oliver Wyman.
And I think you would continue to see that going forward.
In Julio's case well there's -- I could pick a number of things.
I mean we've got a number of segments that he has that whether it's investments where we've made investments in the past to fill that out or it could be geography too.
It's hard to be specific because if I had one I could tell you about it.
So you just have to take the general comment that it's filling in areas that we feel we need to fill in.
We'll move on to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is I didn't quite catch this when you talked about Oliver Wyman in the second half having more modest growth what was the rationale behind that? John? So Jay I think there's 2 reasons for it.
First we're expecting the weaker economic conditions in Europe to continue.
So as we mentioned we're experiencing a revenue -- have been experiencing a revenue decline in Europe in the first half of the year and we expect that weakness to continue into the second half.
Now on the first half of the year that was offset by very strong growth in the U.S.
market and we're expecting that growth to taper a bit so therefore the overall growth rate would come down say from the 7% in the first half to something in the low-single digits for the second half and it's principally that.
There is a second reason which has a modest effect which is in the Q1 call we explained that we have timing of revenue from contracts with acceptance provisions that occurred earlier this year and this boosted our Q1 growth but will actually lower our second half growth particularly in Q4.
So that's the second effect.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then secondly I guess related to Europe my recollection is a lot of the European business -- as I recall I think it is in Marsh -- gets done early in the year and maybe that's true with Consulting as well I'm not sure.
As you're looking out towards the first half of 2013 given the environment which doesn't feel like it's getting much better over there is that the bigger risk when you look in the first half of '13? Let me start and then I think you guys could fill in.
But yes the insurance is sort of front-end loaded in the year early part of the year.
That's not the case in Consulting which is spread much more evenly throughout the year.
We've pointed out that Marsh had pretty good results certainly in the first half of this year both in the continent and in the U.K.
And so I would say we're not overly concerned about the renewal season.
There's a few things.
There's a lot that goes into what organic revenue looks like in all geographies but in particular in Europe.
So you have to first start with "Okay what's going on with GDP? And is the economy growing? Are exposure units growing?" And then you would say "Well what's happening with regard to rate? What's happening with regard to client retention? What's happening with regard to negotiations with carriers over commission yields? And then what's going on with new business?" So there's a number of factors that are at work that you aggregate them together and come up with your organic growth number.
I mean we think -- there's a few things particularly on the insurance side.
Companies in Europe will continue to buy insurance as of January 1 and that can be the announcement.
So Europe is -- while they're in difficult times in some ways having insurance protection with quality carriers and a top-quality intermediary is more important than when times are buoyant.
Okay Jay? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I appreciate that.
That will come from Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Margin expansion in Risk and Insurance Services was better in the second quarter than it had been in the last couple of quarters.
Is that partially attributable to strong growth at Guy Carpenter? And what else is driving that? Dan why don't you do that? Sure.
We're talking about margins in general.
As Brian pointed out earlier our first focus is growth and growth of actual profit our earnings and looking to do that on a double-digit basis in more years than we don't.
And then we also obviously look at margins.
So it's kind of like organic growth earnings and then margins.
And when we look at margins we start with both segments not just the RIS segment and we're -- our expectation is over the next several years we will improve margins in both of our segments.
And we'll do that for a variety of different ways but most specifically by calibrating expense growth with revenue growth and being very alive to what's happening on revenue week by week and month by month in calibrating our expenses accordingly.
When we look at our RIS as we mentioned in the first quarter we're making a lot of investments.
Those are not quarter by quarter as being perfectly timed so you see some level of ebb and flow on the cost of investments that roll through and the cost of strategic recruitment et cetera.
And so that all is playing itself out.
Overall we think our margins in RIS are strong; I think through 6 months may even be market-leading.
But on the basis we do believe we will improve them over time.
And -- but I wouldn't read into this quarter versus last quarter because we don't manage our business that way.
As we've described about Consulting in the past we expect more out of the margins in Consulting over time because the margins in Consulting through the recession had gotten lower than they've historically been.
So we are on a path back to our historical performance.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up.
The growth in the U.K.
was clearly strong but the U.K.
has been slowing down economically in the last 6 months or so.
Are you a bit worried about that? Well there's a couple of things about the U.K.
A very significant chunk of our business in the U.K.
on the RIS side is global business that comes to the U.S -- to the U.K.
for placement.
And so that's really a global phenomena as opposed to U.K.
only.
When you're looking at U.K.
only in specific you're really looking more often on the RIS side as Marsh's retail business.
And that's actually been performing well.
You're very right to point out that the U.K like a lot of places in the world are struggling with overall growth.
We have not seen that affect us to date but we're very watchful and mindful of that.
And that will come from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
Retirement Health &amp; Benefits were flat over the first quarter.
But Outsourcing year-over-year slowed and Talent slowed.
I'm just trying to understand kind of what happened there and how should we think about that.
And just one follow-up.
Yes.
On the Outsourcing front you may have recalled in the last quarter I talked about us benefiting from some of the year-on-year comparisons in the first quarter because of business that had been secured the year before.
And I think in the second quarter we felt a more year-on-year likely comparison I guess between last year and this year.
And we see Outsourcing continuing to be a support for our core businesses and we'll continue to manage it that way as we go forward.
I think what you see as far as growth pattern is very much within expectations.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Talent side? Talent is being impacted of course mostly from the discretionary side of the project work that we do.
There is a proportion of our business in the talent world that obviously is project-oriented and very much related to how corporations and clients are spending and their spending behaviors.
And certainly Europe would be one of those places where we've seen a bit of a slowdown on the discretionary projects.
We -- on the opposite end of that we've seen some good revenue growth in other parts of the world that's offsetting a bit of that challenge.
But that's some of the headwinds that we're seeing and we hope that that will continue to recover as time in the year goes on.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one -- I'm sorry if I could one more.
Brian is that okay? Yes please go ahead yes.
I was going to ask you to.
Research Division</strong> And then Oliver Wyman you kind of talked about.
It sounds like the driver of the expectations for slower growth on the back half of the year are not Europe actually it's the U.S.
and what may be happening there.
I guess my question is what's happening outside of the U.S.
and Europe in terms of Oliver Wyman? And how is that part of the world and part of the business doing? And within the U.S.
what exactly drove other than these contracts that you maybe talked about in the last Q and just mentioned briefly here? What else happened to cause that spike in activity? Okay John.
Yes.
So let me take the U.S.
part first.
I mean the fastest-growing segments we had in the business in the U.S.
and globally were our health care business and consumer business so that accounted for the spike.
Now those businesses jumped up quite a bit in the first half of the year so it's not that we're projecting adverse conditions for the U.S.
it's more that we don't expect the growth to offset as much as it did the European growth.
So we still expect to grow in the U.S.
in the second half of the year and grow at quite a healthy pace but probably not at quite the same rate as in the first half.
But it was driven by health care and consumer principally in the U.S.
In terms of outside the U.S.
in Europe about 15% to 20% of our business falls into that category and it's been sort of a mix of different outcomes in different regions.
Our business isn't large enough in any one region to say decisively.
It had -- certain regions have been growing faster over a long period time.
If you look just at 2012 which is perhaps your question we've been growing better in the Middle East in Brazil in Russia and not as strongly in Asia.
So that's been this year's pattern.
But again the businesses aren't large enough that the pattern changes from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.
So let me close this by saying that we had as I said earlier an excellent quarter and we couldn't have that without the hard work of our 53 000 colleagues.
So let me take this opportunity to thank them for their great work and also thank all of you on the phone for your interest in Marsh &amp; McLennan.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Have a great day.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Third quarter 2012 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin like remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risk and uncertainties.
In particular references during this conference call to anticipated or expected results of operations for 2012 or subsequent periods are forward-looking statements and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
Please refer to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' most recent SEC filings as well as the company's earnings release which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our results as reported earlier today.
I'm Brian Duperreault President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Dan Glaser Group President and COO; and Mike Bischoff our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Following my comments Dan and Mike will discuss our operating and financial results in more detail.
As you all know I'll be retiring at the end of the year so today is my last time that I will have the pleasure of leading our earnings call.
I'll say a little more about that later after we review our results.
First I would like to take a minute to discuss the effects of Sandy a storm of historic proportions.
As you're all aware recovery efforts are underway and the sense of normalcy is returning to impacted areas.
Full recovery in parts of New York New Jersey Pennsylvania and Connecticut may take months if not years.
The safety of our colleagues has been our first priority and we are grateful that we have received no reports of serious injuries.
From a business perspective we are fortunate that our offices have not sustained any significant damage.
Our colleagues are working diligently to assist clients who have been affected by this disaster.
We also commend our colleagues for the compassion and concern they have shown each other and for doing everything they can for their communities.
The storm underscores the critical nature of insurance and the crucial services we provide to clients.
While the market impact of Sandy is yet to be determined generally there is sufficient capital in the market.
However we do expect the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions will be under more scrutiny from underwriters on the heels of 2 major storms within 14 months.
Moving to our financial results.
I'm pleased with our third quarter results which reflect our ongoing strong performance this year.
We continue to deliver growth in underlying revenue and earnings in both of our operating segments.
This reflects our continuing progress in establishing Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies as an elite enterprise.
In the third quarter consolidated underlying revenue growth was 3%.
Combined with ongoing control of expenses and effective capital management we produced double-digit growth in adjusted operating income and earnings per share an excellent performance.
Risk and Insurance Services produced another strong quarter.
Underlying revenue growth was 4% with both Marsh and Guy Carpenter contributing.
Adjusted operating income rose 13% with Marsh an expansion of 130 basis points.
The Consulting segment also delivered solid underlying revenue growth in the third quarter.
Adjusted operating income increased 15% reflecting double-digit growth at both Mercer and Oliver Wyman.
The adjusted operating margin expanded 180 basis points.
We've seen higher margins for the Consulting segment each quarter this year.
Both segments produced excellent results for the year-to-date as well with solid underlying revenue growth double-digit earnings growth and substantial margin improvement.
We are pleased with this performance.
And with that let me turn it over to Dan to review our third quarter results in more detail.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter Marsh &amp; McLennan delivered strong financial performance.
We achieved increased underlying revenue growth at each operating company which extends this trend of growth into the third consecutive year.
Continued top line growth combined with prudent expense management produced a 12% increase in adjusted operating income.
Risk and Insurance Services revenue rose 2% in the third quarter which is our seasonally lightest quarter.
Underlying revenue growth was 4%.
Adjusted operating income increased 13% to $213 million and the adjusted operating margin improved 130 basis points in the quarter and 150 basis points year-to-date.
While producing these excellent results we continued to make investments to enhance client service and improve operational efficiencies.
Marsh produced another strong quarter.
Underlying revenue rose 4% with all geographies contributing.
Asia Pacific increased 7%; EMEA grew 5%; Latin America rose 5%; and the U.S./Canada division increased 3%.
Marsh continued to generate strong levels of new business of $260 million in the quarter.
Guy Carpenter produced another quarter of underlying revenue growth a trend we have seen each of the last 15 quarters.
On last quarter's earnings call we indicated that Guy Carpenter would likely see only modest revenue growth in the second half of this year since July renewal pricing stabilized for property catastrophe coverage and several key clients increased their risk retention levels.
And we saw this in the third quarter with Guy Carpenter's underlying revenue growth of 1%.
Turning to our Consulting segment underlying revenue increased 3%.
Coupled with expense discipline Consulting's third quarter results demonstrate substantial progress in the execution of our strategy to increase profitability.
Both Mercer and Oliver Wyman contributed to the segment's double-digit growth in earnings and a significantly higher operating margin.
Adjusted operating income rose 15% to $192 million.
The adjusted operating margin increased 180 basis points to 14.3% which is the segment's highest margin in 7 years.
At Oliver Wyman underlying revenue growth in the quarter was 3%.
Financial Services Oliver Wyman's largest sector was the primary driver of this growth.
Geographically Oliver Wyman's revenue increase was driven by the North American region as we have seen throughout the year.
We are expecting a modest decline in underlying revenue for Oliver Wyman in the fourth quarter due to 2 factors.
In Europe Oliver Wyman continues to feel the impact of slower economic growth and declining business confidence and as we discussed previously the timing of revenue from contracts with acceptance criteria improved Oliver Wyman's underlying revenue growth by 3 percentage points in the first quarter and will reduce revenue by the same amount in the fourth quarter.
Mercer’s third quarter underlying revenue grew 3%.
This increase reflected higher revenue across all regions with the strongest growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Looking at Mercer’s underlying revenue by line of business Investments grew 10%; Health &amp; Benefits increased 7%; Outsourcing rose 2%; Talent Rewards &amp; Communications was up 1%; and Retirement was flat.
In conclusion we are very pleased with the company's growth and profitability in the third quarter.
Our leadership team and our colleagues have continued to deliver exceptional performance consistent with our long-term goals to produce adjusted operating income growth of at least 10% adjusted EPS growth approaching 13% and total shareholder return of 16%.
As we have said before while we may not achieve double-digit earnings growth every year we remain confident that we can produce this level of growth over the long term.
Before I turn it over to Mike I'd like to say a few words about Brian.
To say we are a very different company today than we were 5 years ago is an understatement.
Under his leadership we restructured and repaired our Risk and Insurance business successfully navigated the Great Recession settled legacy issues that were impeding our ability to grow and invest streamlined and strengthened our portfolio and dramatically improved our financial results.
Today we are a growing thriving organization built for long-term success.
Our financial performance speaks for itself.
What isn't captured on our income statement is the sense of pride Brian restored to the organization the belief that we truly belong among the world's elite companies.
We owe him a debt of gratitude.
So on behalf of our leadership team our colleagues and our shareholders I thank Brian for his unparalleled leadership.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
I think we all feel the same way about Brian.
Our consolidated revenue was $2.8 billion in the third quarter an increase of 3% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 12% to $358 million and the adjusted operating margin increased 120 basis points to 12.6%.
GAAP earnings per share was $0.44 and $0.43 from continuing operations.
Adjusted earnings per share grew from $0.24 in the third quarter of last year to $0.39 this quarter.
But last year's third quarter results included a cost of $72 million or approximately $0.09 per share related to the early extinguishment of debt.
So we feel the true growth of EPS on an adjusted basis in the third quarter was 18% a very strong performance.
For the 9 months consolidated underlying revenue growth was 5%.
Adjusted operating income rose 13% to $1.4 billion and the adjusted operating margin increased 130 basis points to 15.8%.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.66.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 25%.
But excluding the early extinguishment of debt the growth in adjusted EPS was 17%.
In looking at year-to-date profitability by segment adjusted operating income for Risk and Insurance Services increased 13% to $1 billion with a margin of 20.9% reflecting an increase on a year-over-year basis of 150 basis points.
For our Consulting segment adjusted operating income increased 17% to $528 million with a year-to-date margin of 13.2% or an improvement of 160 basis points.
We recently closed 2 Marsh &amp; McLennan agency acquisitions representing approximately $30 million of revenue.
Over the past 3 years Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency has acquired 24 companies with annualized revenue now totaling over $400 million.
Many of these acquisitions include contingent consideration or earn outs.
These balance sheet liabilities are adjusted quarterly to reflect changes to the company's projections of revenue and earnings.
We believe it is appropriate to exclude these adjustments from our adjusted earnings as shown in our supplemental schedules on Pages 9 and 10.
Interest expense was $44 million in the third quarter compared with $49 million last year and the only debt maturity we have over the next 18 months is the $250 million senior note due in February of 2013.
With respect to investment income for the fourth quarter we anticipate it to be de minimis an improvement from the $4 million loss in the fourth quarter of last year.
Now turning to capital management.
Our cash position at the end of September exceeded $2 billion and in deploying our excess cash in the third quarter we used $127 million for dividends $30 million for acquisitions and $80 million to repurchase 2.3 million shares in the quarter.
In fact over the last 2 years we have repurchased 21 million shares for $627 million leaving $373 million remaining under our current board authorization.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Brian.
Thank you Mike.
Well this is my 20th call since I joined Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies in January 2008 and during that time we've been able to build on our progress each quarter.
Extremely gratifying to think about how far we've come.
I've said many times that joining this organization was a calling and reestablishing the company to its preeminent position is truly one of the highlights of my career.
I am leaving this great company in extremely capable hands.
The Board of Directors and I have every confidence that Dan will continue to capitalize on the strengths of Marsh &amp; McLennan to deliver superior value to its clients shareholders and colleagues.
In closing I'd like to thank our colleagues for choosing to do business with -- our clients for choosing to do business with us our shareholders for their continued confidence and most importantly our colleagues everything we have accomplished over the last 5 years is due to their efforts.
And with that operator let's begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just go into the organic growth side.
It sounds like Oliver Wyman's slowing down into the fourth quarter and really it's a world where the macro seems to be getting a bit slower.
So how do you guys feel about the organic from here? And then very importantly what is your ability or visibility on the margin side as organic comes in perhaps a little slower than what we've enjoyed in previous -- in the previous couple of years.
Okay Greg.
I think Dan may start this but we might hear from the other guys.
Dan? Okay.
So overall I think you're right in saying that the macro factors probably have more of a immediate influence on Oliver Wyman than other operating companies because more of their revenue is project work as opposed to annuitized or productized types of capabilities that reoccur each year.
We separate out the view of organic growth from really where we're going to expand our margin.
We look at our revenue and our expenses as being very much aligned and we look at how we'll do on the revenue side as we think about what kind of inflation we could accept within the expense side.
You can grow your margin really in any environment.
Sometimes it doesn't make sense to grow your margin in certain environments but each of our operating companies are different.
And when we look forward we're quite comfortable that both of our segments will be able to continue to grow their margins over a pretty long stretch of time and both segments have different needs in terms of what revenue growth that they would need in order to comfortably expand their margins.
So why don't -- why doesn't John expand a little bit just specifically on what Oliver Wyman's facing? So I think on last quarter's call we had indicated that we had seen some weakening in business conditions in our pipeline for the second half of the year.
So you saw the pace of our growth dropped in the third quarter and we're now as Dan highlighted in his comments expecting to see some further weakening in fourth quarter next year tied to business conditions principally the weaker business conditions that we're seeing in Europe but even in North America we're seeing some weakening.
So that is affecting us so that is the planning context that we're using for the future as well.
And as Dan highlighted I think that we can continue to build the business and grow our margin even in some weakened business conditions.
Research Division</strong> Is that a commentary just for Oliver Wyman or is that more for the overall Consulting segment? We don't disclose margin specifically for Mercer or Oliver Wyman separately so it is for the overall Consulting segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
But you guys are feeling very confident that the margin trajectory can continue even in a world where the organic were to slow? And we don't know what it's going to do several quarters out but that's a world which you guys can navigate and hit the 10% up income guidance.
Yes.
But I wouldn't make a blanket statement quite that broadly.
I mean because as I was saying before there would be certain market environments where it surely would be poor for the business' midterm and long-term aspects if we drove for margin improvement in that time.
If we're in a world like we are today let's say where all of our operating companies are within 3% or 4% organic growth then we're quite comfortable we would be able to expand margins on that basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last one for me is just Dan you're going to inherit a pristine balance sheet from Brian.
Any thoughts on capital management or change in appetite for buybacks or anything? Yes I think that kind of question's a little premature.
But I would say that in general whether we're talking about the actual business strategies or strategies around capital management you have to bear in mind that our overall leadership group is a closely knit team.
And so the strategies that we've developed it won't be my strategies and it weren't particularly Brian's strategies this was the team of Marsh &amp; McLennan strategies and I would think you'll see some real consistency over long stretches of time.
Next we'll go to Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
Two questions.
Just wondering if you would comment on whether foreign exchange had a larger than normal impact on earnings in the quarter? And then just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the -- that adjustment in the RIS section for the re-measurement of contingent acquisitions and just what went into that? Sure sure sure.
FX all right well Michael that's yours.
Thank you.
As you can see from what we disclosed Larry on the revenue you can see that overall the currency impact on revenue was minus 3% for the quarter.
But your question was specifically addressed I think to how it affected earnings.
And I would say there was a slight headwind for us on an earnings side in the quarter both for Risk and Insurance Services and Consulting fairly similar to what we had seen in the first and second quarter as well.
Okay.
So Mike why don't you elaborate on the RIS adjustment? Yes.
The bulk of the adjustment that we had on contingent considerations was in RIS.
I think there's $1 million in our Consulting segment.
And Larry what this really has to do is really what we would view as purchase price adjustments.
When we do the acquisitions predominantly in Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency but not just for them it could include other acquisitions.
In many cases we would have earn outs and the earn outs are predicated with regard to what the projections over a 2- or 4-year period may be between us and the sellers with regard to revenue and more importantly earnings growth and capabilities.
And so we put that on our balance sheet at the time of the acquisition and we look at those every quarter to see if the adjustments need to be moved up or down.
And we have disclosed that information every quarter.
This is the largest adjustment that we've seen.
And you can see that this quarter we made an adjustment essentially of $26 million the bulk of it in Risk and Insurance Services just to refine those adjustments.
So we view it mainly as a balance sheet item and for that reason we put it in the adjusted schedules and lay it out so that every analyst and investor can see the actual impact in the quarter.
And so is the conclusion that the -- given that this was a positive adjustment is the conclusion the revenue is not coming in -- the revenue and/or profits are not coming in as originally targeted? That would be the conclusion if you were very specific but you have to look at the magnitude of the deals that we've done and put this into context.
So if you look at the considerations that we have and you're basically looking at deals over a 3-year period that ballpark are $800 million and in one particular quarter based upon what the projections maybe going forward over the next 2 or 3 years is in the neighborhood of $25 million you can see that it's fairly de minimis.
And by the way these adjustments do occur every quarter and they move up and down.
Within that that's aggregate of all the deals that we've had and we've actually had some of the deals that have been exceeding our expectations.
So this refinement you'll see every quarter.
We'll present it to you and we're excluding it from our adjusted earnings.
I would say by the way you're right it was a positive in the quarter and so it increased GAAP earnings by $0.04 and we felt that probably wasn't appropriate for an adjusted basis.
And next we're going to go to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question Mike CapEx really popped up in the quarter.
Anything unusual in the CapEx line? Is that kind of the run rate we should expect here going forward? Brian that's a good observation.
We noticed it ourselves.
It actually occurred in the second quarter as well.
It moved up to about $100 million in the second quarter and $100 million roughly in the third quarter.
So we're tracking roughly around $300 million to $350 million of CapEx expenditures.
And I think this speaks to what Dan had articulated in his remarks where we were making investments -- continuing to make investments in our businesses.
And over the last 2 quarters some of that CapEx expenditure was specifically for Mercer.
Some of it was specifically at Marsh and some of it was also at the parent company.
So that would be a fairly decent run rate I would think that you could use Brian going forward even though it may move around quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then next question is it possible to get a sense of what the recent acquisitions over the last 12 months how they kind of impacted earnings in the quarter and then maybe just what the M&amp;A pipeline looks like? I can say from the standpoint of the acquisition the impact in the quarter we do lay that out in our supplemental schedules and you can see it was 1%.
I would also say that that acquisition disposition schedule also uses adjustments or transfers that we would have between our businesses just to make sure that it's consistent within the operating segments and for the operating companies.
So actually the impact on acquisitions for us in this quarter was fairly de minimis.
Research Division</strong> So the impact -- okay great.
And then MMA outlook? The pipeline is actually very strong for really for both segments.
When we look in terms of RIS specifically it's not just the MMA segment the Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency but really we're well positioned as a leader around the world and we are an attractive buyer to many companies.
And so we're -- we have conversations often.
We don't do many deals but we're certainly looking at a lot of things.
And next from Barclays we have Jay Gelb.
Research Division</strong> This question is for Alex.
On the Guy Carpenter organic revenue growth should we -- I know that could be depressed in 4Q as well.
What are your expectations in terms of the potential uplift as a result of Sandy headed into 2013? Okay.
It's early days at the moment.
We've seen a number of estimates ranging from $20 billion for 2012 or to $50 billion as regards the economic or even insured losses.
There's enough global capacity for that to be swallowed so we don't expect to see rates increasing across the globe.
If we look at the Northeast as Brian said there's going to be some more attention you would think to the Northeast more both on the modeling side as well as on the underwriting side.
And we would expect that it could be tough for an underwriter to say that they're going to reduce rates in the Northeast going forward.
So there might be some tailwind there but globally we don't expect to see tailwinds.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay.
And then switching gears to Dan on the Risk and Insurance Services margin.
There continues to be sustained improvement there and I'm just wondering if that will help offset some of the headwinds we're seeing in the Consulting businesses specifically Oliver Wyman.
Well I think in -- if you look at our margin expansion through the year in each of the segments it's pretty consistent.
And we outlined as part of our strategy the notion that we thought our Consulting margins which had really hit a trough right after the Great Recession.
So in 2009 they were down to 10.3% that we were on a path to improve those margins not only to reach our historical performance levels but really to optimize the use of our scale and our global footprint to deliver really good Consulting margins.
And so we've been on that path: 10.3% in '09; 11.4% in 2010; 11.8% in 2011; and 13.2% year-to-date.
And so we don't believe we're getting off of that path even with what we're seeing today with some macro weakness affecting Oliver Wyman.
So if you put it into context as well in terms of size Mercer’s quite a bit larger than Oliver Wyman in terms of its impact on the overall Consulting segment.
So as we look at -- if we're in a world like we look at today which is sort of uncertain but grinding it out we feel that we'll remain on that path of improving margins in both in RIS and our Consulting segment.
This is Mike Bischoff.
Let me just give a little bit more color to the background of your question and then throw it over to John to elaborate.
The environment that we're seeing in Europe Oliver Wyman has faced actually the last 4 quarters where we've really seen declines in revenue with regard to their European Consulting practices.
What offset that was very strong growth in North America and we continue to see that through the third quarter as well.
But I think what John is indicating that that very strong growth is just going down to very good growth and that with the continuation of what we're seeing with regard to Europe really gets us a little bit more of a balance in the fourth quarter and not feeling terrible about going into next year but John? Yes I think the last couple of years we've been in a weak recovery environment in North America and pretty much a 0 growth plus or minus environment in Europe.
So as we're looking into 2013 we expect to see a broad continuation of that environment.
As Mike said our very rapid growth in the U.S.
has tapered a bit in the second half and that's been one of the contributors to the weakening growth overall and we had relatively challenging conditions throughout the year in Europe.
And we don't at this juncture see those as getting worse just more of a continuation of that going into next year but perhaps not offset as much by the strong growth in the U.S.
that we had in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then Mike just a separate one.
On the tax rate was it depressed by anything in 3Q and should we use a 30% effective tax rate going forward? No a very good question.
As we look through the first 3 quarters of the last year the adjusted tax rate was 30%.
As we look through not only this quarter but the year-to-date the adjusted tax rate was 30%.
So it's comparable year-to-year but Jay there always is discrete items in every quarter.
So modeling going forward anywhere in the 30% to 31% range I think is very appropriate for a tax rate.
Next we'll go to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First one the investment income that number obviously jumps around it's very hard to predict.
Can you give us any sense of what you would view as a normalized number for that line item? Michael? Yes Jay very good question.
I would say that roughly 75% of the investments that we have in that line are tied to Trident II and Trident II was created as an investment fund back in 1999.
It really had a 10-year life and so we're kind of wondering why it still is continuing now into 2012.
But if you look at it and because in Trident II which we do not control or manage the main investment that they have is a public company they have to mark it to market on a quarterly basis.
And we pull that on a quarter lag basis into our results which is thus the movement up and down of their portfolio is what causes the movement up and down in our investment income.
To get really to the heart of your question though you're asking how should you look at it.
Our investments in this space are roughly $100 million and you would look in a normalized basis that we should be producing a couple million a quarter out of a real long-term investment strategy.
So we would be happy when the volatility ends and when Trident II is basically closed down.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Mike.
The other one is the adjustments to the acquisition-related accounts the $25 million.
Where is that in the P&amp;L? Where is the adjustment being made? If you look at it from the standpoint -- and by the way if you want more information on that we do put it in our financials footnotes.
I think it's Footnote 11 and when you see the Q every quarter you can track and look at it.
And essentially on that fair value measurement you will see how we go through it and the contingent consideration can include both the consideration that's just deferred and will be paid as well as the balance sheet adjustments that we make.
And because we are doing acquisitions you'll see additions to that typically every quarter and you'll see payments every quarter and then you'll see the adjustments to fair value.
To give you an idea of where that balance is at the end of the third quarter it's $78 million.
So essentially what we've been dealing with is about $100 million with regard to the results.
So it just basically flows through the different segments and the operating income that we have and you would essentially just be reversing the liabilities so it would flow through in that regard through our P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> But it's a bunch of different line items there's no one quick adjustment.
So if I wanted adjust your P&amp;L for this quarter based on the information I have for that number I really couldn't do it.
No Jay you could.
We give out that information every quarter and it is one line and you can see and you can see it by segment.
And if you need some help in it Scott Douglas or I will give it to you.
Next we'll go to Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess I had 2 questions.
One was just can you talk a little bit -- I mean obviously acquisitions are one way of growing your business.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe how headcount is changing in the company this year and maybe how much -- especially maybe more on the client facing side and maybe what your plans are in that regard as you look into next year? And then also I'd just be curious obviously with health care reform and the like we've had questions on this call about exchanges for a while but I guess should we expect to see an announcement from Mercer or the company at large on exchanges anytime soon? And if so are we more likely to see those coming through on the healthcare side or retirement side or both? Well you can expect to hear something from Julio in a minute.
But before that occurs maybe Dan can talk about the headcount.
Sure.
So on an -- first thing about the company on an overall basis the headcount has been pretty consistent over a long stretch of time.
There's been movement in the parts of it as we've gone through early stage restructurings 4 or 5 years ago which sort of reduced the non-client facing parts of the business and pushed more toward the client and the RIS segment in particular.
But if you look over the course of say 2008 at the end of the year we were about 54 000 all in and now we're very close to 54 000 all in.
So over many years we've been pretty consistent on the client side -- on the overall colleague side.
Much of our colleague growth has been via acquisitions.
So as an example within Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency we have about 1 500 people within that.
We added 700 or 800 people with the Alexander Forbes acquisition.
So ultimately the headcount growth has largely been around acquisitions as opposed to any kind of organic growth within the headcount.
Research Division</strong> Is that likely to change anytime soon? Or is that -- we should expect more of the same amount? No I think you'll see more of the same in that the -- if you factor out acquisitions for a second you'll find us becoming more and more efficient in how we run our business but the headcount line staying largely the same because we're taking headcount that we find more efficient ways to run the business and we reallocate that headcount toward the client-facing roles.
Okay.
So Julio exchanges.
Thank you Brian and thank you Matthew for the question.
As you know this is a big topic for the industry and for our business right now.
In fact I just got back from D.C.
where we had a chance to host a panel discussion on health care reform among leading experts and many of them who advise the current administration on health care reform and of course exchanges in particular.
Private exchange is generally considered to be an easy access through a marketplace approach for a better employee choice options and of course cost control.
And we spend a lot of time at our clients educating them on the concept and of course you see some of the growth that we're seeing in our Health &amp; Benefits line because of some of that extra work that's coming our way as a result of the Affordable Care Act.
We have lots of options already that are before our clients that we're actually using to address some of the choice and cost control.
One of them is Mercer Health Advantage and that is actually an opportunity for people to participate and for clients to participate with their employees to take advantage of scale and discounts that we give through Mercer Health Advantage.
And in fact we have about 14 employers that are already participating on this.
We anticipate to sign up somewhere between 400 000 and 500 000 employees and their families through this vehicle that will of course go through 2014 and 2013 as well.
So Mercer -- we also have Mercer Marsh benefits which of course is a great way internationally of facing the market to give additional choice options and cost control and we will be announcing soon a partnership in the Medicare retirement space that will also have us actively involved.
And I'd like to also mention that it is our full intention to have an active exchange in place for 2013 enrollment.
And so as you mentioned earlier stay tuned as things continue to develop.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That advantage product is that -- that's a scale program for multiple employers but is that one carrier supported? No it's actually multi-carrier supported and will continue to be an option for those that are looking purely for the discount side right? There's different types of active exchanges will give different types of affordable options and certainly the marketplace option is being considered for private exchange would be a little bit more expansive than what we offer Mercer Health Advantage but nonetheless very attractive.
Keep in mind that employees are at different stages of trying to figure out what they're actually going to do with private exchanges.
And during this stage they are very receptive to an option like Mercer Health Advantage as demonstrated by 14 employers and 400 000 employee and families who are choosing that option.
Next we'll go to Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
Just a quick question I guess maybe sticking with Julio for a second.
I know -- I think Dan in his prepared remarks mentioned some growth in Latin America and Asia.
Just curious kind of where the growth within Mercer overall where it's coming from right now relative to the U.S.
versus just broadly international.
I know you guys don't disclose that but can you give a sense of the growth trajectory there? Yes let me comment if I may for a second on the third quarter that incorporates some of what you're asking here.
We had a pretty solid performance for Mercer in the quarter and so I'm pretty pleased.
And even though we've had continued softness as many have mentioned in the global economy we continue to manage tightly our expenses and of course invest in things that we think are going to give us good growth.
And one of the overall objectives of course is to continue to become more significant in what we call our growth markets and growth economies because we see them as being able to come out of some of the global challenges a little bit quicker than perhaps some of the mature ones and thus that's an important emphasis for us.
Overall our underlying growth for the quarter was 3% it's consistent with what we've been running in the quarter and last quarter and of course on our year-to-date basis.
So as far as revenue what we disclosed as you know is by our line of businesses.
And our Health &amp; Benefits business as I mentioned earlier is 7% up and Investment's a strong 10% up and those 2 are carrying the day and you can imagine that those 2 are also playing very well in some of the growth economies.
So it's not -- it wouldn't be surprising to see that we are really doing very well in our growth economies and well into the double digits I think is fair to say.
And we continue to want to invest there and see more type of profitable revenue growth from those areas of the world.
Okay.
That's certainly helpful.
And then maybe moving on similar question to Peter if he's there in the room just given I guess the organic growth what we've seen over the past few quarters out of Latin America and Asia it looked like it slowed down a little bit.
I know the comps are getting difficult given the double-digit growth but how should we think about that going forward? Thanks Ray.
Overall for Marsh we had very strong revenue growth with our renewal book as stated in opening comments over $260 million of new business and it was spread out across the world which is very comforting for us as we look at overall Marsh.
One of the things again when we look at this globally is number of offensive RFPs we've been competing on is now over 75%.
So we're winning a lot of business and that's building the organic growth over several quarters.
When we you look at the emerging economies and so you had said about Latin America we have to keep in mind it's one their smallest quarters so any volatility in the renewal line will skew it in terms of its organic growth.
They actually did produce more new business year-over-year and we're comfortable with the year-to-date growth rate around 12% and look at the third quarter as not consistent with how we expect them to perform but overall we're pleased with our growth in Latin America and in Asia.
And if I can squeeze one more in a similar topic for Mike in terms of cash U.S.
versus offshore.
That's a very good question.
We're actually -- well let me say that the second half of the year we have really strong cash generation from our operating companies and you see that reflected in the $2 044 000 000 of cash that we have at the end of the third quarter and that strong cash flow should continue through the fourth quarter.
So what we typically do is start to bring money back that's not permanently invested outside the United States during the third and fourth quarter.
So actually I'm going to defer the answer to your question until we end up in the fourth quarter and really have a definitive number with regard to how much of our cash is international versus in the U.S.
And the reason that we're bringing that cash back into the U.S.
over the third and fourth quarter is that you know that we have the dividend payments to shareholders.
We have another return of capital in the form of share repurchase.
And also we want to look at the MMA acquisition strategy.
So it's really in flux but we started the year with almost all of our cash in international operations.
And next we'll go to Arash Soleimani with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple follow-ups on the exchanges.
So I just wanted to confirm the exchange in 2013 that's going to be an MMC-launched exchange it's not going to be a partnership with a third party is that correct? I'm sorry I could not -- can you repeat the question please? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The exchange that you mentioned in 2013 that's not going to be a partnership that's going to be an actual MMC-launched exchange? The -- okay so there's the Mercer Health Advantage which I already mentioned which was already launched right and we do have more than one carry on that.
And that was the 14 employers and 400 000 individuals as well as family members that'll have access to that for this enrollment period that we speak of right now.
And in addition to that we will also have a Medicare partnership so that will be a partnership Medicare retirement partnership going soon.
And then we will have an active exchange where it'll be our exchange that we will also be announcing in the months to come.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the active exchange I guess what will -- in terms of the economics of that do you expect that to be I guess a more lucrative business model than the traditional health benefits model in terms of switching more to a commission-based model or do you expect it to be pretty similar in terms of the margins? I mean the -- as you -- in the U.S.
which is where particularly this applies about 50% of our business a bit more than that is commission the other is consultancy and quite frankly the margins there are quite handsome and we consider that to be very consistent with what we expect from the exchange option as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly we saw that Aon mentioned that about 44% of their survey I guess clients mentioned that they were interested in potentially joining an exchange over the next 5 years.
Do you find when talking to your clients that that number seems in line with what you're seeing or...
I think it's ever evolving quite frankly.
I mentioned earlier that I was in D.C.
and then we had a significant amount of opportunity to be able to kind of assess that and get a ground view on some of the clients' opinions about that and there are several different points.
I think that anything that works in the area of providing increased choice and controlled costs is of great interest to our clients and it could form many different ways and many different solutions in which one of those are exchanges.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And do you think if the states are able I think it's 2017 to open the exchanges to large employers I guess greater than 100 employees do you think in that situation they could pose a competitive threat or that would not even be an issue whatsoever if they open your doors to those? There's still a significant amount of unknowns as to how that'll all develop.
It's kind of early in the game for us to really predict how that's going to turn out.
So we'll leave it for the strategy that we have already articulated for the moment based on the opportunities that we see in the short and medium term.
And next we'll go to Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just I know we've talked a little bit about Europe and Oliver Wyman.
Just is there a way to look at year-over-year revenue change adjusted for FX in Europe specifically Oliver Wyman and just to try to understand kind of what that looks like on a stand-alone? Well I don't think we give that information out.
So I guess the answer is no simple.
But I think we've given you a pretty good idea of how we feel about Europe from an Oliver Wyman point of view and it's -- I think it is business as usual going forward into next year.
So Dan do you want to say something? Yes I would just want to say that Oliver Wyman is our most fungible business model from a project-colleague engagement standpoint.
So say it a different way slowdowns in Europe can be picked up by opportunities in the United States and we can seamlessly move people to those assignments.
So it's a line of -- it's a global line of business structure so it's much more fungible than our other operating companies.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Are you seeing kind of the pipeline shift geographically to kind of facilitate or drive the resource movement from Europe to other areas? John? Well I think that is exactly what has been happening through 2012.
And as he highlighted earlier we've had very strong growth in North America this year and faced weakened conditions in Europe.
So as Dan highlights we have a global capacity model.
So we're growing overall in Oliver Wyman so we moved its Consulting capacity from Europe to the United States to help enable the growth here and also then improve the residual economics of the European business.
So overall we really look at the business on a global basis and we manage our capacity to the global growth of the business and we can deal with variation in regional growth region by region growth by shifting capacity.
So really Oliver Wyman's economics really follow our global revenue growth more than any bifurcation in the revenue growth by region.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick one on the risk side.
Can you talk a little bit about in the retail side with North America exposures and kind of trend there what are you seeing? I know in the release you mentioned kind of rate on the reinsurance side but if you could talk a little about business conditions in North America specifically on the exposure side and maybe a little comment on the rate as well that'd be great.
Okay Peter? Well on the U.S.
side for Marsh again this is the third quarter we still saw more rate increase probably in several segments.
So the property cat continued to start to trend up a little bit.
You had professional lines directors and officers focused on financial institutions started to move up.
When you look at other segments like casualty you need to break them down into different buckets but for umbrella and lead layer casualty we still saw some pressure on pricing.
When you look at in its entirety more of our clients experience rate increases than decreases in the third quarter when compared to the second quarter.
So it was a modest increase but the trend was slightly up.
In terms of the exposures if you looked at payroll sales total insured values I would say low single digits.
Generally speaking we started to see some more activity and increased payroll and start to see a little bit more in TIV sales was modestly up but it was low single digits.
Okay.
I think we got time for one question if there is one.
Anybody? Actually I show we have no further questions.
Well then that's perfect.
All right well I think I'm just going to say goodbye.
That concludes today's conference and we thank you for participating.
Good day everyone and welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Fourth quarter and full year 2012 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning and they are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I will now turn this call over to the Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results as reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
I'm also very pleased to welcome Keith Walsh our new Head of Investor Relations.
Keith joined us in December following many years of covering the insurance industry as an analyst at Citi.
Following my comments Mike will discuss our financial results in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
I feel truly honored to be leading this call my first as President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
My principal role as CEO of MMC will be to build on our success finding new ways to grow invest innovate and realize the full potential of our businesses.
As many of you know I was previously Group President and COO of MMC for over 1.5 years and CEO of Marsh for more than 3 years prior to that.
During my time as Group President I also briefly acted as the CEO of Mercer before Julio joined the executive team.
It was an invaluable experience for me to have run both Marsh and Mercer.
Along with the rest of the executive team I was actively involved in developing our 4 pillar strategy first articulated in 2010: growth in revenue and earnings per share low capital requirements high cash generation and managing the risk profile of the company.
The best thing about our 4 pillar strategy is that we are executing it well.
We have successfully generated both revenue and profitability growth over the last 3 years.
Further we have maintained low capital requirements and generated strong free cash flow.
This gives us a high degree of flexibility to innovate and expand particularly in growth markets.
It also allows us to return capital to shareholders via a strong dividend and a meaningful share repurchase program.
The broad 4 pillars strategic framework will continue to serve us well.
Our goal remains to produce at least 10% organic growth in operating income over the long term.
Effective capital management including disciplined deployment of excess cash into acquisitions and share repurchase should contribute to EPS growth approaching 13% and with our dividend shareholder returns around 16%.
Moving onto our financials.
I'm pleased with our fourth quarter results which reflected our ongoing strong performance over the course of 2012.
Reflecting on our performance for the year we delivered underlying revenue growth of 4% with growth in each operating company for the third consecutive year.
Underlying expense growth was less than 3% which produced 12% growth in adjusted operating income.
And our overall margin increased 120 basis points to 15.6% an excellent performance.
Risk and Insurance Services produced another outstanding year.
Underlying revenue growth was 5% with both Marsh and Guy Carpenter contributing.
Adjusted operating income rose 12% with margin expansion to 20.5% an increase of 130 basis points.
This is the segment's highest annual margin since 2003.
To put this into perspective over the last 5 years we have more than doubled the Risk and Insurance Services adjusted margin from less than 9% to over 20% despite lower fiduciary income higher pension expense significant investments in the business and a challenging economic and pricing environment.
This speaks to the strength of our core earnings and underlines the operating leverage we have built into the business.
Marsh's underlying revenue rose 5% in 2012 with all geographies contributing.
Latin America was up 13%; Asia Pacific increased 7%; EMEA grew 5%; and the U.S./Canada region increased 3%.
Marsh continued to generate strong levels of new business with $1.1 billion for the year a new annual record.
Guy Carpenter produced 6% underlying revenue growth for the year.
This marks 16 consecutive quarters Carpenter has delivered underlying revenue growth.
Growth was driven by Carpenter's international operations particularly global specialties Asia Pacific EMEA Latin America and global facultative.
The Consulting segment also delivered solid underlying revenue growth in 2012 with both Mercer and Oliver Wyman contributing to the 4% increase.
And we have made substantial progress in the execution of our strategy to increase profitability.
Adjusted operating income increased 14% and the adjusted operating margin expanded 140 basis points to 13.2% Consulting's highest annual margin since 2004.
Mercer had a strong year which represents an excellent start on their path to growing profitability and increasing margins.
Underlying revenue grew 4% reflecting higher revenue across all regions.
And every line of business contributed to this growth: as Investments grew 8%; Health &amp; Benefits increased 7%; Outsourcing rose 4%; and both Talent and Retirement grew 1%.
Since joining Mercer a year ago Julio and his team have undertaken a comprehensive review of Mercer's operations.
Today Mercer has been reoriented around 4 core lines of business: Health Retirement Talent and Investments.
As a result beginning in the first quarter of 2013 Mercer will no longer report Outsourcing as a standalone business.
These services which generated over $700 million in revenue last year will remain an important part of Mercer's capabilities.
One of Mercer's objectives is to build broader client relationships.
More closely aligning administration services with Mercer's core business lines will help achieve this.
We also made the decision to transfer the affinity and voluntary benefits businesses of Marsh's U.S.
Consumer division to Mercer in the first quarter of 2013.
We believe this business which had $225 million of annual revenue and growth consistent with the Marsh U.S./Canada region will be further enhanced as part of Mercer.
It has become clear to us that traditional and voluntary benefits are converging.
So aligning these businesses within Mercer enables us to concentrate our efforts and expertise.
Another important development at Mercer is the recent launch of its U.S.
health exchange known as Mercer Marketplace.
We are excited to add this new offering to an already robust set of products and solutions in Mercer's Health business.
At Oliver Wyman underlying revenue growth for the year was 3% which we believe to be a reasonable result given the macroeconomic environment and weakness in Europe.
This growth was driven by strong increases in the Health &amp; Life Sciences and Communications practices complemented by steady growth in Financial Services Oliver Wyman's largest practice.
In closing we are very pleased with MMC's operational and financial performance.
I believe we are well positioned to deliver on our long-term goals which should lead to superior returns for our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Mike to review our results in more detail.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter consolidated revenue was $300 (sic) [$3] billion an increase of 3% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 10% to $450 million and the consolidated margin increased 90 basis points to 15%.
GAAP EPS was $0.47.
Adjusted EPS grew 13% to $0.52 from $0.46 in last year's fourth quarter.
Revenue at Risk and Insurance Services was $1.6 billion with underlying growth of 3% at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter.
By holding adjusted underlying expense growth to 1% adjusted operating income rose 8% to $312 million.
Margins expanded by 80 basis points reaching 19.2% in the quarter.
At Marsh underlying revenue growth was led by a 5% increase in the International division.
This included 13% growth in Latin America and 3% for both EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Overall Marsh's revenue growth was driven by record new business production of approximately $300 million.
Guy Carpenter continued its long-term trend of solid financial performance and underlying revenue growth.
Its 3% growth was led by Canada U.S.
facultative Latin America the U.K.
and certain global specialties.
Turning to our Consulting segment.
Revenue was $1.4 billion reflecting underlying revenue growth of 3%.
Adjusted operating income rose 8% to $179 million and the margin expanded 70 basis points to 13%.
At Mercer underlying revenue growth was 6% its strongest quarter of the year.
Excellent growth was achieved at Investments Health &amp; Benefits and Outsourcing.
As you are aware Oliver Wyman's 3% decline in underlying revenue in the quarter was anticipated due to the weak European economic environment and the timing of revenue recognition between the first and fourth quarters.
As was the case for the full year we saw strong growth in the Health &amp; Life Sciences and Communications practices.
MMC's consolidated underlying revenue growth for the year was 4%.
Adjusted operating income rose 12% to $1.9 billion and the margin grew 120 basis points to 15.6%.
For the year GAAP EPS was $2.13.
Adjusted EPS increased 21% to $2.15.
Excluding the early extinguishment of debt in 2011 adjusted earnings growth was 16%.
We anticipate annual corporate expense this year will be lower than 2012.
Quarterly expenses should average 75 -- I'm sorry $45 million a quarter.
Investment income in the fourth quarter was $4 million.
Effective yesterday Trident II divested its remaining position in AXIS.
As a result MMC's investment income in the first quarter will approach $20 million.
Regarding our restructuring in the fourth quarter the vast majority relates to Mercer.
As Dan indicated this results from Mercer's repositioning as it implements its new long-term strategy.
1/3 of the $51 million expense was due to the sale of a small Canadian outsourcing business which was announced last October.
The balance of the expense included position elimination software writeoffs and real estate rationalization.
We have greatly reduced noteworthy items that are excluded from adjusted operating income.
On an expense base of over $10 billion net adjustments to GAAP for the past 2 years were only $22 million in 2011 and $35 million in 2012.
Taxes.
For the year our adjusted tax rate was 30% and we feel this is a reasonable rate to use for financial modeling purposes in 2013.
Pension expense.
On December 31 interest rates for longer debt maturities used to measure pension liabilities were again lower than the prior year.
Based on the year-end measurement our pension expense will increase this year by $30 million.
Moving to capital management.
The largest use of our cash in the fourth quarter was $149 million for acquisitions including 5 at Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency.
Today MMA has annualized revenue of $450 million.
Also in the quarter we used $128 million for dividends and repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock for $50 million.
Since instituting our share repurchase program 2 years ago we have repurchased 22 million shares for almost $700 million.
For the year the major uses of cash included approximately $500 million for dividends $340 million for acquisitions $230 million for share repurchase and $200 million for discretionary pension contributions.
The use of cash over the course of 2012 approaches $1.3 billion.
Additionally last month we made a $70 million discretionary contribution to one of our international pension plans.
We are prepared to make additional contributions if there is a long-term economic rationale and it can be accomplished in a tax-efficient manner.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thank you Mike.
And operator we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask why is the organic growth in the P&amp;C brokerage segment?  It was one of the lowest in many quarters and also is now well below peers that have already reported.
Okay.
So I think the best thing to do is to go to Peter and Alex on that.
So I'll start with Peter.
Sure.
Greg when you look at the variability that happens quarter-to-quarter I would encourage us to focus on what happens in the year as well as looking year-over-year.
So when I look at U.S.
and Canada in 2011 the segment grew at 3% and in 2012 it grew at 3%.
When I look at the International growth in 2011 it was 6% and in 2012 it was 6%.
So it's challenging to take just a look at the quarter.
It's much better to look at what is the last 4 quarters and I think you can see we've had very consistent growth.
International has contributed more than the U.S.
and Canada.
We've had terrific performance from Latin America where they grew 13% during the year.
EMEA with all of its challenges and economic headwinds grew 5% for the year.
Asia Pac grew 7% for the year.
So overall with the challenging headwinds we're pleased with what's happened during the year.
If I can just comment for a second on what happened in the U.S.
and Canada because I'm sure some curiosity as to why it's 0%.
Again we look at 2012 and are pleased with the performance.
There's always variability and nonrecurring items in quarters.
We've mentioned that before both positive and negative.
And having said that in the fourth quarter U.S.
and Canada did get hit with an abnormal amount of negative variability that impacted the growth in that segment.
So again I would encourage us to take a look at the year the key performance indicators for new business.
As Dan mentioned we had record new business in the year.
But we also had record new business in the quarter including in the U.S.
Retention absent the variability was consistent with prior quarters and our overall pipeline is quite strong.
So when you take a look at the quarter and the year I'd encourage you to take a look more at the year.
And as we look to 2013 we don't give guidance but the year will reflect more of the growth than the quarter.
Okay.
Alex? Yes.
I mean 3% underlying growth actually I think it was a fairly decent quarter.
There was no doubt that last year it was a more benign year from the point of view of catastrophes.
And so there were some pressures on rates.
But all in all we actually did a little bit better than we expected to be in what is our smallest quarter.
So I really don't have much to add to that.
Okay.
Also just one comment Greg.
I think you have to be cautious when looking at peers or your comment with regard to underperformance versus peers.
We don't have many peers.
And so there may be some reporting which would be more equivalent to a smaller segment within our business.
But our RIS business is a $6.5 billion annual business and we're in every geography in every segment.
And so there may be -- we don't have many peers out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess to just -- very thorough answer.
What I'm sort of taking away from it is that empirically you guys limped into year end in the P&amp;C brokerage segment.
So that's just the way it is and it was actually centered in the U.S./Canada segment as you said which flies totally in the face of what we're seeing from the peers.
But you feel very very good given where pricing is going in the U.S given the trends you see that this quarter is not a quarter to be extrapolated into 2013 and beyond.
There's nothing in the core business that you see that you want to call out right now that we should be -- that should cause us frankly to all be lowering our organics in that segment going forward.
Yes I think your summary is correct.
Our next question will come from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The outlook for margin expansion seems to be a bit stronger in Consulting than the Risk and Insurance Services segment.
And that certainly was the case for the full year 2012.
I was wondering if you could talk about that in relation to your long-term 13% EPS growth target as well.
Sure.
Look well first let me just hand over to Mike.
Yes this is Mike.
Just to correct I would say the margin improvement in Risk and Insurance Services was 130 basis points in 2012 and for Consulting 140.
So I would say that we saw a very significant margin improvement in both of our segments over the course of the year.
I just wanted to make sure that that was factually correct right there.
Yes.
And Jay when we look at the businesses of course RIS started earlier right in terms of really focusing on the business disciplines and profit improvement.
And we really started getting going in Consulting with the arrival of Julio and Julio's leadership team at Mercer and forming strategies around improving profitability.
And so when we look at both segments where we stand today I'm actually quite optimistic that we have the ability over the next few years to continue to expand margins in each of our segments.
And I wouldn't really put an emphasis on larger margin expansion in Consulting versus RIS.
I think that there's capabilities in both to do that.
Of course it remains -- it's subject to the overall environment the GDP environment around the world the macroeconomic environment a little bit of the PC -- P&amp;C pricing cycle.
But ultimately as long as we can achieve modest levels of revenue growth we feel comfortable that we will be able to continue to expand our margins in both segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with regard to the organic expense growth Mike I think you talked about 3% underlying.
And is that something that can persist? Yes.
I mean certainly Jay when we look at how we run the business we have been continually investing in the business over the last several years and very much focused on creating mid- and long-term value for our shareholders.
And so when we look at the expense base we've been wearing those investments we've been wearing some higher pension costs et cetera.
And we believe we can continue to do that.
Next we'll hear from Meyer Shields with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan you talked a little bit about changing the segment reporting within Mercer.
When you talk about including the affinity stuff from Marsh is that going to have a material margin impact? No it will not.
I mean the margins of that business are relatively consistent with the overall margins of the Consulting segment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I infer from that that it'll boost margins in Risk and Insurance a little bit? If you want to cut a fine line to it yes the math works that way.
But it would be so small relative to the size of RIS that it would barely turn up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you look at both segments I'm talking about the 2013 outlook are you budgeting for or expecting any slowdown in consumer spending because of higher payroll taxes? When we look at our business from a budgeting perspective we tend to look at where the business has been performing over the course of like a rolling 4 quarters basis and what the macro environment looks like on a rolling 4 quarters.
So we don't put any real optimism into our numbers based upon the fact that we feel that at least the sentiment seems to be improving a bit from where it was midyear last year.
And on the other hand we don't put many pessimistic thoughts in there too as to the impacts of something like a payroll tax.
So ultimately our business should perform a little bit above GDP in most jurisdictions.
And so that's probably on a broad sense the more accurate thing to look at.
Next we'll hear from Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
I'm wondering if you could just talk about the underlying insurance pricing impact that you felt in 2012 for the year.
And I know it's incredibly early in 2013 but perhaps look into the crystal ball and see how the impact in '13 might compare with '12.
Okay.
So I think that question as well Larry is probably best for Peter and for Alex.
So Peter why don't we start with Marsh? Sure.
Thanks Larry.
And let me start with the fourth quarter.
We measure what's called a Marsh Risk Management Global Insurance Index and that rose 1.2% on a global basis.
If you think about how our portfolio splits in the quarter it's about 49% U.S.
51% International.
If I look back on the first second quarter in the U.S.
we started to see a lot more probably modest increases in property started to see more momentum in some of the more stressed casualty lines.
And I would say that's continued in the third and fourth quarter although modest increase when you compare quarter-to-quarter.
The International business again a lot harder to just give a statement because they're in different geographies there's different lines of business but generally speaking that's been fairly flat.
Some lines of business have increased.
I would think more around peak zone properties so if you go into Asia if you go into Pacific parts of Latin America and then other segments' lines of business have been coming off.
So on average I would think for the year that the International has been flat.
And again with the U.S.
we've had a little bit of an impact on Sandy not much.
And that started to fall off a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Alex? Yes.
On the reinsurance side really as I said before the year was benign from the point of view of catastrophes compared certainly to a year prior.
And we saw some general softening.
Sandy probably strengthened the resolve of some underwriters to try and keep some pricing.
And if you had a portfolio that was affected by Sandy I believe there were some price increases.
But we didn't see any tailwind from rating so far in the renewals for 2013.
Great.
And then just one housecleaning.
Mike with Trident's sale of AXIS is that going to effectively eliminate investment income post the first quarter? Larry that's a very good question.
We do have investments in a number of other private equity firms.
But the issue really that has caused running through our P&amp;L is the accounting treatment for private equity firms when they hold a public company.
And essentially that was AXIS that Trident II held.
And so when they marked it to market for each quarter we would have to realize that through our P&amp;L in the subsequent quarter.
And so with Trident II essentially being closed down it essentially then means that we would really not have after the first quarter much running through our investment income line.
Moving on we'll hear from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to expand if I could a little on the kind of pricing and market conditions commentary.
Where are you seeing the impact of firming market conditions in the U.S.
impacting your results whether on a revenue or margin basis? And then just one follow-up.
Okay.
Peter? The pricing if you translate it to our results again we saw some changes in the market based on Sandy in the fourth quarter.
And I really put them into 3 categories.
One is pricing.
So if you had Northeast exposure loss-affected or flood-exposed you started to see pricing.
There has been as much focus on coverage.
I mean we saw a lot about storm surges.
Is it in the wind or is it in flood?  Deductibles increasing.
And then looking at capacity and how that's going to be impacted in the future.
The U.S.
our business has been moving more to commission but we still have a split of a fee and commission and then we also have a business that's well populated with high deductibles or SIRs which will be less affected than a guaranteed cost and what you perhaps are seeing in the market for what's happening with pricing.
So overall I think the pricing had a modest impact and in line with what we said for the global index which was in the 1% to 2% range.
Research Division</strong> So does the fact that you're securing better rate for your customers than the market overall how -- does that manifest in retention? Does that -- like other than just pure margin how do you see firming market conditions in the U.S.
impacting your business overall? The firming conditions I think will have a couple of impacts.
One would be as you mentioned on the retention.
So we will tend to retain more clients based on the service capabilities our ability to execute on claims.
And I also believe that there's a flight to quality when there's a challenge in placing business.
And we have tremendous expertise in our infrastructure for line of business for industries' segments.
And we're well represented across the U.S.
in terms of how we trade with markets.
And so our clients tend to want to stay and we have prospects that tend to want to come.
So I would expect to see that new business trend to be strong retentions to be strong and for us to be able to grow as a result of it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just Dan if I could just on deployment.
About $1.3 billion-ish to spend if our math is right maybe half of that dividends and pension.
First question is is that still the right way to think about that? And second is how do you think about the other half? I mean are you biased towards building out MMA the agency platform? Or do you see more value on the buyback side? Yes okay.
So I do think that our dividend is pretty sacrosanct over the last 50 years and that's going to be a call on our free cash each year.
Pension as Mike was saying in his script will vary in terms of discretionary contributions to pension based upon the economic rationale and the tax efficiency of doing those sorts of things.
And that may vary over time.
In terms of the balance between acquisitions and share repurchase I would say we are always focused on creating value for shareholders.
And so therefore we are looking at in making acquisitions what adds to the strength of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies what creates additional value that we would be able to then achieve over the mid- and long-term.
And our own thought process is that as long as we acquire well we should be able to build more value through acquisitions than any other means.
Having said that acquisitions even when you have a reasonable pipeline you can't predict year-by-year of how much you're going to spend with acquisitions.
And so therefore share repurchase remains a very viable and appropriate way for us to utilize excess cash.
Buying back around $700 million over the last 2 years has been pretty consistent and a significant sum.
We have a share repurchase authorization up to $1 billion.
Clearly authorizations are board decisions but we would expect that our board would consider that sort of thing in the future.
And certainly we think that share repurchase would be a good use of excess cash when we don't have acquisitions to make.
Research Division</strong> So acquisitions first then buybacks? Correct.
I wouldn't say acquisitions.
I would say good acquisitions accretive acquisitions.
Next we'll hear from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first in Mercer with the change in the presentation where you're I guess getting rid of Outsourcing I assume that will just be merged into the other businesses.
Julio? Yes.
Thank you Jay.
Yes I want to make it clear that I certainly wouldn't qualify our change as getting rid of Outsourcing.
We are very much committed to keeping our Outsourcing business alive and well and a viable option for our clients.
We know that there are administrative supports that are necessary in order for us to be able to drive the high-margin business and value proposition to our clients for core offerings like Retirement core offerings like H&amp;B or Health &amp; Benefits and of course Investments.
And so with that we will have the Outsourcing that supports those businesses be part of the P&amp;L in those businesses and also part of the overall strategy to expand and broaden our client relationships.
So Outsourcing will exist inside the lines of businesses that it supports.
Research Division</strong> And when I said get rid of it I just meant from a financial reporting standpoint.
But thanks for that for mentioning that.
And Julio while you're on the phone there can you talk about the exchange that you launched and what your outlook is? And when do you think it could actually help from an earnings standpoint? Thanks again Jay.
As many are aware just a few weeks ago we announced the launch of Mercer Marketplace which is our active exchange for the U.S.
market.
And we're really excited about the new offering.
Mercer Marketplace is a private active benefit exchange designed to help employers and their employees more effectively manage their benefit costs while providing employees and their dependents with superior choice flexibility and service.
So the employees of our clients will have access to a broad array of traditional as well as voluntary benefits from multiple insurance providers.
And along with education tools which is very important to support and help employees customize their choices and to better fit their needs and make informed decisions.
Our exchange can be scaled for employees with -- or employers with very few employees as well as the largest of employers with thousands of employees.
It goes live for enrollment for the 2014 enrollment period which means we'll be up and going by the end of the year during the enrollment time.
So we're in discussions with several of our clients as you can imagine there's been varying degrees of interest as we move forward.
I really want to focus on the fact that the whole exchange arena continues to be a developing type of market for us and various others.
And I think what's important now is to ensure that we have some sort of distinction in the way we are offering our exchange versus others.
So Mercer's Marketplace as I said is going to be very scalable.
It will offer a complete set of solutions and products across a full scale ranging from medical life disability et cetera et cetera.
The platform accommodates both insured and self-insured plans.
I want to make that clear it accommodates both insured and self-insured plans.
And we'll offer a lot of plan designs and support a broad defined contribution strategy for our health and welfare benefit.
So as you can see it's going to be quite a launch for us as we move forward with it.
There will be some really good competitive advantage and we'll continue to actually calibrate our investments for the Mercer Marketplace as we validate proof of concepts and testing that we'll be doing along the way to ensure that it really appeals to our target audience.
Next we'll hear from Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
Maybe just wanted to touch a little bit more on sort of the restructuring in the quarter and the reorientation within Mercer.
And I know kind of one of the beneficial points in the past is your ability to absorb some of the restructuring costs.
I'm just curious -- and I know Mike you gave some numbers around the adjustments to operating income.
But restructuring costs are up year-over-year.
So I'm just curious are you guys planning to change sort of your ability to absorb restructuring costs? Kind of how should we think about potential restructuring? Or is sort of the operating platform such a way that you guys would like at this point? Okay Ray.
So it's Dan here.
There's no change in our philosophy with regard to restructuring and there is no thought in our minds that our ability to absorb normal course types of changes to the business and structures is any different than it has been over the last couple of years.
So I would look at this more along the lines of Julio and his team doing a kind of drains up review comprehensive review of their business.
And usually a new CEO gets about one crack at that.
So well done Julio and we move on from here.
That's helpful.
And just I guess following up on cash on the balance sheet.
Just curious do you know how much cash you guys hold onshore versus offshore at year end and maybe talk about how to get that cash offshore back into the U.S.
Okay.
Mike do you want to take that? Sure Dan I'd be happy to.
Well actually we were very effective in bringing our cash onshore.
At the end of the year we have $933 million of cash in the U.S.
out of the $2.3 billion.
Okay that's helpful.
And then last quick if I can squeeze it in.
In terms of debt you guys have a maturity coming I guess this month.
How should we think about debt given your debt to capital is around 30% and debt to EBITDA is around 1.3x? Mike? Thank you Dan.
You're absolutely right.
We have a $250 million debt maturity this month.
Let me first say that we have no plans to actively delever our balance sheet beyond where we are today.
We think with the growth in the earnings that we'll see -- not just the last few years but we'll see in the coming years we'll effectively continue to delever the balance sheet and improve our credit metrics which are important to us.
That said and the fact that we were very successful in bringing back quite a bit of cash into the U.S.
for a variety of uses the timing of when we essentially will fund that debt maturity over the course of the year I think is still open.
So we'll be very attentive to when we go back into the debt markets.
So it will be done this year but the timing of it is yet to be determined.
Moving on we'll hear from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Coming back to a little bit on Greg's question earlier in the call.
Can you subdivide a little bit the growth rates for middle markets upper middle markets and large case business so we can like sort of try and then pace out what 2013 is going to look like? Yes.
No we're not going to segment our business on growth rates because we feel if we did that we would then do it every quarter and it would create a lot of management time to create the information and vet it properly for external reporting.
Let me just say this.
The small commercial business in the Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency is probably the area that is most appropriately matched against the peer group that some of you have been thinking about.
And in our view the core brokerage business within Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency is performing at our expectations and is consistent overall with what we would expect looking at their peer group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And which is a smaller peer group obviously.
Yes that would be a smaller peer group.
Research Division</strong> And so in thinking about in terms of the opportunity going forward when you were looking at the pricing I mean we've seen that there's obviously the tailwind coming from the middle market segment.
What do you think is the -- this time next year what will we be seeing for the large case business in terms of sort of the tailwind? Do you think it will catch up to the smaller middle market business in terms of pricing? There's a couple of ways to approach that question Joshua.
I think on an overall sense in Peter's commentary or answer to the previous -- one of the previous questions he was saying you should really look at the year of both top line for Marsh overall but also specifically with regard to the U.S./Canada division.
I think one interesting point which might be a little bit different which I'll ask Peter to expand on is that Marsh has made significant progress over the last few years converting some of their book and growing the commissionable book in some of their offerings.
So Peter you want to expand on that? Sure.
We have new business each year that represents around 15% to 20% of our revenue and we have been very conscientious of trying to convert the new business to as much commission versus fee.
And I think in the past we had said that we are around 50-50 fee versus commission.
And now when you look at the -- in fourth quarter the portfolio in its entirety it's now around 40% fee 60% commission.
And that is a positive because again one it is more transparent with clients although certainly fees are transparent.
Is that it's more aligned with the market in terms of when you'd perhaps see some pricing increases you may perhaps see less depending on what geography what line of business what segment and what's happening at that point in time in those specific areas.
Research Division</strong> Does that make any changes in employee retention if you're higher commission rates? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> If more of the business is coming from commission rather than fees does that change employee retention characteristics at all? When we look at revenue retention any lift whether it's fee lift or commission lift would benefit revenue retention.
So clearly it doesn't do anything with account retention.
But with regard to revenue retention it would.
But we try to get higher fees as well when we talk year-over-year with our clients.
So really any lift in fees or commissions help revenue retention.
Next we'll hear from Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> In Consulting it looked like both H&amp;B and also Outsourcing were pretty strong for the quarter.
I guess 2 questions.
One was there any project revenue that helped either of those segments? And would you say the outlook going into 2013 for both those areas is continuing strong or even getting better as we go into 2013? Julio? So thanks for the question.
Let me start off first by saying that we were pretty pleased with the overall results that we had at Mercer on the revenue side for the entire year and the fourth quarter as well.
You can see in the H&amp;B line that actually has been picking up quarter-by-quarter with this fourth quarter now being our strongest.
We continue to see a lot of benefit and a lot of consultancy work coming out of all the clarification that happened around the Affordable Care Act.
There is significant amount of activity with both state consultancy that we're doing as well as client consultancy that we're doing.
And we continue to also see a lot of interest in understanding how to be able to control costs and bring extra choice to employees and thus a lot of interest in discussing and evaluating different options and approaches going forward.
I think that it's fair to say that the H&amp;B business is going to continue to see that type of demand of our services and I think we're well positioned for that.
And I would ask you to think about that more along the lines of what the annual growth rate was for H&amp;B which was somewhere around 7% as opposed to the fourth quarter growth rate.
I think it's more indicative to look at full year.
And as far as Outsourcing is concerned that was benefited by some let's say project work out-of-scope project work.
It continues to benefit from that.
Outsourcing could be a little lumpy as the year goes on because of that very nature of project work that we can -- that we get.
We saw that in the fourth quarter.
It will continue to be kind of lumpy.
And again I would point you to the annual growth rate for Outsourcing of somewhere around 4%.
Research Division</strong> And  one follow-up on the health care exchange.
Do you have or at what point will you have a I guess full suite or adequate suite of health insurers as part of that exchange? And also how long do you think it will take you to be up to speed to handle a large national client? Yes we'll be -- well let me take the first part of the question first.
As you can imagine we're in active discussions right now with carriers.
There is a lot of interest coming from them and I'm sure that soon enough we'll have an opportunity to discuss more specifically how many we'll have on as we go into the 2014 enrollment period that of course will take place later on in 2013.
As far as going forward and where do we see it developing I think as I mentioned earlier there's a lot of moving parts in this not just for ourselves but for our competitors.
I think those who are going to win in this space are ones that can really understand the distinction and differentiation that'll be necessary in order to be able to have the appeal that is needed in the marketplace and in the targets that we're going to be focusing on.
So stay tuned I guess is the best way to say how we're going to move forward.
And there'll be development and we'll continue to keep you abreast of them as they continue to develop throughout the year.
If I might just add to that for a second.
I mean one of the reasons and there were many reasons of moving the U.S.
Consumer business to Mercer is Julio's in particular expertise and leadership roles that he has had in his career in consumer businesses.
And Julio do you want to just expand a little bit on the call center operations that we're moving over? Yes.
There was a question earlier that talked -- that had asked a little bit about some of the reasoning perhaps for bringing the Consumer business of Marsh over.
And I think there's a lot of pretty obvious ones.
One is that you see the converging of the core medical health benefits and voluntary benefits happening more and more.
There's a blurring of the lines between those 2 offers.
We have a very expansive way to be able to handle that on the Mercer side and it just makes sense to put it together for the U.S.
in that fashion.
Also as importantly is that as we build an appropriate offering for our exchanges is an important element as Dan mentioned of the Consumer business that actually incorporates licensed agency call centers that allows us to obviously fulfill then more adequately the type of demands that we're going to see through the exchange.
And then since Dan mentioned it I guess I'll mention it as well and that is that I have had extensive consumer market experience internationally and in the U.S.
over my previous lives prior to joining Mercer and certainly look forward to be able to bring more value out of that business for our organization as we go forward into the future.
So there's a lot of really good reasons for doing this.
And I think it does give us some sort of strength and differentiation in the way we'll be going through exchanges as well as other aspects I mentioned on the voluntary and core Health &amp; Benefits.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up.
As you further develop the exchanges will expenses -- will you need to ramp-up expenses in the near term to do that? Julio? Thank you Dan.
We are carefully assessing the investments that are necessary and the returns that we should get from that investment or those investments on a short- medium- and long-term basis.
We're very disciplined about that.
We'll continue to calibrate that appropriately.
Don't want to overinvest early don't want to underinvest.
So I think it's really one of those things that we'll continue to look at.
We'll continue to make sure it's properly aligned.
But the focus is and continues to be margin expansion at Mercer okay? We've had it in this year we expect that we are going to continue down that path going forward.
And we believe that exchanges will be a part of being able to contribute to that margin expansion as time goes on.
We will go to Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> A little bit of a follow-up here.
Where exactly is housed this sort of critical smallish business -- basically the 50 under lives and other type businesses at Marsh? I'm guessing it's pretty small.
I know that Marsh Agency writes at least some of it but geographically where should we be looking for it when we get to that point where we need to see how things change? If I can understand your question properly I'll just rephrase it and let me know if I've got it right.
You're looking to where we have essentially H&amp;B business in the 50 lives or under category.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Because I think that's the business that is most likely to be changed one way or the other at the end of the year.
And you're right.
We would have some of that business in Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency and some of that business in Mercer.
But even if you put them together it would not move the needle for us in either H&amp;B or our overall revenue for Marsh or Mercer.
We just don't have a lot of that business.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Is that business -- in your view I know it's small.
But maybe you'll have an opinion because I think it's a bit -- a much bigger issue for others that you'd like to voice.
Is that business going to increasingly a self-insurance model? Or do you think it will just all go to the exchanges? Yes.
I think ultimately because we're not large in that space we read all the same commentary that you do.
I think you can be comfortable that we're not going to -- we don't have strategy to drive into that space.
Our last question today will come from Thomas Mitchell with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the risk side of things the insurance brokerage business I sort of tried to work with what I think of as a classic model of exposures growth in exposures times growth in rate times underlying inflation and the values of things that are being insured times whatever your average fee or commission is.
Now when I think along those lines and I'm sure you follow this you must think about it better than I do the question that I come up with if we look at just from your perspective the difference between U.S.
and International with respect to the general trends in those 4 factors is there something that emerges clearly? Because there is a clear contrast between your 3% annual growth rate in the U.S.
and what underwriters were saying about the opportunities to write business that was available to them in the fourth quarter.
And I'm wondering if you could spell it out a little more clearly.
I think for the last number of years we have grown faster internationally than we have grown in the U.S./Canada division.
And the underlying factor that drives that is there is more growth in the world than there has been in the developed U.S./Canada division.
And so we have been grinding it out in U.S./Canada and in other -- some other parts of the developed world with good organic growth strategies.
And we're pleased to be growing most often above GDP even in the developed world.
But we're -- in the RIS side we're in 90 different countries.
And so when there's more growth in the world we're there to catch it.
Now some of that growth frankly comes from the developed world into the developing world and so our client relationships in U.S./Canada and in Europe to name 2 parts of the developed world we capture in places like Latin America Asia and Africa.
But I wouldn't read too much more into it.
There's more GDP growth outside U.S./Canada than there is inside.
And that's the main factor that you see a differential growth rate.
Thank you.
And thank you operator.
Before ending this call I'd like to just reiterate how honored I am to lead Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
I will keep a keen focus on 3 core constituencies: colleagues clients and shareholders.
This call is naturally oriented toward meeting our commitment to shareholders.
I also want to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for our 54 000 colleagues for their hard work and professionalism and to our tens of thousands of clients for their belief in Marsh &amp; McLennan.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you all for joining.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
First quarter 2013 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our first quarter results as reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh Head of Investor Relations.
Following my comments Mike will discuss our financial results in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
We had an excellent first quarter which represents another step forward in our journey to be among the elite companies of the world.
We are successfully executing the 4 pillar strategy that has served us well.
It calls for us to produce long-term growth in revenue and earnings maintain low capital requirements generate high levels of cash and manage the risk profile of the company.
We remain committed to building on this foundation as we pursue new ways to grow invest and realize the full potential of our businesses.
Marsh &amp; McLennan's strong first quarter results demonstrate that we are performing well.
In the first quarter growth in underlying revenue exceeded growth in underlying operating expenses as it has for 19 of the past 20 quarters.
In the quarter this operating leverage produced 16% growth in adjusted operating income and our consolidated margin increased 230 basis points to 19.7%.
Importantly both operating segments delivered mid-teens growth in adjusted operating income as well as substantial margin improvement.
Adjusted underlying expense growth was flat in the first quarter.
However as we progress through the year we expect to see modest expense growth thus tempering margin expansion for the remainder of the year.
Risk and Insurance Services produced another outstanding quarter.
Underlying revenue growth at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter was 4%.
Adjusted operating income for this segment rose 14% with margins expanding to 26.6% an increase of 210 basis points.
This is the segment's highest quarterly margin since 2004 an impressive performance when you consider the headwinds we are facing such as lower fiduciary income higher pension expense and a challenging economic environment in most developed countries.
At Marsh revenue was $1.4 billion with all major geographies contributing to Marsh's 4% underlying revenue growth.
We are pleased with this performance since it comes on the heels of a very strong growth in last year's first quarter.
The International division grew 5% with Latin America up 13% Asia-Pacific increasing 6% and EMEA growing 3%.
The U.S./Canada division increased 2% a solid performance given the strong growth of 6% last year.
Marsh continued to generate high levels of new business with $256 million this quarter.
Guy Carpenter continued to produce impressive results with revenue of $375 million in the first quarter or growth of 4% on an underlying basis.
We are especially pleased with this performance considering the 7% growth in last year's first quarter higher risk retentions by clients and softening pricing conditions.
Guy Carpenter's revenue growth reflects both higher revenue retention as well as strong new business development.
Consistent with Carpenter's goal of broadening its geographic footprint double-digit revenue growth was achieved in Continental Europe and Latin America with solid gains in Global Specialties.
This excellent performance now extends the trend of Guy Carpenter's quarterly underlying revenue growth into the fifth consecutive year.
In our Consulting segment we continue to focus on higher levels of profitability.
In the first quarter revenue was $1.4 billion flat on an underlying basis as growth at Mercer was offset by revenue declines at Oliver Wyman.
Importantly the Consulting segment produced significant earnings growth of 15% to $189 million as adjusted underlying expenses decreased 2%.
As a result the segment's margin expanded 190 basis points to 13.9% driven primarily by Mercer.
At Oliver Wyman underlying revenue in the first quarter decreased 9% as declines in North America and Europe more than offset expansion in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
In this difficult macroeconomic environment John and his management team have taken steps to protect Oliver Wyman's profitability.
Mercer's revenue was $1 billion an increase of 3% on both a reported and underlying basis.
On a geographic basis Mercer grew revenue across each of its major regions.
Among its lines of business strong revenue growth was achieved by Health and Investments.
These excellent results in the first quarter reflect the series of actions taken by Mercer's management to reposition the business to grow earnings.
In closing we are very pleased with our overall performance in the first quarter.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the first quarter revenue was $3.1 billion an increase of 2% on both the reported and underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 16% to $615 million our highest level of quarterly profitability in almost a decade.
And the consolidated margin increased 230 basis points to 19.7% again our highest level since 2004.
GAAP EPS rose 17% to $0.74 and adjusted EPS grew 16% to $0.73.
As we discussed last quarter to assist in building broader client relationships Mercer has aligned its Benefit Administration services formerly described as Outsourcing within its principle business lines thus positioning Mercer's capabilities around Health Retirement Talent and Investments.
Also in the first quarter a significant portion of Marsh's U.S.
Consumer business was transferred to Mercer.
Last year this business had $231 million of revenue operating income of $40 million and close to 1 000 colleagues.
Realigning these 2 businesses within Mercer enables us to concentrate our efforts and expertise in a rapidly shifting landscape including the convergence between traditional benefits and voluntary benefits.
Mercer also used the consumer call center operation to support Mercer Marketplace its healthcare exchange.
The supplemental schedules in our press release provide quarterly revenue operating income and margins for the past 3 years reflecting the Consumer and Outsourcing reclassifications.
MMC is delivering excellent operating and financial results while continuing to invest for the future.
As an indication of this our capital expenditures have grown substantially in recent years from approximately $270 million in 2010 to $320 million last year.
And CapEx is expected to be approximately $350 million this year including over $120 million in the first quarter.
We're constantly investing in each of our businesses.
Throughout the company we have been creating new products and tools to enhance client service replacing legacy systems with next-generation technology improving efficiencies and developing new operating platforms that increase our global capabilities.
Investment also includes recruiting and retaining the best talent in our industries.
We believe the investments we are making will continue to create significant shareholder value.
Investment income in the first quarter was $21 million due to the winding up of Trident II which accounted for the vast majority of our investments in private equity.
We expect only minimal income from our Investment portfolio over the remainder of this year.
However while we no longer have an investment in Trident III we have retained performance fees related to the creation of this fund in 2003.
Recognition of these deferred fees will only occur as investments are harvested and the performance fees are no longer subject to callback.
Timing of this is unknown and is not controlled by MMC.
Interest expense decreased to $44 million in the first quarter due to a reduction in debt.
And our next debt maturity of $320 million is in July of next year.
Corporate expense declined to $45 million in the first quarter on an adjusted basis.
Although there is variability quarter-to-quarter we believe this is a reasonable quarterly run rate.
Cash utilization.
As you know our cash utilization is typically greatest in the first quarter primarily due to the payment of incentive compensation awards.
Additional uses of cash in the quarter included: $320 million for discretionary pension contributions; $250 million for maturing debt; $125 million for dividends; and $100 million to repurchase 2.7 million shares of our common stock.
In fact this represents the first time since 2004 that we've repurchased stock in the first quarter.
And since instituting the current share repurchase program in late 2010 we have repurchased 25 million shares.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thank you Mike.
And operator we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask about the operating margins which were excellent in the quarter relative to what we were thinking.
And I think in your commentary you mentioned that we won't see the same level of increase for the rest of the year.
So can you first maybe just talk a bit about how you did so well? And then number two can you maybe clarify a bit on how we should think about that for the rest of the year? Sure.
Well as we've shown over the past 5 years we've pretty much aligned expenses and revenues.
So when we saw and spoke with you in sort of the back half of last year or going into the back half of last year we began to anticipate some revenue deceleration which we saw not only in RIS but more particularly in the discretionary spending areas of our Consulting businesses.
And so we started -- we always actively manage expense but we were -- we definitely keep a very watchful eye on expenses particularly in this kind of macro environment.
And so we started decelerating our expenses as well.
And if you look even back to last year the third quarter and the fourth quarter we're decelerating and obviously in this quarter where we're overall flat on the expense side.
We're feeling a little bit better looking at the future little bit more optimistic on revenue.
But we just wanted to temper the big margin expansion so there's not an expectation.
Because obviously we don't know what the top line is.
We're out there building our top line.
I won't say emphatically that we won't deliver that kind of margin expansion because I don't know what the top line is going to be.
But I can say that if we operate the top line like we do right now in that sort of 3% or 4% range then we would not sustain the 230 basis points quarter-after-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
So you're really flexing the expenses to the revenue outlook and you're feeling a bit better there from this point forward.
Obviously outside of Oliver Wyman I would imagine.
No even within Oliver Wyman as well.
I'd be happy to hand it over to John to give you a little bit more color about Oliver Wyman and what they feel their prospects are.
John? Sure.
So if we look at Q1 before talking about the outlook I mean our weak performance in Q1 had stemmed from the challenging business conditions we faced in Q4 and in early Q1 this year where in Europe we had a recessionary economic climate persisting.
And in the U.S.
business confidence was weak largely due to political uncertainties around the fiscal cliff the sequestration and sort of stopped awards from discretionary spending reducing demand for Consulting.
So these weak -- it was a weak sales environment for us in Q4 last year and early part of this year and that translated into weak revenues particularly in the early part of Q1 this year.
Now we've seen our sales pick up during Q1 and our business performance has improved each month of the quarter.
March was our best month.
So looking ahead we expect Q2 to be better than Q1 based on our current sales and pipeline activity and expect to return to growth in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> That's great color.
And then last is just on the buybacks.
It was nice to see the buybacks in the first quarter.
As you said you hadn't done that for almost 10 years.
Can you talk about a bit about your appetite for buybacks at the current levels and what we should be expecting? Sure.
Well I mean we have increasing free cash flow over the last couple of years.
And as we grow earnings we expect that to continue.
And so when we look at uses of cash we fund some internal investments.
But that's fairly rare to get those lumps because frankly we run most of our investments through our P&amp;Ls anyway so they don't appear in extra uses of cash.
Our dividend is really sacrosanct and we maintain a strong dividend.
And then we've got an active pipeline.
So we look at acquisitions really all over the world.
We don't do that many deals but we certainly look at a lot of them.
And we can't really time that out for you.
But share repurchase to us we believe in the company.
So when we have available cash we will buy back our own shares.
Next question.
And we'll go next to Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit of what you're seeing on the reinsurance side.
You Dan you referenced softening prices a little bit.
And then vis-à-vis capital market solutions how you're positioning Carpenter to be a player in that.
Okay.
So Alex over to you.
Okay.
In the first quarter I wouldn't say that there was much effect from rates.
Obviously accounts that we have were affected by Sandy.
We saw some stiffening of rates.
And in general rates had a benign effect on the quarter.
But certainly this downward pressure is one more capital; two less cap losses; and three stronger balance sheets.
And so we're expecting to see some downward pressure.
But interestingly enough if there's cheap alternative capital you look at your capital.
We have a trenching tool and look at the cost of capital.
Actually we may be buying -- some of our clients are actually buying more reinsurance than they bought before.
As regards -- how do we deal with this new alternative capital coming in? Well we've been sort of fairly good at that in the past.
We've had a lot of success with our product -- our quill product.
And two we understand that we need to continue to expand our capabilities there.
We have a pipeline of hires who understand that business better understand the appetites of the capital that's coming in.
And so we certainly are focused on it we want to embrace it.
And we think that our value to our clients is the advice we give and we'll continue to be valuable.
Great.
And then just quickly Dan you just talked about buyback.
But I'm just curious what drove the decision to repurchase shares in the first quarter? Mike you wanted to take that? Yes thank you Dan.
Larry as you know we ended last year with $2.3 billion on our balance sheet in cash and cash equivalents.
And so not only was it robust overall but we were very effective over the course of the third fourth quarter and early part of the first quarter of bringing back a lot of that cash into the U.S.
on a very tax-efficient basis.
So as an outcome of those activities we had more flexibility in the first quarter.
And even though we had a lot of uses for the cash we felt very comfortable in repurchasing 100 million shares in the quarter.
Next question? And we'll go next to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could give little bit more color on what's going on with Mercer particularly in the Retirement area and the Talent area? Julio? Sure.
Thanks for the question Brian.
As you saw and we talked about in the past in the Talent area we have there the highest mix of project work consultancy in the globe which is of course more sensitive to economic cycles and discretionary spending decisions of our clients.
And there's no question that you can see that those types of decisions by our clients are being very defensive in the days that -- of the quarter and probably for us in days ahead as well.
But look the strength of Mercer though is its diversification.
We have significant other businesses that of course have ancillary and absolutely repeatable revenue streams.
And those that performed very well as we mentioned already in the Health area and the Investment area we saw some really good growth there.
And now it's even off of some very powerful growth that we had in the first quarter 2012 in those areas.
So we're feeling pretty comfortable about our prospects to be able to maximize our diversification of our portfolio so we can continue to grow and also improve profitability.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And can you give an update on how the healthcare exchange has gone? Yes sure absolutely.
Lots of activity to report there.
We recently announced a pretty impressive lineup of participating carriers for Health sponsored ancillary and voluntary product choices and are in active with numerous firms who are considering Mercer Marketplace for their employees in 2014 and some in 2015.
So firms like Aetna Cigna and United Healthcare Humana and Anthem [ph] have decided to participate in our core medical offering while organizations like Allstate and Met and many others who offer voluntary benefits such as P&amp;C products ID theft protection legal coverage and of course the always offered dental and vision and much more.
So our goal was to have the most flexible and complete solution in the market for companies of virtually all sizes.
And Mercer Marketplace has proven to be just that.
We can offer companies a wide range of benefits and carrier choices to offer to their employees.
Now we offer employees an excellent buying experience.
We're pretty excited about the prospects.
Research Division</strong> Are you generating revenues out of it yet? And when do you expect to start seeing revenues? No this is -- the enrollment period for 2014 will start in the fall.
So any revenue will fall into '14 not '13.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just want to -- I wonder if you could talk a bit more about the margin improvement efforts within the Consulting business.
You've had some very nice success there over the past year and I've been particularly impressed with this quarter given the weaker organic growth.
But I'm wondering is this -- how far along are you in all the stuff that you've wanted to do there? How much more stuff do you have to do that's in your control? So maybe just give us an overall update on that.
Okay.
Well I'll start with that and ultimately hand over to Julio to give you a little bit more color.
But we started really maybe 18 months ago talking about how we thought that the Consulting business could be improved on a profitability basis.
And that we could take some of the disciplines and approaches that we were using in the RIS side of the business and apply them within Consulting.
And we actually moved some people and we used some technology changed the structure to where it was more aligned with both a geographic and a line of business matrix within Mercer.
Oliver Wyman stayed on a line of business basis because it's a different kind of structure and market and we started the march.
And we talked about that really from a couple of years ago and our belief is that we can similar to the RIS side manage expenses aligned with what kind of revenue we're seeing and achieve some significant gains in margin over a long period of time.
Now consulting is a little lumpier than RIS.
It's got less recurring revenues than RIS so it might not be quarter by quarter every single quarter.
But over a long period of time we expect those margins to continue to improve.
Now I'll hand it over to Julio to give you a little bit more color.
Thank you Dan.
We're pretty pleased with the continued margin expansion that we're seeing at Mercer.
Our top line growth combined with our focus on cost discipline is really what's driving the results.
We're going to state this it's within -- a bit defensive in some places and also continue to  invest in others.
We have a significant amount of expansion that we expect in the years to come that will hopefully allow us to continue to calibrate our expenses to our growth on revenue.
And some of those you've heard me talk about before whether it's expansion in the growth market whether it's expansion in our breadth of products that we have to offer in our distribution points like Mercer Marketplace and other investments we're making in technology client-facing technology especially I think will pay dividends for us in the future and allow us to continue to calibrate appropriately with our expenses.
So we will continue to be disciplined and defensive in some areas invest in others.
And of course we don't anticipate any additional restructuring.
As you know we announced some in the fourth quarter of last year but we do expect that as our year goes on that we'll continue to invest in those things that will give us the top line and expense efficiency that we need.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Ray Iardella with Macquarie.
Dan maybe just touching on your comment about Oliver Wyman making some moves to protect profitability just curious if you can give me a little bit more color on those actions.
Okay.
I'll address it a little bit but I think it would be better for me to hand it off to John who could give you more details.
We run our businesses differently.
We have 2 segments.
And we look at Consulting in a different way than we look at RIS.
And so the models are a bit different.
And as we talked about about a year ago when Oliver Wyman's growth started to come off we were saying that that was going to be more of a revenue event than an earnings event.
And then Oliver Wyman had a more fungible business model which is sort of best-in-front in that they could fairly easily move people from one part of the world to another part of the world so it's not that they carry a lot of stranded cost on expense.
And so let me just hand it over to John to give you some more flavor.
Yes I think there are few other factors behind us protecting our margin in the first quarter.
I think first given the weak conditions we saw in Q4 2012 we expected Q1 would be challenging from a revenue standpoint.
So we took that actions to constrain our operating expenses in that environment.
The second point is that our compensation model is very performance sensitive and since it's a major part of our expense base that part of the expense basis flexes naturally down with our weaker performance.
And then finally I think coming into 2013 we expected our operating profitability of our business portfolio to be stronger.
So there were a number of expense investments for example that matured through the course of time.
And so the combination of those factors enabled us to protect our margin despite the revenue decline.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe I don't know if Peter or Dan do you want to address this but the new business in Marsh is that -- I mean how much of that is being generated out of the U.S.
versus internationally? Is there any sort of flavor you could give in terms of that number? Sure thanks.
Let me hand it over to Peter.
Sure Ray.
It's actually quite balanced the new business it has been for the last year.
The 2 regions where we had the strongest new business in the first quarter were actually the U.S.
and Latin America.
So while we're seeing from strategic investments very strong growth in the emerging part of the world we're also seeing very strong new business for the U.S.
And when you look at last year as Dan opened up with we're the top comparable.
So to get stronger new business year-over-year really is a tribute to the pipeline and how we're executing.
Okay.
And last one a numbers one if I can squeeze it in for Mike.
The CapEx you talked about for 2013 that was $350 million.
Is that correct? That's absolutely correct even including I think the $126 million in the first quarter.
We typically track around $75 million to $80 million a quarter CapEx rate.
You can see in the first quarter of last year it was about $25 million below it.
And in the first quarter it's above that.
But we think then over the course of the next 3 quarters it will track more like we normally would see in the neighborhood of $75 million to $80 million realizing it could be variable quarter-to-quarter.
Next question operator? And we'll go next to Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess one question.
Can you talk a bit on the U.S.
organic and just kind of the renewal book there and kind of what sort of trends you're seeing? Just get some color and just one quick follow-up.
Sure Mike.
I'll hand it over to Peter.
Research Division</strong> And that's on the risk side I should say.
Sure.
Sure.
For the U.S.
core business as I said the new business has been strong but the biggest contributor is really the renewal retention revenue retention.
And so a strong rollover from last year of new business very strong client retention.
I would say the third factor is modest pricing improvement.
So when we look across the different segments within the U.S.
business more of our clients are receiving rate increases than are receiving rate decreases.
The lines of business that probably are seeing the biggest increases are D&amp;O more on the financial lines access and umbrella workers' compensation.
So we have seen some benefit not much but some benefit in the U.S.
but it's been offset by the International where there's more headwinds.
Research Division</strong> So in that environment I mean does the size or scale or how do you view the reasons behind the renewal book sort of improving in quality? I think the biggest component or lift is really the strong retention that we have for client and the strong rollover we have from the production pipeline.
So again strong new business last year rollover more clients strong retention is really what the biggest contributor is.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I just -- one question maybe Dan.
Obviously Berkshire has made a couple big announcements recently.
Can you just talk about how either of those either impact your business or how you perceive their impact on the market overall? Sure.
I'm not going to get into the weeds of what other companies are doing in the market.
I think it's fair to say that there is plenty of capital in the insurance industry and that our clients are well-served and we are good intermediaries to find that capital for them when they need it.
And so at the end the insurance business is pretty healthy.
Insurance companies have done pretty well notwithstanding the big cats of 2011.
And as you look at shareholder surplus and that sort of thing it's an appealing business for many.
And so capital is continuing to rise.
And on that basis we'll continue to work with our clients to access whatever capital they need.
And we'll go next to Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Within the Risk P&amp;C business to supplemental payments commissions do they come in more in one quarter than another or are they pretty evenly spread? Peter? They're pretty evenly spread.
There's no one quarter where we would benefit more than another for any fee or commissions from insurance carriers.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
As far as Europe and the RIS services do you expect that business to flatten? Or as the environment isn't getting better the potential of that just continues to drift off? So you're talking about our EMEA segment? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Peter? That's held up very well.
I mean certainly we're very cautious as Dan said from last year looking into the economic conditions within Europe and other parts of the world.
But for us most of our European countries within EMEA grew albeit modest.
And it's been a real steady performer.
And so there's no signs to suggest that it's going to fall off from its track over the last -- for 6 quarters.
One thing to bear in mind some countries in Continental Europe are sort of weighted toward renewals in the first quarter.
So a good start to the year usually signals a decent year for them.
Research Division</strong> Right right okay.
And one final question on the health exchanges.
I know it's early but how's your pipeline looking for the 2014 enrollment? Julio? The pipeline is very strong.
As you can imagine we have client and prospects who are very interested in having deep discussions about the Mercer Marketplace alternatives.
Many of these conversations are leading to work that may not be directly related to Mercer Marketplace but thus we help our consultancy with these prospects and clients as well.
So the pipeline is strong.
Many are making decisions and we're consulting them on whether or not 2014 is the right timing or 2015 is the right timing for them.
So we'll see over the coming months as to who comes on in 2014 and who comes on in 2015.
Okay.
Operator I think it's time for 2 or 3 more questions.
So are there any other questions? Yes sir.
We'll go next to Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But just in terms of more getting a flavor for the organic growth.
I know within Oliver Wyman you had mentioned seeing trends pick up as we move throughout the quarter.
And would you say maybe the same if you're looking in terms of RIS? And also within Mercer did you see trends kind of improve as we got later on in the quarter? Was it more consistent throughout the 3 months? I think one thing when you think about RIS and about 70% of Mercer tends to be recurring revenue.
So the trends are rarely do you see acceleration.
You basically look at year-over-year in terms of what the renewal date was in the previous year.
So I think that Oliver Wyman has often been a good canary for us in terms of determining where the macro environment is going.
And Oliver Wyman is anticipating some better trends particularly towards the back half of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also in terms of the Healthcare investment from one of the questions earlier you had said we would more see some of the revenue from those exchanges come up in 2014.
Do you anticipate when we gear up towards 2014 enrollment period later this year seeing a little bit of a pickup in expenses there that might hit later in the year and then see the revenue early next year? Should we see that maybe impacting margins a little bit later on this year? Okay.
So let me answer that a little bit and then I'll hand it over to Julio.
I think one thing you have to bear in mind when there's such a change like we're seeing in healthcare reform is that the initial waves are largely around existing clients making decisions.
And certainly we're talking to a number of prospects.
But most of our time is serving customers serving existing clients.
And so when you think about okay if a client may elect to go onto the exchange or they may elect to stay out of an exchange and buy their insurance in a traditional way.
So I think at least in the early waves you have to consider that these are different choices that a client would have.
And over a long period of time what you'll see on successful exchanges will be that they'll be able to build some share because of the quality or breadth of their exchange.
Julio? In the first couple of years we don't expect a significant impact on margins or expenses quite frankly as it relates to the exchange in Mercer Marketplace in particular.
I would expect to obviously have margins that are more in line with what we're seeing today in the business as years out develop.
So I wouldn't expect a little lumpiness in this period of time.
Okay.
Operator I think we can take 1 more question.
And the final question will come from Charles Sebaski with BMO Capital Markets.
Had a question about Guy Carpenter and some of the organic growth.
I was wondering if -- how much of the growth in the quarter came from one-time transactions capital markets alternative as opposed to sort of the traditional renewal book? Okay.
Let me address this slightly and then I'll hand over to Alex.
I just want to make the point that Guy Carpenter grew 7% organically in last year's first quarter.
So they're comparable with a pretty high comparable and they've done pretty well against that comparable.
Alex? Clearly at the beginning of the year on the cap side we'll be oftentimes selling products which won't necessarily be renewed.
But we've been able to do that well.
And the bulk of our business continues to be renewable business.
And what we've done is we've increased discipline around client service improved advice as well as a very focused new business approach.
I think we've been able to keep the momentum.
Okay.
I was just wondering if there was any like large one-time capital market events that happened? No.
No.
No? Okay.
And just one follow-up.
I was wondering if there was any additional color on the MMA front on the agency business and how that's looking.
Sure absolutely.
Peter? Yes.
The MMA platform is very exciting.
We're now approaching almost $500 million in annualized revenues.
The acquisition pipeline is quite strong.
And again we don't report in the segments but they had a very good quarter in terms of growth and profitability in margin expansion.
So we're excited.
They're actually very focused on how we invest in driving organic growth so it's not just the acquisitions that are going to drive value for MMA.
We tend to do less acquisitions for a variety of reasons in the first half of the year.
But again excited about the pipeline and the prospects for future growth.
I would just like to thank all of you for joining us on the call this morning.
I'd also like to thank our clients for their support of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies and certainly our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in delivering such fine results.
Have a good day.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Second quarter 2013 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thanks Jamie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our second quarter results as reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
Also I'd like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh Head of Investor Relations.
Following my comments Mike will discuss our financial results in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies produced another quarter of excellent financial results generating adjusted operating income growth of 13%.
This comes on top of 14% growth in the second quarter of last year.
Our performance in the quarter represents another step forward in our journey to be an elite company.
We continue to successfully execute the 4-pillar strategy we first outlined in 2010 which is designed to create sustainable shareholder value.
As a global growth company the first pillar of our strategy is to grow revenue and earnings.
Despite challenging macro conditions we have consistently delivered underlying revenue growth and produced adjusted EPS growth of 13% in 2011 16% last year and 17% year-to-date.
Over the last few years we have been relentlessly pursuing efficiency gains which have funded investments in new technologies improved data and analytics and client capabilities.
Significantly improved operating performance also has allowed us to increase salaries and performance-based compensation.
For example in Risk and Insurance Services variable compensation has almost doubled in the last 5 years.
This includes productivity gains evidenced by the fact that headcount has increased modestly in RIS while revenue growth has approached $1 billion over the last 5 years.
In addition to the consistency and strength of our earnings we expect to see continued growth in cash flows.
An increasing portion of our cash flow will be available for dividends acquisitions and share repurchase.
We believe a balanced approach to deployment of capital will contribute to long-term earnings growth and maximize total return to shareholders.
Looking at our second quarter results in more detail.
Underlying revenue growth again exceeded growth in underlying operating expenses as it has for 20 of the past 21 quarters.
In the second quarter this revenue growth combined with operating leverage produced 13% growth in adjusted operating income.
And our consolidated margin increased 190 basis points 19.2% the highest second quarter margin in 9 years.
Importantly both Risk and Insurance Services and Consulting delivered double-digit growth in adjusted operating income as well as excellent margin improvement.
Risk and Insurance Services produced another excellent quarter.
Underlying revenue increased 3% at Marsh and 5% at Guy Carpenter.
Adjusted operating income for this segment rose 10% with the margin expanding to 25.6% an increase of 170 basis points.
This is the segment's highest second quarter margin since 2004.
At Marsh revenue was $1.4 billion with all major geographic regions contributing to 3% underlying revenue growth a solid performance considering it follows a 6% increase in last year's second quarter.
New business was $273 million in the quarter.
The International division expanded 3% led by 10% growth in Latin America.
This is the fourth consecutive year of double-digit underlying revenue growth in Latin America in the second quarter.
We continue to expand our International operations.
In the second quarter Marsh acquired the leading insurance brokers in Peru and the Dominican Republic.
Asia-Pacific and EMEA also contributed to Marsh's underlying revenue growth in the quarter.
In the U.S./Canada division 2% underlying growth was the same as the first quarter.
This is on top of 5% growth in the first half of last year.
Guy Carpenter also had strong performance led by its U.S.
and international operations.
This continues the long-term trend of underlying revenue growth now at 18 consecutive quarters.
Revenue was $285 million in the second quarter up 5% on an underlying basis.
This is even more impressive considering the 10% growth in last year's second quarter higher risk retentions by clients and softening pricing conditions.
Guy Carpenter's revenue growth reflects both high revenue retention rates as well as new business development.
Double-digit revenue gains were achieved in Continental Europe and the U.K.
consistent with Carpenter's goal of increasing its share outside the U.S.
Double-digit increases were also achieved at Carpenter's U.S.
and U.K.
facultative practices and its marine global specialty practice.
The Consulting segment also produced strong results.
In the second quarter revenue was $1.4 billion reflecting a rise of 2% on an underlying basis including growth of 4% at Mercer and a revenue decline at Oliver Wyman.
Adjusted underlying expenses were flat which produced adjusted operating income of $205 million an increase of 10%.
As a result the segment's margin expanded 120 basis points to 14.6% which is Consulting's highest second quarter margin since 2004.
At Oliver Wyman underlying revenue in the second quarter decreased 4% to $366 million an improvement from the first quarter.
Oliver Wyman continued to protect its profitability despite the revenue decline.
For the balance of the year we expect to see continued sequential revenue improvement.
Mercer posted strong revenue of $1 billion an increase of 4% on an underlying basis.
Growth was achieved across all geographic regions.
Health and investments continue to lead the way with growth of 6% and 9% respectively.
Retirement saw an increase in project work resulting in 2% growth.
The development of Mercer Marketplace the private U.S.
health insurance exchange launched in January continues.
In July Mercer announced an initial group of 5 employers that will offer 2014 benefits through Mercer Marketplace.
Since making this announcement 3 weeks ago Mercer has added additional clients to the platform.
Whether looking at revenue margin or earnings Mercer had an excellent quarter and first 6 months of the year.
So in summary MMC's overall performance in the second quarter and first half of the year was exceptional.
These results show that our companies' strong earnings growth continues.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Well thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
It's nice to report another strong quarter.
Revenue in the quarter was $3.1 billion an increase of 3% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 13% to $591 million and the consolidated margin increased 190 basis points to 19.2%.
GAAP EPS rose 17% to $0.69 and adjusted EPS grew 18% to $0.72.
And this is on top of a strong second quarter last year when adjusted EPS rose 22%.
For the first 6 months of this year revenue was $6.2 billion an increase of 2% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 14% to $1.2 billion and the consolidated margin increased 200 basis points to 19.4%.
GAAP EPS for the first half of the year rose 18% to $1.44 and adjusted EPS grew 17% to $1.45.
Investment income in the second quarter was $23 million compared with $4 million a year ago.
As I discussed on last quarter's call we retained carried interest in Trident III a private equity fund MMC created in 2003.
In 2006 we contributed our limited partner interest at $200 million to our U.K.
pension plan but retained our share of the general partner interest.
Recognition of carried interest is deferred until it is no longer subject to clawback.
This quarter is the first time the carried interest from Trident III has been recognized totaling $21 million which added $0.02 to EPS.
In the third quarter we anticipate $5 million in investment income primarily related to Trident III.
Interest expense in the quarter decreased from $45 million last year to $40 million in this quarter.
Our next debt maturity of $320 million is in July of next year.
Both S&amp;P and Moody's recently upgraded their outlook on MMC reflecting our strengthening financial position.
Corporate expense declined to $46 million in the quarter from $45 million last year on an adjusted basis.
In May the board authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program and increased the quarterly dividend by 9% from $0.23 to $0.25 per share effective in the third quarter.
Our cash utilization in the second quarter included $150 million to repurchase 3.7 million shares of stock $128 million for dividends and $100 million for acquisitions.
In the first half of this year we have bought back 6.4 million shares for $250 million.
We remain committed to meaningful share repurchase.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thank you Mike.
And operator we're ready to turn to the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the U.S.
growth the organic there.
What are the trends you're seeing in the U.S.
risk business at this point in time maybe from a units and pricing perspective? And how do you think that the organic there will look going forward from here? Sure.
I mean first I would just say that from an overall basis if you look at how Marsh has performed over the last several quarters they've generally been in an area of somewhere like 4% 5% and 3% growth so call it 3% to 5% growth organic.
And Guy Carpenter has pretty much been a 5% 6% and a 5% so call it more around a 5% growth over the last several quarters.
Why don't I turn to both Peter and Alex to give you some specific commentary as to how they see the P&amp;C environment in both retail and reinsurance? So Peter? Thanks Dan.
Mentioning pricing let me talk about overall margin and specifically I'll highlight the U.S.
Overall we saw a bit of slowdown when we compare the prior quarter in 2012 about 40 basis points.
U.S.
was the only major region that we saw increases in pricing albeit modest.
So when I compare year-over-year the casualty lines more of our clients saw rate increases than the prior year but the average was a little bit less.
And the one segment that did not see as much in terms of price increasing was the property.
So I feel that it's a very stable environment.
There's a couple of peaks that are being as I said mentioned in public D&amp;O workers' compensation some excess umbrella but generally speaking it's modest increases for us in terms of pricing.
Thanks Peter.
Alex? Yes so we were pleased with the growth in the U.S.
Clearly there's no tailwinds coming from rates so it's really about just doing things better.
It's about higher retentions.
We've had good new -- solid new business.
Our blend of broking analytics and strategic advisory is working well.
So no help from the rates but just doing things better concentrating on what we need to do to keep our clients.
And essentially that's it.
Yes so in summary I would say you look at the U.S.
and on the reinsurance side there'd be more downward pressure on rates so more softening activity on reinsurance.
On the retail side it's more flattish but relative to the rest of the world a bit better than the rest of the world in the U.S.
We've been at this game a long time and in years past when you see softening in reinsurance unless you have loss activity it's pretty hard to prevent that from shifting into primary 6 months 12 months 18 months down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
Very thorough.
One other one is just on capital deployment.
Good to see the buybacks and the higher dividend.
If I was to step back though and go back to the 2010 Investor Day when you sort of laid out the game plan for the corporation you guys have actually beat your guidance and beat your numbers since then.
The only component to that that I think is behind this maybe I feel that back then you mentioned that capital deployment were contributing 300 basis points to the plan.
I'm sort of wondering has capital -- where do you think capital deployment will be from here? It seems like it's picking up.
So can you sort of compare what you were thinking back in 2010 to where you're at today? There's a lot of optionality there.
Sure.
Sure.
I would say when you look at capital deployment to begin with our feeling is that we have rising free cash flow.
So number one that's a good-news story.
And then when we look at how we would deploy that cash we would probably look at dividends first.
And we would look from here to keep our payout ratios in a similar area to where they are today.
So you'd likely see us improving our dividend as we improve our earnings.
Then we look at acquisitions and we don't budget for acquisitions.
We look at a lot of things and ultimately that's a variable.
And share repurchase we're committed to share repurchase.
And if you look at the last 5 quarters we've had 5 quarters in a row of share repurchase.
So I think as you go forward you'll see us both looking at a balanced basis in terms of deployment dividend acquisitions and share repurchase.
But Mike do you want to add some color to that? Yes thank you Dan.
And Greg you're absolutely spot on looking at us historically.
Not only have we been reinvesting in our business but we've really been paying down our debt and essentially deleveraging our balance sheet.
In addition to that we had pension obligations that we've put quite a bit of our cash flow into pension obligations.
So that's historic.
If you look going forward we do not plan to delever our balance sheet actively.
We think the natural earnings that you're seeing not just this quarter but the past few years will naturally deleverage our balance sheet.
So we don't have to do any more debt pay-down and we feel that the bulk of our contributions to our global pension plans are behind us.
So as Dan said we look at the deployment of our capital on a balanced fashion going forward and we feel very good about it.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could update us on your efforts in the health exchange.
I know you had some announcements on that.
And maybe talk a little bit more detail about what's going on there and then also how we should think about maybe revenue and earnings impact as we head through the rest of the year.
Sure and your question Dan on revenue and earnings impact is that specific to the health exchange or throughout the whole company? Research Division</strong> Yes how to think about how that will play through the rest of the year.
Okay terrific.
So Julio? Thank you Dan -- both Dans.
I appreciate it.
I want to put some light on what we consider to be a pretty good milestone for us in the quarter as it relates to Mercer Marketplace.
You saw the press release came out announcing that we had 5 companies -- employers now already signed up to Mercer Marketplace.
Since then we've signed an additional 9 employers and there are a significant amount of potential opportunities for both 2014 and 2015 still pending.
Those 9 employers represent about 35 000 lives.
And why we think it's such a milestone is because it really validates several key things about Mercer Marketplace.
One is that it's very attractive to a lot of additional across-the-board industries and employers from as little as a couple of hundred employees to several thousand.
And that's been something that we've seen as a distinction based on our offer and it's beginning to hold true.
While we've always been kind of cautious about what 2014 was going to give us and we still are we certainly are seeing a lot of activity.
So it demonstrates that we have a very viable option for our clients.
In addition to that we continue to see activity we continue to see more interest and we'll see how that builds for '14 and '15.
As far as revenue is concerned as we have stated in the past there'll be no material revenue recognized in 2013.
This is for enrollment for those that are effective on January 1 2014 and beyond.
And then of course through '15 we'll see how that develops.
And thus the earnings will be the same will be no significant impact on earnings in 2013.
Now in the early years as you can think about this we of course will continue to invest.
And I believe we'll see that as this thing pans out the earnings will be similar to the type of business that we have that's not in the Mercer Marketplace.
So it'll be very consistent.
So Julio just to confirm you've got 9 companies signed up now? Nine companies signed up for about 35 000 lives.
Okay.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up there is some expense flowing through now that's already being absorbed within your margins correct? That is correct.
I mean we are taking all expense right to the operating results for the Mercer Marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other quick question.
The revenues had some modest FX headwind.
Was there any meaningful or any FX impact to earnings in the quarter? Okay.
So just one thing in terms of the expenses that we're rolling through on the health exchange one of the ways you have to look at that is with regard to health there may be some downward margin pressure on -- specifically around the health exchange because of the investments.
However we're selling more product and so there are -- typically companies are now buying up additional product like voluntary products through Mercer Marketplace.
And so it looks pretty much the same to us from a margin perspective.
So Mike do you want to take the question on FX? Yes Dan you're absolutely right.
Not only in this quarter but in almost every quarter over the last 6 quarters foreign exchange has worked against us from the standpoint of profitability because of the strengthening of the dollar against most of our -- not all but most of our major currencies but it's been something that we've been able to absorb in every quarter including this one.
And we'll go next to Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to start with a question for Alex.
As we start to see -- or not start to see -- as we see significant downward pressure on property cap reinsurance rates does it move the needle at all in terms of clients no longer retaining more and maybe taking advantage of some of the reinsurance arbitrage opportunities? So Alex do you want to take that? Yes actually we have seen the -- if your -- if the cost of your own capital is more expensive than the contingent capital out there companies are buying more reinsurance.
So it really depends on the company.
There are companies obviously that have strong balance sheets and their relative cost of capital for their different tranches makes it -- makes more sense to retain more.
And there are others that are taking advantage of the cheap capacity that's available.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in the aggregate not a dramatic change? We are -- to date no.
But we're obviously looking at it.
And what's great for us is that we can provide advice to our clients because now there's so many alternatives that they face and we look at their programs in a holistic manner.
So actually we're quite excited about what's going on.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fantastic.
And for Mike is there a good run rate for the number of shares that Marsh expects to issue this year for computation and other purposes? Mike? Thank you.
That's a very good question.
And as you know for a number of years we've had essentially performance-based awards tied to the overall growth of the operating income.
And so there we every period look and see whether there should be some additional accruals in that.
So it's hard to basically give you a calibration of the run rate because it's tied to our performance.
One of the things that I would say though is for our goal over not just this year but many years is to try to offset the potential dilution of any and all awards including stock options and that's one of the reasons why we've been doing meaningful share repurchase.
In fact over the last 5 quarters I think we did about $480 million so approaching almost $0.5 billion in share repurchase.
But to your specific question it's really hard to tell because it varies quarter-to-quarter.
And we'll go next to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions here.
First I was hoping you could talk about what the pipeline looks like right now with Oliver Wyman particularly with respect to continental Europe? Okay.
Sure.
All of one's business as you know is affected by macroeconomic conditions and conditions are still relatively weak in our major markets including Europe.
Looking ahead our recent sales and current pipeline have been strengthening to some extent.
So as Dan said based on what we're seeing we expect sequential improvement in revenue growth rate over the next couple of quarters and that will come more from North America than Europe but I think we're seeing improvement in both.
And Brian just the way we look at it on an overall management team basis Oliver Wyman in many quarters and in many years actually ends up outgrowing all the other OpCos.
This year is obviously a tough year.
And so from that standpoint it's not going to be a big provider of revenue growth for us so the direction of John and his team are to protect earnings.
And they've been doing a really good job of making sure that the revenue shortfalls is not really an earnings event for us.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Great.
And then next question I guess is for both Dan and Mike.
When I look at your capital management and I look at your debt-to-capital ratios and I look at your debt-to-EBITDA you're sitting here near historical lows.
I guess my question is is there a need to continue to let leverage decline? Why can't you take advantage of some of the low interest rates right now and actually lever up a little bit to buy back some stock at attractive levels? And so I'll take that and then hand over to the expert in Mike.
But ultimately the way I would first look at this is this is what we would call a high-class problem.
And so from that standpoint we're a conservative company and we're looking to make sure -- I mean when I look at things personally it would be hard for me to think that we should lever up specifically to buy back stock.
We could certainly lever up to make acquisitions if they became available to us or -- but I do think with enough of our increasing cash flow we will have meaningful share repurchase in future quarters and in future years.
And so the notion of levering up even though it may have a slight appeal at this moment in time just strikes us as not being in the philosophy of this conservative firm.
But Mike do you want to add to that? Yes I think it's well said Dan.
Starting from this premise that you look at your entire capital structure and Brian you also look at your cash on hand and you look at where it is and how you can deploy that.
And so before we're thinking of going to the capital markets we want to make sure that we're effectively using our capital.
And I know you follow us closely so that you're aware that over the last year we were very effective in not only utilizing our international cash but bringing it back into the U.S.
And so we could do along the lines of what you're saying repurchase our stock.
We did 100 million in the first -- $100 million in the first quarter of this year the first time in many many years that we repurchased in the first quarter.
So that was really utilizing our own cash on a global basis.
The second thing then we look at and as Dan and I have talked about on this call is that we take a balanced approach.
We want to put our capital deployment to dividends acquisitions and share repurchase.
So really reinvesting back into the business either direct capital investments or acquisitions is a primary goal but conversely returning capital to the shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase is very important so it's a blend.
And then the last thing as Dan said we have a journey to elite.
And when we've looked at companies around the world that are generally viewed as elite companies their credit metrics typically have an A in it.
So it's important to us.
The last thing that would do is it gives us a cushion with regard to any future negative consequences that we may see in the macro environment or as Dan said opportunities that we may see going forward.
So we think that the balanced approach is really a good guideline for analysts and investors.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you elaborate a bit on the reinsurance side in terms of capital markets activity that you're seeing participating in and whether or not that's been a contributor or you saw that in 2Q results and whether or not you expect that to be a bigger piece of the pie going forward? Okay sure.
Alex? So we reckon there's about $45 billion of convergent capital in the market.
Not all of it is being deployed or can't find a place to be deployed.
But clearly there was an effect on the Florida renewals.
It's essentially as you know focused on cat.
Yes I -- the question is -- some of it is pension money some of it is private equity money.
The pension money tends to stay for a long time so we'll see what the effect will be on that.
But we've had good activity on the cat bond side.
I think there's been about $4.2 billion issued more or less and we've been involved in about $2.2 billion.
So we're geared for that activity as well.
And if you look at it Mike we're an intermediary and so we can -- we're always looking at ways of creating value for clients.
When we look for our clients having many sources of capital both traditional and alternative is a good thing.
And our clients need advice.
They would need somebody to evaluate the alternative forms and negotiate terms and conditions et cetera.
We've had some interesting work between Guy Carpenter and Marsh of late which gives an example of the type of thing that could happen where there may be some pressure in certain areas of Guy Carpenter on the cat side but then there could be opportunities between Guy Carpenter and Marsh on the retail side.
So Peter do you want to talk a little bit about the recent MTA transaction? Sure.
Thanks Dan.
We're very excited.
We did our first cat bond for one of our clients.
As Dan mentioned the MTA so it's a $200 million cat bond and it's a real strong example of when we can bring the power of MMC together by using 2 operating companies to deliver a solution for our clients.
We're actually starting to develop a pipeline.
It tends to be very industry-specific.
Don't think it'll replace any traditional capital that's being deployed for our clients but it's very complementary and one that we expect to see more demand over time.
We'll take our next question from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up on free cash flow expectations and the earlier comment about the pension contribution falling.
Could you put some figures around how much lower the pension contribution run rate could fall especially given the interest rates and equity markets have been moving north? Sure Mike.
Mike do you want to take that? Yes the one thing Mike that we've learned many many years is because the remeasurement of our pension obligations occurs at the end of the year.
And where interest rates are at the end of the year even though things look favorable today we have to wait till the end of the year.
But that said let me give you a little bit more color with regard to the pension obligations that we've been dealing with.
Over the last 2 years our committed funding levels in 2012 and 2013 were in the neighborhood of $320 million.
In 2012 on top of that $320 million we put $100 million of discretionary contribution into our U.K.
plan.
It was using our excess capital.
We were able to do it on a tax-efficient basis.
And obviously it helped the funding ratios in the U.K.
As we went into this year on top of roughly the $320 million of obligations that we had we thought that it was very prudent to basically do prefunding in the U.K.
of about $250 million once again tax-efficient basis utilizing our international cash and about $70 million into our Canadian plans.
As a result of that we're anticipating that total funding for this year will be in the neighborhood of $650 million.
So having said that the U.K.
funding that the $250 million included prefunding it was prefunding of some of our obligations in the U.K.
that would affect 2014 '15 and perhaps '16.
And so we think that based upon all of that there will be a market decrease with regard to the levels or our pension obligations and the funding going forward in '14 '15 and most likely beyond.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's great color.
The last question is in regards to the business climate in Europe.
Some economists are cautiously optimistic saying GDP has troughed.
What is Marsh seeing on that front? Okay.
Why don't we do 2 things.
Well I'll address it overall and then if we just kind of quickly go around the horn and have each of our operating companies give you a little bit of color of how they're viewing things in Europe these days.
We've read some of the same material and of course oftentimes the insurance specifically might be a lagging indicator and consulting may be a forward indicator in terms of activity.
So we often look to OW as sort of our canary in the coal mine to try to get a view as to what's business sentiment like and whether discretionary spending is picking up.
Bearing in mind in terms of insurance contracts tend to be annual and Europe at least in certain countries is weighted toward January 1 so you don't see really any pickup until the following January 1 period.
But why don't we go around the horn starting with John Drzik of Oliver Wyman? So as I said earlier I think the conditions for us are showing a slight uptick so we're seeing a little bit of improvement.
So -- but I'd say on the whole conditions are still relatively weak.
Our clients are still relatively cautious in terms of their discretionary spending and so we're not seeing a major change.
But I would say the directional indicators we see in our pipeline and from our business leadership that things are modestly improving in Europe.
Peter? Yes so as Dan said sometimes we're a trailing indicator.
I wouldn't read into our quarter in terms of underlying growth in EMEA as one that would look similar in the future meaning that we had really challenging comparables in the prior years.
We had very strong growth in both the U.K.
and Continental Europe.
We have a really strong pipeline of new business.
We had good new business growth in the quarter.
There's some modest economic headwinds that are combined with pricing so we see a little bit of headwind in the exposure in pricing but nothing that I would be concerned about trending forward.
And there's always timing in the quarter.
So overall we're cautiously optimistic and expect to see continued organic growth.
Alex? So reinsurance isn't -- whether reinsurance is that correlated with economic conditions? If you've seen over the last 3 years we've grown at a nice lick there so it's more really about capacity and about losses.
So we continue to look for growth.
Julio your view about Europe? Yes I mean our year-to-date growth in Europe continues to be positive.
We certainly can't control the external environment but we're trying hard to make sure that pipeline and opportunities that present themselves we are very prepared and very well positioned to take advantage of it.
So given some -- we've had some situations or some restructuring taking place there for some of our clients and we certainly are well positioned for that.
And our product side services and some of our survey business continues to be in high demand in that part of the world.
So we think that the top line while a little bit softer than prior years continues to be positive and is tracking pretty well.
Yes and just to add a little bit of overall flavor Mike in sort of tying together the comment that I had made earlier I think in response to Brian's question about whether we should lever up and buy back shares and my comment that we're a conservative company and that we would always look at making sure that we have enough powder dry for acquisitions if opportunities presented themselves.
The way we look at the world is we're pretty much in an age of uncertainty.
And I don't think anybody with their hand on heart can really give you a clear prognosis about macro conditions in Europe what could conceivably happen in China what could conceivably happen in the Middle East.
I mean there's a lot of flux.
And being a conservative company and having the capability to be able to act quickly if certain opportunities presented themselves.
So the way we look at it is if the world recovers we're in great shape.
If the world doesn't and actually turns downward we're in good shape too.
So that's our view on that.
And we'll go next to Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to drill down a bit on Guy Carpenter.
The 5% organic revenue growth despite the impact of downward pressure on reinsurance pricing.
I was hoping you can deconstruct that a bit and essentially how much of that is driven outside of increased issuance in alternative facilities.
Sure.
So Alex how much is traditional growth and how much are you being supplemented by all this alternative capacity? I think traditional growth would be about 98% of what we -- of the reason.
The fact is that Carpenter has been investing well.
We are -- I think we're the employer of choice.
Good people have been joining us.
Our accounts our large accounts are pristine prestige accounts and they've been growing too and we've been growing with them.
We have a good blend of broking and strategic advisory and analytics.
And it's really about value.
And it's also about making sure that you see a client on a regular basis you do all the blocking and tackling and retention is high and new business is good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
For Mike on the Trident III that benefited from the additional investment income is there any way to think about how much more could flow through in future quarters so we can calibrate models? So Mike? Jay that's a very good question.
And as you know on investment income we really try to help analysts look to what the next quarter may be.
And that's why we gave you an indication of about $5 million including Trident III because we know it's very difficult certainly when Trident II was liquidating over a 3- or 4-year period.
So the question that you have specifically gets to Trident III and as we said this is the first quarter that we've actually booked carried interest because it's really the first time period that Trident III has started to liquidate its position.
But I think its portfolio which I have not tracked as closely as Trident II but I think the portfolio is well over $1 billion.
And so as Trident III gets liquidated which could occur over 3 or 4 years we do not control it we do not manage it and so we'll just have to see how it comes through.
Now there's an additional hurdle with regard to the carried interest because the way that we book it for accounting it has to be to a point where there is no clawback capability which means that if the rest of the portfolio went to 0 we would still be entitled to what we booked through our income.
So sorry I can't give you more specifics other than it could go a number of years as we work our way through it.
But it's a nice story and it will be additional cash to us and additional earnings.
But obviously it's investment income it's not operating and that's why we try to isolate it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then finally for Dan can you tell us a bit more about your appetite for bolt-on acquisitions both in RIS and Consulting since there seems to be a continued interest level in that area? Yes and I would say very strong.
I mean we've done a series of acquisitions.
I mean if you look in total over the last 5.5 or 6 years we've done about 60 acquisitions.
Most of them have been in RIS and clearly MMA has been a core strategy to that.
When we look at acquisitions we look at a lot of factors.
The first factor is generally does it make us better? Does it give us something that we don't have? Does it expand a capability a segment a geography? And then what's the management team like and are they committed to working not only over the long term but also working at a bigger organization like us? And we feel that there's an awful lot of companies out there that when they look at the world today and the macro uncertainty and the higher degrees of regulation and risk in compliance activities and just the sheer level of items that management teams have to deal with many of these smaller companies come to the realization that they're spending too much time on running this business and not enough time on chasing new accounts and servicing existing accounts.
And so we become a very good alternative.
Now I can tell you around the world we don't jump opportunistically at every thing that presents itself because our own feeling is this is more like a courtship that generally takes several years to develop to make sure that there's an affinity between the acquirer and the company being acquired.
And so we have a pretty rich pipeline but no schedule in order to execute that pipeline.
There are certain acquisitions that we have done that literally we have cultivated for years.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Yes we understand there's a big pipeline there.
And we'll take our next question from Thomas Mitchell with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sure that you've done a very good job on handling expenses overall in the -- on the Consulting side.
I'm just wondering in a sense in terms of year-over-year comparisons can we continue to expect to see expenses decline while revenues are up a little bit going forward? Yes no Tom it's a great question.
So let me just take it first by saying our goal is to achieve double-digit earnings growth in most years over the long term.
And we fully understand in order to achieve a goal like that we need to continuously improve performance and continuously invest in our business our technologies our -- and our colleagues.
And so I want to assure you that even though you're seeing flat expenses now we are spending money.
We're spending money on colleagues we're spending money on investing for future growth and we are harvesting operational improvements that we have developed over the last several years and that we are continuing to develop.
So I would say that a lot's going on under the hood and that the fact is we're benefiting on some roll-forward of prior actions and efficiency gains but we don't -- the cupboard's not bare.
We're still achieving additional efficiency gains so we definitely feel that we'll be able to manage expenses.
Whether we manage them at a flat or we manage them at low single digits we'll still be containing our expenses for the foreseeable future.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's a good answer.
And on a more very mundane basis the accounting item -- adjustments to acquisition-related accounts contingent consideration related to acquisitions just reading that it sounds to me like if you made a good acquisition that's a number that would grow in the future.
Do I have that right or wrong? No basically this is related to the earnouts on acquisitions.
Many of the acquisitions that we do have an earnout component.
When a firm that we acquire underperforms our expectations of what we have within the earnout then you would see a negative on that line.
And when a -- one of our acquired companies actually outperforms the earnout calculation then we'll put additional money against the contingent consideration.
Mike do you have anything? Yes Tom I would just say it's also a mechanism that we use to bridge the future -- perhaps the differences between the future outlooks of the sellers and ourselves and whereas sellers may be absolutely more optimistic and rosy about the outlook and we're more conservative.
And so instead of giving the consideration upfront we basically have an agreement to say that if the optimism manifests itself we'll all be happy.
So essentially the way we would view it we paid a little bit more for an acquisition but the results were much better than we thought.
Conversely it's a protection for our shareholders if the results as Dan said don't perform based upon the expectations of the seller.
The nice thing is I think over the last 5 years where we've done about what $1.5 billion $1.7 billion of acquisitions value in total the actual contingent consideration has been very modest.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so going forward though I'm just assuming that if you continue to make acquisitions every year then -- and you're conservative in your assumptions you will in fact have an item like this more or less continuously? Tom you're absolutely right.
I mean that account changes every quarter.
We have additions we have payments made out we have revaluation impact.
At the end of the quarter it was in the neighborhood of $80 million.
But it will be continuous with regard to how we do the structure of the deal.
As a result of that we view it just as purchase or acquisition accounting which is why we do not include it in our adjusted earnings and why we exclude it.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to go ahead and turn the call back to you Mr.
Glaser for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay perfect.
Thank you Jamie.
I want to thank all of you for joining us on the call this morning.
I mean this call is naturally oriented toward shareholders but I also want to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to our 54 000 colleagues for their hard work and dedication in delivering such fine results and to our tens of thousands of clients for their belief in Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
So thank you very much.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Please have a great day.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Third quarter 2013 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risk and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
And now I'll turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter results reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
I'd also like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and John Drzik of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh Head of Investor Relations.
Following my comments Mike will discuss our financial results in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
Before I turn to the quarter I would like to take a moment to recognize our Vice Chairman David Nadler who will retire at year-end after 13 years with the company.
David leaves MMC with my personal appreciation as well as that of our executive committee and the Board of Directors for a job exceedingly well done.
Marsh &amp; McLennan's performance in the third quarter included 15% growth in adjusted operating income.
This result underscores our journey to be an elite company as we successfully execute our 4-pillar strategy to create sustainable long-term shareholder value.
As a global growth company the first pillar of our strategy is to grow revenue and earnings.
We have consistently delivered underlying revenue growth.
We have also steadily expanded adjusted EPS in recent years including increases of 13% in 2011 16% last year and 17% through 9 months of this year.
At the same time we continued to execute on our other 3 pillars by maintaining low capital requirements intelligently managing the risk profile of the firm and generating strong free cash flow.
Our results reflect significant investment in our businesses that we absorb on an ongoing basis.
In addition an increasing portion of our growing cash flow is available for dividends acquisitions and share repurchase.
We believe a balanced approach to deployment of capital will contribute to long-term earnings growth and maximize total return to shareholders.
Now let's look at our third quarter results in more detail.
Both Risk and Insurance Services and Consulting delivered double-digit growth in adjusted operating income and excellent margin improvement as they have each quarter this year.
Our consolidated adjusted margin rose 150 basis points to 14.1%.
Underlying revenue growth again exceeded the increase in underlying operating expenses as it has for 21 of the past 22 quarters.
We expect to continue to achieve operating leverage while making investments across our businesses.
The operational improvements we have embedded over the last several years have led to higher colleague productivity efficiencies in our global real estate footprint and reduce professional liability costs.
At the same time we are continuously investing in areas that will support future growth and drive additional efficiencies.
We are investing in growth markets and new offerings building sales capacity expanding distribution creating innovative analytical platforms and capabilities and making strategic hires and acquisitions.
We are confident we have a powerful engine to generate revenue and earnings growth in both segments.
Risk and Insurance Services produced another quarter of excellent profitability as adjusted operating income rose 14%.
Underlying revenue increased 3% at Marsh and 5% at Guy Carpenter.
The adjusted margin expanded to 15.2% the segment's highest third quarter margin in a decade and an increase of 130 basis points from the prior year.
At Marsh revenue was $1.2 billion as all major geographic regions contributed to 3% underlying revenue growth.
The international division expanded 6% led by growth of 15% in Latin America 7% in Asia Pacific; and 3% in EMEA.
In the U.S./Canada division underlying growth was 1%.
Revenue growth was driven by client revenue retention supported by strong new business which totaled over $250 million in the third quarter.
Guy Carpenter continued its solid financial performance and long-term trend of underlying revenue growth.
Revenue was $262 million in the third quarter an increase of 5% on an underlying basis.
This is an impressive performance in an environment where Guy Carpenter is experiencing higher risk retentions by clients and softening pricing conditions.
Growth was broad-based across North America International Global Specialties and U.K.
facultative led by double-digit gains in Continental Europe Canada and Global Marine.
Consulting's performance in the third quarter was outstanding.
Revenue was $1.4 billion up 4% on an underlying basis the segment's best performance in the last 5 quarters.
Adjusted underlying expense growth of 1% reflects the benefit of prior actions and expense control.
This produced adjusted operating income of $231 million an increase of 13% marking the segment's third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
And the segment's margin increased 150 basis points to 16% Consulting's highest third quarter margin in its history.
This marked improvement has occurred while navigating challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Mercer had an excellent third quarter.
Revenue was $1.1 billion an increase of 4% on an underlying basis.
Health and Investments continued to lead the way with increases of 5% and 8% respectively.
Retirement had an increase in project work resulting in 2% growth and talent grew 2% as well.
Growth was achieved across all geographic regions.
In October Mercer announced that it had signed up 52 employers onto its private U.S.
health care exchanges.
Since that time Mercer has signed up an additional 4 employers and now has 34 that will offer benefits through Mercer Marketplace its active exchange and 22 employers that are offering Mercer's Medicare retiree exchange solution.
In total Mercer's exchanges will cover over 220 000 employees retirees and family members for 2014.
Oliver Wyman returned to positive revenue growth in the third quarter with underlying revenue increasing 2% to $365 million.
The revenue increase was driven by Financial Services Oliver Wyman's largest practice which represents approximately 40% of its revenue.
Oliver Wyman's sequential improvement in revenue performance was broad-based across major regions including North America and Europe.
In summary MMC's performance in the third quarter and through the first 9 months of the year was excellent.
Our results show that the company's strong earnings momentum continues.
We will host an Investor Day in New York on March 11 where we will provide more insight into MMC's operational and financial strategies.
We hope you will join us.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter MMC's revenue was $2.9 billion an increase of 4% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income increased 15%.
The consolidated margin increased 150 basis points to 14.1% and adjusted EPS grew 18% to $0.46.
These results are on top of 18% growth in adjusted EPS in the third quarter of last year.
With investment income was $0.01 higher than anticipated in the quarter this was more than offset by a higher tax rate that negatively impacted EPS by approximately $0.02.
For the 9 months of this year MMC's revenue was $9.1 billion an increase of 3% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income increased 15% with the margin increasing 190 basis points from 15.8% to 17.7%.
GAAP EPS for the 9 months increased 14% to $1.89 and adjusted EPS grew 17% to $1.91.
Investment income.
The recognition of carried interest from Trident III led to investment income of $14 million this quarter.
While it is difficult to forecast we anticipate approximately $10 million of investment income in the fourth quarter.
Taxes.
The corporate tax rate in the U.K.
was reduced in July.
While this will benefit us going forward the value of our U.K.
deferred tax asset was reduced which is the main reason for the increase in this quarter's tax rate to 32.4%.
MMC's tax rate for the first 9 months of this year was 30.2% which is more representative of our underlying tax rate.
Interest expense in the third quarter decreased from $44 million last year to $40 million this quarter.
When we funded our $250 million debt maturity in February from available cash we indicated that we planned to enter the debt markets later in the year.
In September the company issued $500 million of debt comprised of $250 million of 5-year senior notes and $250 million of 10-year maturities.
Additionally proceeds from the new debt issuance were used in October to redeem $250 million of our existing senior notes due in 2015.
This new funding allowed us to refinance at lower interest rates while at the same time extending the average maturity of our debt portfolio.
The cost of the early extinguishment of the 2015 debt was $24 million or $0.03 per share.
This expense will be included in both GAAP and adjusted fourth quarter results.
Cash utilization.
Cash on the balance sheet at quarter end was $2.2 billion.
The increase from last quarter reflects strong operating cash flows in the $500 million debt financing.
Our cash utilization in the third quarter included $150 million to repurchase 3.6 million shares of stock marking 6 consecutive quarters of share buybacks.
Year-to-date we have purchased 10 million shares of our stock for $400 million.
Also in the quarter approximately $140 million of cash was used for dividends which reflects the recent 9% dividend increase and $20 million related to acquisitions.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thank you Mike.
So operator we are ready to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In Risk and Insurance Services U.S.
and Canadian organic growth has been trending very very low single digits on an organic basis.
Could you talk to the market dynamics and outlook and also how Marsh &amp; McLennan agencies middle markets strategy has been impacting the segment's growth rate? Okay so first of all I'll just say that in the RIS segment we have Marsh and we have Guy Carpenter and your question is really pertaining more to Marsh than it is to the entire segment.
So I'll hand off to Peter who can give us a little bit more detail.
Sure.
Thanks Dan.
First I'd like to highlight some of the real strong performance we had in the quarter and year-to-date.
Latin America as Dan said in his opening we had 15% growth.
Asia-Pac was 7% and despite economic headwinds in EMEA we had 3%.
We recognize in the U.S.
/Canada division we have had modest growth at 1% in the quarter.
It's a seasonably low quarter for Marsh and the U.S./Canada division.
We have had in the quarter some negative variability from some of the programs we have within the segment and we would expect growth to be higher in the future than what we have reported in this particular quarter.
Some of the fundamentals are quite strong.
New business through the 9 months is up year-over-year and as we mentioned we had record new business when we look at the comparables year-over-year.
So overall again it's been a little bit lumpy.
If you look at our comparisons to competitors you have to remember we don't report Latin America in our U.S./Canada division and also employee Health &amp; Benefits for the core brokerage in the U.S.
is reported in Mercer.
To answer the second part of your question on agency they've had good organic growth where we would expect them to be in line with their comparables in the middle market in the U.S.
So they've been growing organically have been making a contribution and exactly where we thought they would be on the revenue and margins at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Lastly this is probably for Mike Bischoff.
Is there any kind of sensitivity or you can give us around the pension-related expenses and cash contributions? If the assumptions are changed at the end of the year.
I believe since the plans are open there could be a material impact to the expense level as well running to the income statement? So Mike you want to take that? Sure I'd be happy to.
You're absolutely right on 2 categories.
First pension expense and second contributions into our pension plans.
Let me deal with the pension expense first to put it into context.
The main driver of the change in pension expense on a GAAP basis year-over-year is interest rates and over the last 5 years we've seen interest rates go down dramatically.
I should say this is more in the immediate -- intermediate and longer-term rates where the discount rate is calculated.
And we've absorbed through our P&amp;L approximately $250 million of additional pension expense during that time period.
So your question is very appropriate.
What's the outlook going forward? Well the irony of pension expense accounting is that you do a measurement at year-end and so you don't take the average where interest rates or the discount rate would be over the course of the year.
You do it at year-end.
And for that reason it's very hard to anticipate where pension expense would be.
I would just point you to -- say that there's 2 interest rates that you should track.
One is obviously the U.S.
rate and the other one is the U.K.
rate because we have a very large U.K.
pension plan.
The second part of your question deals with cash contributions into the plan and you can see that we're on track including the pre-funding of some of our obligations to fund about $650 million into our global pension plans this year.
We would think that that would be markedly reduced for 2 reasons.
At this point in time we do not plan to make any discretionary contributions into our global plans.
And as we've indicated $250 million of the funding for this year was dedicated to pre-funding of future obligations in the U.K.
that would cover the '14 '15 and '16 time period.
And we'll go next to Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the -- your healthcare exchange initiative.
Really 2 questions around that.
First your large competitor has -- is guiding to a lot of seasonality in their Consulting segment and partially due to the way the revenues flow in revenues and costs flow due to health care exchanges.
Do you have similar seasonality as they do? Therefore it might be a big fourth quarter.
And where will we see that which division should we be modeling that in? And then the other question in healthcare exchange just could you compare and contrast your initiative relative to others in the marketplace? Okay Julio so the first question first.
Okay thank you.
I'm going to start off by saying that we have a large business of course in total Mercer.
That's right over $4 billion of revenue.
Any movement in the exchange in 1 quarter or the other would have some impact but not significant impact in the overall results in Mercer.
It's a very large organization.
But specific to your question about whether or not you're going to see a fourth quarter bump or not in revenue so let me just say simply no.
Even though a lot of the work and a fair amount of work is done in all of our H&amp;B business that we work on in the third and fourth quarter of this year the actual exchange contracts themselves incept on January 1 in this case 2014.
So the revenue will be earned throughout the 2014 year and so there will be little -- in fact there'll be no revenue in fourth quarter 2013 and then there will be an appropriate revenue throughout the year in 2014.
Thank you Julio.
And the second question was if I paraphrase Greg how would you compare Mercer Marketplace with the competitive offerings in the market? Yes great question Greg.
Because I know with everything that's going on sometimes it's difficult to see whether there's distinctive factors.
I want to really focus on a couple of things that I think has been out there and first allow me to level-set a bit.
Mercer Marketplace supports both a fully-insured and self-insured funding model and funding models.
Mercer Marketplace also offers a panel of carriers for either structure.
Mercer Marketplace offers core medical.
And in addition to core medical also voluntary and ancillary products.
Of our clients on the platform to date roughly about 75% of them have chosen fully-insured model and the remainder have chosen self-insured model.
This is a reflection of the more middle market representation in our book.
Generally mid-market companies have fully-insured and they've chosen to continue that fully-insured under the Mercer Marketplace model.
Our larger clients again determined that they are most advantaged by staying in self-funded options and they continue to use those under Mercer Marketplace.
Even in an active exchange no matter what the model each employer group is rated separately.
So in our exchange we ensure that competitive pricing is taking place for each one of our clients as we work with carriers to design programs for them and their group.
A self-insurance funding model tends to be lower cost overall for larger groups due to savings on risks changes as well as premium taxes.
And so these advantages don't necessarily go away when you go on to the exchange.
So overall when you combine what we believe is a very large availability of choice we have up to -- we have 30 carriers as an example on our particular exchange.
Some of them of course work just in the core medical space and some of them in the ancillary and voluntary space.
When you compare all those advantages we think we're very well-positioned as we look at the competition and the future.
Perfect.
Thank you Julio.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks and then one quick follow-up on that is just can you remind us what the economic model is around the exchanges both from a revenues and a margins perspective? Sure.
Julio? Okay.
Thank you Dan.
We have had a -- there's a lot of discussion going on and speculation about how big this market is going to be in time and certainly and how quickly it's going to develop.
I'm not going to get too crazy about the speculation of that.
I'll leave that for others.
But based on what we have seen in our own book and through this sales season I think we know that there's significant interest by our clients.
I think the concept is obviously something that generates that interest and the trend is certainly here to stay.
That said it's anyone's guess as to how big this also will become and no matter what the outcome we think we're very well-positioned.
So as Dan mentioned earlier we're very pleased with the clients that we've sold in the first year so far.
And we're pleased with the pipeline that's developing not only for '15 but also for mid-year '14 and we've been pretty consistent in saying that while we expect these changes to be a contributor to revenue and earnings in the medium term in the short-term the impact will be modest.
Thanks Julio.
And we'll go next to Larry Greenberg with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
One can you talk a little bit about the turnaround in the organic at Oliver Wyman? And how much of that might be Europe coming back? And then just to stay with Julio you're driving a really strong margin improvement and we know you're spending money on investment initiatives and we're all fixated on the health care exchanges but just wondering if you might be able to comment on some of the other initiatives you have in place that may be pretty specifically directed towards margin improvement.
Okay Larry.
So let's start with John on the turnaround.
I'm not sure we would use that same word in terms of a full turnaround but we're happy to see positive growth return.
And I only say that because when we think about turnaround we generally think about profitability as well and John and his team have done a really superb job of fighting through some struggles on the top line and maintained it on the bottom line.
And so from that standpoint it's hats off to John and his team.
But John you want to talk about the return to growth? Sure.
As Dan said Larry in his opening comments our performance has been steadily improving through the year and business has actually been strengthening in all of our major regions.
So to your question Europe has contributed to that growth and we do see improved conditions in Europe and expect that to be sustained.
North America has also contributed as has our international market.
So overall we're seeing growth -- or improvement across-the-board and we expect that improvement to sustain.
So looking ahead based on the pipeline we're seeing we expect to sustain positive revenue growth in Q4 and have good momentum going into 2014 in all of our major markets.
Okay and then turning to Julio and I'd just start by saying that we've been really pleased with both of our segments.
I mean with Marsh and Guy Carpenter we started margin improvements several years ago and that has created its own momentum and has sustained itself and we have every expectation that the Consulting segment albeit in its second year of significant margin improvement will sustain margin improvements in the future.
So Julio do you want to take that? Thanks Dan.
The third quarter represented another quarter of solid performance for Mercer.
We continue to execute on our growth initiatives.
We're delivering against our strategic priorities and we're generating increasing earnings and margins just as we have really over the last several quarters.
Our revenue as you know is up 4%.
The areas that we continue to see improvement in are the ones we're investing in.
Of course the health area and investment business overall.
We're also seeing some good growth coming from our growth markets initiatives to expand internationally and we're seeing the beginning fruits of that labor.
And we're also seeing good margin improvement as well in those same areas where we traditionally had done some investments in different ways in the past.
We continue to carefully manage expenses as you can imagine.
I mean you go in an organization you have opportunity to really take a bird's eye view on what's going on.
You make assessments where you need to disinvest.
And at the same time you make assessments where you need to invest more and we've been doing that and calibrating that over the last couple of years and that's also going to be a discipline that we'll continue to do as time goes on.
As far as specific areas of investment that we're making in our business we continue to be very focused on ensuring that when we think about investments we think about them in short medium and long-term ways and so exchanges obviously is one thing that we've talked about and I'm sure we'll continue to talk about as time goes on.
But talent client -- talent and client-facing technology is very important to us as well and we've put a lot of breadth of improvement especially in an area that's like data and surveys.
We see good margins there and obviously we're investing in those areas to bring that to be a larger portion of our portfolio.
We're taking legacy systems and we're obviously retiring some investing in new generation systems.
Salesforce.com was a big investment for us.
We think that we'll be able to enhance our broadening of client relationships through having a good CRM tool which also will continue to improve margin and hopefully top line overtime.
Retirement Studio which is an enabling vehicle for us to be able to do some additional actuarial work for retirement.
Strategic hires expansion and geographic growth areas like emerging markets that I mentioned earlier.
And platforms to expand our delegated Investment Solutions and you see that continuing to move in the right direction profitably.
So all these things I think are things that we continue to look at continue to invest.
We continue to calibrate appropriately again disinvestment and investment.
We'll continue to do that and run the company in a disciplined manner.
Okay thanks Julio.
Next question please? And we'll go next to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Of the roughly $2.2 billion of free cash in the balance sheet can you give us the mix of international versus U.S.
cash currently? And then could you also talk about the outlook for getting cash from the international subs to the U.S.
as we move through the rest of the year? Okay.
Mike do you want to handle that? Yes the $2.2 million of cash at the end of the quarter -- I'm sorry $2.2 billion.
Yes where'd that extra money go anyway? Of that $2.2 billion there's actually $2 174 000 000.
$250 million of it as I indicated was paid down in October for funding the 2015 debt.
And so when you look at our remaining cash what we typically do during this time period is you see it grow because we're working towards the first quarter with regard to bonus payments.
So it's very typical for us to have higher levels of cash not only at the end of the third quarter but at the end of the fourth quarter.
But going to the heart of your question you'll also notice on a year-over-year basis our cash is down when you look at it quarter-to-quarter not sequentially.
And the reason for that is that we are and have had a strategy to bring back in a tax-efficient manner our international cash for U.S.
funding purposes and those funding purposes are acquisitions in the U.S.
dividends and share repurchase.
And so we're the process of moving more of our international funds even as I'm speaking now into the U.S.
for share repurchase and for looking at bonus payments in the first quarter.
So overall we're working down our excess cash.
We're bringing it into the U.S.
in a tax-efficient manner and it's a very good story with regard to returning capital to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Can you give the mix of how much is U.S.
now or is it more appropriate to wait till fourth quarter given you're in the process? I think it's probably more appropriate to wait.
I have right in front of me the Treasury sheet that gives me on a daily basis what our mix is between the U.S.
and global.
So I have that information but I think it's probably just best to wait.
Thanks Mike.
Any other questions Dan? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just also just on your -- just with regard to Guy Carpenter I was wondering if you could talk about the outlook for growth going forward.
I mean you've had continued nice organic there.
And I think your competitors have as well maybe better than I would've thought given some potential headwinds there that we're seeing on pricing.
But maybe if you could talk about the outlook and then also maybe other revenue opportunities that could emerge because of some of the changes in the marketplace.
Alex you want to take that? Sure.
As you say we've been on a good run of organic growth for quite a while.
And despite I would say headwinds during all that and I think that stands to the quality of our people the quality of our offering and the fact that we have good discipline.
We've widened our net.
We've segmented our client base and we're coming up with discreet value propositions for each of those areas.
I would point out a mutual segment that's very successful and E&amp;S segment that we've just opened up.
We've invested in Accident and Health which we see as a growth area of course and areas such as agriculture as well as overseas.
So we think that there is room to grow.
We think that we're the employer of choice.
We've got the best people.
We're investing and we will continue to grow we believe.
Thanks Alex.
And we'll go next to Meyer Shields with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I can follow up on that question.
Does the -- I guess recent merger of 2 slightly smaller reinsurance brokerages does that change the competitive dynamics in your reinsurance markets? Clearly there's a change because something just happened but we'll continue to -- we respect our competitors but we're focused on our clients and focused on growing focused on having the best people investing right and that's what we'll continue to do.
So we're not blind we keep our eyes open but we move ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And we generally -- Meyer we generally think competition is a good thing.
Competition keeps us on our toes and makes sure that we're always innovating and creating additional value for clients.
And so we have a lot of respect for our competitors but we believe our proposition is unique.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes and the results have certainly been there.
One quick numbers question can we get a sense of how many shares are typically issued over the course of the year for compensation? Sure absolutely.
And I would just say in a broader sense we're now in passing our sixth consecutive quarter of share repurchase.
When we were talking with you I guess about 18 months ago we committed to meaningful share repurchase and we're following through on that.
And our view is that as we go forward our uses of cash would very much remain continuing to invest in our business although that's usually not lumpy because we've been doing it on a pretty consistent basis our dividend and growing our dividend year-by-year as we grow our earnings on some basis maybe not fully aligned with that but certainly in the ballpark acquisitions and then share repurchase.
And so Mike do you want to take the specific question about the actual share count? Yes Dan.
I'd be happy to do that.
But I think it probably is good to put into context what you were describing which is really what's the aggregate level of shares outstanding that we had with regard to our stock options and the restricted stock unit so essentially what was the overhang.
And if you go back on -- and look at as recently as the end of '09.
When you combine those 2 the overhang that we were dealing with or looking at was 69 million shares that would we think eventually come into the market and we would deal with that.
And if you look at it at the end of the third quarter which is more specific to your question the number is 31 million shares.
So over the course of the last few years we've really been absorbing and catching up with this overhang.
So when we look at it not only for this year -- and I'll give you a little bit of a projection on it but going forward we really feel that in aggregate we have to make up -- we're looking at about 15 million of shares issuance this year for the restricted stock.
But predominantly a stock option exercise dealing with for many years we had very limited exercise of stock options.
But now it's fairly high.
And we think that for this year it will be about 10 million.
So specifically answering.
Your question the 14 million or 15 million shares that we're going to be dealing with this year.
About 10 million of it is just with regard to stock options that are being exercised and the rest is just restricted stock so really not a large number.
And then we think after this year and like I said a little bit of projection but we think after this year the heavy overhang is behind us and the uses or requirements for restricted stock and option exercise will decline significantly.
So now just completing what Dan was saying we think we're through the most of the catch-up.
And if we continue meaningful share repurchase which is our intent we'll flatten out the share count and perhaps even turn it downward.
And we'll go next to Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First one for Mike just to isolate the one-time items in 4Q.
So the Trident -- if I could just get those numbers again the Trident benefit in 4Q the new run rate interest expense and the impact of redeeming the debt because my sense is that will all flow through adjusted correct? That's correct.
Mike? Okay.
Dealing with interest expense the run rate I think for the last couple of quarters is about $40 million.
We did just issue debt.
The average cost of that debt though is 3.3%.
And so the calculation when you look at it on a quarter-to-quarter basis won't be much of an increase.
With regard to the extinguishment of the debt it's already occurred.
We know it's $24 million.
That's $0.03.
The third part of your question I think dealt with investment income predominantly the carried interest with regard to Trident III and we do not do the calculations.
That calculation is done by the private equity firm that manages and oversees Trident III.
It's a fairly complex calculation that they have to go through every one of the investments that they have because it has to do with regard to the partner interest and what part of that partner interest no longer can be clawed back.
And so I do have some sympathy for them when they're going through the calculation and giving us that information trying to give it to us on a timely fashion.
That's why we say it's very difficult to forecast because it has to do with the harvesting of their profits and how it impacts the specific part of the carried interest that could not be clawed back.
So that's a long way of saying we don't know for sure but we would put it in the $10 million range for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Thanks Mike.
And then my separate broader question is on the opportunity for Risk and Insurance Services margin expansion.
That spread between organic revenue growth and underlying expense growth seems to be widening over the past 8 quarters and perhaps you can just give us a bit more perspective on what you're doing on the expense front to keep that low.
Sure sure.
And so let's just start by saying that if you look at our expenses in total our comp and benefit expenses have actually been rising over the last several years.
And it's not just salary inflation which runs about 30% a year for the people who are still at the company but it's also pension expense as we've mentioned before and some other areas of benefits.
And so the comp and ben line has been rising.
So the real story is the great job that we've been doing on all other expenses.
And so from that standpoint it's everything from premises to T&amp;E to meetings and there's literally about 30 categories of expense that we've been pretty focused on and relentless to make sure that everything is on a need-to-have basis as opposed to a nice-to-have basis.
And so a big part of the story frankly over the last 4 years that you have seen in the RIS segment and that which you have begun to see in the Consulting segment is the ability during a year to do things which will benefit you in future years and so -- and to wear that within your P&amp;L.
And so what you're seeing here is not a 1-year story.
It's basically a couple of years that roll forward as a benefit and in with the things that we're doing with respect to comp and ben.
Now let me just say our expectation is for some pretty reasonable growth in margin in the coming couple of years.
The way we look at it though we actually put margin third on our hit parade.
We look at growth in revenues first both organic and through acquisition then we look at earnings.
And our focus really is driving earnings and in particular EPS.
And we've said you stick with us over a 10-year period we'll give you a CAGR of EPS of 13% or so.
We've been delivering on that basis.
We're not saying it's every year or every quarter but we certainly think we will do it over the long term.
And the last point is margin and we seek margin expansion and we'll always have margin expansion if we continue to have expense growth less than revenue growth.
Now to be sure as the margin gets higher and higher in either segment the ability to deliver margin expansion of significant levels reduces because the air that you would need between expense growth and revenue growth gets wider and wider as the margin goes up.
And it would be bad leadership and management if we look at those businesses and said "Now that the margin is terrific we want more air.
So we want you to be investing less in day-to-day in those businesses." And so we're very open.
We don't see it in front of us now but certainly over the years we would expect that if these margins keep improving that at some point in time we won't be as focused on double-digit operating income growth.
We would remain very focused on double-digit EPS growth but it would shift slightly.
But we don't see that in front of us today.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So essentially you're saying next couple of years pretty clear go wide path to continued margin improvement and EPS growth and -- I'm sorry earnings growth in the RIS segment? Correct.
And we'll go next to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One just back on the exchanges just quickly of the new clients that you've got I guess 56 I'm just curious how many of those were actually existing benefits administration clients for Mercer? So what's the actual new business that you're actually getting versus just putting somebody in the exchange? Okay and so here's one thing Brian.
As you recall if you go back a quarter or 2 we were saying that any time you're in a business where it has some real innovation going forward the focus is on existing clients explaining to current clients what the alternatives are.
And so I'll hand over to Julio to give you the details.
But certainly our belief was very much that this was going to be in the first iterations existing clients as opposed to new clients.
But Julio? Right.
Thanks Dan.
Of H&amp;B clients of the 34 clients in the active space one of them is actually new to Mercer.
And again this was expected.
As Dan mentioned we expected to have a lot of discussions with our clients as we were trying to design responses to different changes that were happening in the marketplace under ACA and others.
We have a really solid pipeline though I want to say again for both mid-year enrollments and also 2015.
And I also want to make sure it's very clear that on our existing clients we still see opportunity for expanding because we have a great breadth of additional ancillary and voluntary products that we traditionally have not worked with clients on.
So that gives us a potential for opportunity on the upside.
And of course in most cases we are brokering additional lines of coverage as we expand these relationships and adding new services such as a full plan administration that we may or may not have had in the past.
And also we get the opportunity as I said for ancillary products which tend to have higher commission in core medical.
So there are a lot of opportunity even with our current clients to expand our relationship with them and broaden it even further.
Research Division</strong> So there is going to be a revenue pickup from putting existing clients in exchanges because of the other services plus it's just a different revenue model? Is that correct? Yes I mean we expect it.
Time will tell because we're just launching now right? So 2014 clients are launching as we speak.
They're obviously coming in and looking at what we have to offer and time will tell in the near future as to how the revenue -- average revenue per client actually behaves.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one quick one on the reinsurance if I may.
Wonder if you could chat a little bit about the supply of kind of alternative capital right now coming in for one more renewals? And is there still reasonable amount of demand from pension funds and stuff to actually invest in this business and then what impact do you think it has on 1 1? Alex? Clearly it's the big subject in the reinsurance world and we also made around $45 billion and growing of interest looking to be deployed because not that much is -- that amount is deployed.
I think the insurance companies are taking a balanced look.
They're going to use traditional reinsurance.
They're going to use this new capital.
The effect on us clearly it's a bit of a headwind.
But on the other hand we're seeing that because of the way we have our revenues either from just a fee structure or capped commission the effect is being mitigated somewhat.
And we're actually doing a lot of cap -- new cap business so we're doing -- I think our revenues are probably double what they were last year year-to-date.
So it's providing a lot of options to our clients and where there are options there's need for advice and that's what we're doing.
We're making sure we understand the appetite of the suppliers of capital and the appetite or demand of those who need it and try to match that.
So we're kind of excited about this so we recognize that it just makes life more interesting.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
How much of your business right now is fees or cap commissions so you're not going to see the impact? Well I would rather not give you that indication right now...
It's actually a relatively small fee.
It's a relatively small amount given...
Yes it's a relatively small fee.
And we'll go next to Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I had a question on the exchange.
I'm trying to understand I think if someone moves to an exchange I'm guessing part of the reason they do that is to kind of divorce themselves from rising health care costs.
Can you talk about why a company would move to an exchange to self-insured? Is it really from a -- just to outsource the management of the benefits or is there another aspect to that decision that I'm missing? Julio you want to take that question? Yes there are several reasons why companies considers exchanges.
Certainly to give their employees the opportunity to have a wider range of choice as to how they design their specific benefits in relation to their needs and that's a big impetus.
Second impetus of course is yes clients are looking for the opportunity to understand how they might be able to structure programs for better cost control as time goes on and time goes into the future.
Now that's usually as a result of moving from a defined benefit type of a health offer to defined contribution.
But we actually saw many of our clients convert at least for this time period and stay under the defined benefit piece which means that they would continue to be potentially vulnerable to increases in medical inflation.
But over time I'm sure they'll make decisions as to how best to be able to do that might move to a defined contribution.
Thirdly yes there are a lot of requirements under the new ACA for administration and considerable cost associated with that.
And they want to make sure that they can put themselves in a position where they can rely on someone who already has the experience to do that and hopefully more efficiently and more effectively for them and their employees.
And then there are several other reasons as well as each individual circumstance is evaluated and we design programs to address those needs.
Yes one of the benefits in bending the cost curve is not about necessarily clients moving from defined benefit to defined contribution but it's using the services of Mercer to bend the cost curve through wellness programs and comparison shopping between different medical providers and so it's a very broad subject.
I would just remind everyone that the health benefit is one of the core benefits that people look at when they're deciding which company to give their services and time to and so companies will have to be relatively cautious because there is a war for talent out there and it would take a very brave company and perhaps even to go very quickly to say "We want to get out of health care.
Because if your competitors don't then you may be opening yourself up to some talent vulnerability.
Research Division</strong> And I guess I mean on that point I mean how do you weigh the decision Dan to move or not move to an exchange with your employee base? And I'm guessing you -- to the extent you did you probably already know which exchange you would go with.
I pretty much have that one down and Julio is sitting right next to me on my right.
So I mean for us is that -- when we first looked at Mercer Marketplace the first thing that we said was we want in because it created greater flexibility to individual colleagues to make choices which are relevant to them and their family sizes and a whole slew of other things and so to me it was very flexible.
What we didn't want to do was crowd-out existing Mercer clients and put ourselves in front of the queue so to speak.
And so just to be clear the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies will be joining Mercer Marketplace at the point in time the Mercer Marketplace says we'll make the catch without impacting any other clients.
We'll go next to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is on the Consulting business do you see a natural limit to the margins you've given? That business has gone up because clearly you need to be investing in the business as you do.
So is there a natural limit to the margin ceiling if you will? And then secondly just to make sure I got the numbers when you talked about the number of lives in Mercer Marketplace I think you said 220 000.
Is that in both the active and retiree exchanges? Okay so let me take the first question first.
The 220 000 lives are both in the active and the retiree space and count both existing employees and their families.
That takes care of that one.
In terms of the Consulting segment's margin overall I would say there's no natural cap to those businesses but recognize that the Consulting segment is different than RIS.
It has lower levels of aggregated recurring revenue streams and so it's more about the mechanics of the business in terms of how the P&amp;L is arrived at.
And so naturally there's higher levels of acquisition cost because you always have to find the next project the next account in some parts of the business.
Now both Julio and John are working to find ways of making the business stickier with clients and more recurring.
But I would doubt that it would ever be at the levels of RIS where in insurance people just say "Hey I'd buy an insurance policy year-after-year and it's not as cyclical and I don't really care about what economic conditions are.
I might change my deductible or terms and conditions but I'm buying that policy." It's different on the Consulting side.
So while there's no natural cap I think the idea that there's 2 elements to it: one the P&amp;L construction is less recurring revenue; and two on the people side the Consulting segment in general has some of our most highly-educated world-renowned experts and you pay for those experts.
And so from that standpoint there's a bit of a constraint just on the comp and ben side.
So we'll take our final question from Charles Sebaski with BMO Capital Markets.
Have a final wrap up here on the healthcare exchange and margin accretion.
I guess Julio when you talked about the breakdown of sort of the 25% that are still using a self-insured model within the exchange within the Mercer Marketplace if I was to think of a current Mercer benefit client that's a self-insured client a larger corporate America client and was going to transition to a Mercer Marketplace exchange on a -- continue on a self-insured basis is there any margin change in that client? Outside of ancillary I understand all that different but just on the core service is there a margin difference? Julio? It's difficult to discount the impact ancillary and voluntary products will have on that margin and relationship we have with our client.
So if you were to take an apples-to-apples client situation it usually ends up when they go on the actual marketplace there's a potential even under self-insured for that margin to hopefully improve to be quite honest with you.
Because over time they will continue to sell like I said via voluntary and ancillary.
We made a conscious decision when we went in unlike potentially others that we wanted to have that as a very important platform a part of the platform.
And so it's difficult to distinguish it when we made it as part of our major strategy and part -- a strong part of the platform and value proposition for all of our clients that come onto Mercer Marketplace.
Okay.
I think I understand.
The other question I have quickly is on the brokerage side of the business on the risk side and the Marsh Agency business.
I guess when I look at the revenue base and I know recently you said at a presentation that Marsh Agency's got about $450 million of revenue.
I guess I would have thought the risk business would have had more growth? And so I guess my question would be is on the traditional Marsh client pre-agency what is the retention both on number of clients and fee basis been on that piece of the business? Sure.
Let me just start by speaking broadly and then I'll hand it over to Peter.
First of all the RIS segment we're very happy with the level of growth and the consistency over many quarters.
We've grown organically 14 quarters in a row within RIS.
And when we look at the overall Marsh business in total there's been a good mixture of high levels of revenue retention as well as new business.
So we look at that business and we're pretty comfortable.
As Peter was mentioning earlier and we have an ethos in this shop of not calling out individual small items and trying to make everything an exception we wear our results.
But to give Peter a little bit of a pat what he was alluding to earlier was that there was a little bit of timing in the U.S.
and Canada.
And there was one particular program within the agency which is nonrecurring which used to be a pretty big program and a government agency decided not to buy it.
And so that has had an impact in a quarter where we don't expect to be a recurring impact and -- but I'll hand over to Peter and see if he wants to elaborate at all.
Thanks Dan.
That's very thorough and what I would add is that I want to emphasize again that the fundamentals of the core business are strong.
New business is strong.
Client retention is very strong and so overall the performance looking at it in 1 quarter you can draw conclusions.
But I try to take a look at it over a longer period of time and I'm very confident that we're going to perform very well.
And just a reminder that the 6 different businesses that we report in that segment so it's U.S./Canada Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency we have an MGA we have a STARS which is our RMS platform technology business we have programs we have private clients.
So when you take that all in the mix they don't all move in the same direction in a particular quarter.
So again Dan had highlighted some of the anomalies.
There are a few more but overall I can assure you that the fundamentals are quite strong.
Yes I mean I wasn't talking about this quarter and I probably should have said that per se.
It's just sort of if I look at Marsh ex-Guy Carpenter ex-fiduciary look at Marsh revenue I've got about $5.5 billion for 2013 and just over $5.2 billion in 2011.
And I look over that time period and go okay we've got $400 million of agency revenue build-up and go I would have thought that $5.2 million plus $400 million plus some organic growth from the traditional business would have had overall Marsh level just higher just on a theoretical basis not like this quarter and anything like that.
That's fair enough and I just want to draw it to a close.
But I would as a reminder just go back into the notes and have a look at the consumer business which we pulled out of Marsh the couple hundred million dollars and now it's counted within Mercer.
And so in those numbers that you were citing you would have to restate it for that consumer business.
Okay.
So thanks Charles and thank you everybody.
I'm very happy everybody was able to join us on the call this morning.
I would also like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in delivering such fine results.
So have a good day everybody.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
First quarter 2014 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They’re available on the company’s website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risk and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company’s most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I’ll now turn the call over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our first quarter results reported earlier today.
I’m Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
I’d also like to welcome our operating companies’ CEOs – Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Julio Portalatin of Mercer and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman Group.
Also with us this morning is Keith Walsh Head of Investor Relations.
I am pleased with our first quarter results.
We’ve had a strong start to the year and are continuing the earnings momentum we’ve achieved over the past several years.
In the quarter we produced several underlying revenue growth substantial margin improvement and double digit growth in earnings while returning capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
This performance was very much in line with the themes we laid out in March at our Investor Day which I would like to spend a few moments reinforcing.
First MMC is a unique company with several competitive advantages including the quality of our colleagues deep client relationships a vast global footprint depth of intellectual capital and capabilities and a cohesive collaborative culture.
We are strong strategically operationally and financially.
And we are getting stronger.
Our strategy is to focus on growing revenue earnings margins and cash flow with low capital requirements and to manage risk intelligently.
We are committed to long term EPS growth of 13% increasing cash flows reducing our share count each year and delivering double digit dividend increases.
With this level of growth combined with lower polls on our cash for pension and restructuring we anticipate generating substantially higher levels of cash flow with dividends share repurchase and acquisitions.
In 2013 we allocated $1.2 billion to these three items.
In 2014 we expect capital available for dividends share repurchase and acquisitions to grow 75% to $2.1 billion.
Now let me give you a little more color on our first quarter results.
MMC’s underlying revenue growth was 4%.
This exceeded the increase in underlying operating expenses as it has for all but one quarter over the past six years.
Our consolidated adjusted margin rose 120 basis points to 20.9% our highest quarterly margin since 2004.
Even as we produce exceptional financial results we continue to make ongoing investments.
Our level of capital expenditures reflects this approach and is part of our balanced capital allocation strategy to drive sustainable growth to revenue earnings and cash flow.
Looking at our Risk and Insurance Services segment revenue was $1.8 billion with underlying revenue growth of 3%.
Adjusted operating income increased 6% to $500 million and the margin rose 60 basis points to 27.2% the highest in a decade.
This margin expansion is notable when you consider that it is on top of a 210 basis point expansion in the first quarter of last year.
At Marsh revenue was $1.5 billion an underlying revenue increase of 4%.
This growth reflects solid renewals with strong client retention in all major areas and strong new business growth in Asia Pacific and in the Middle East.
All major geographic regions contributed to the solid revenue performance in the quarter.
In the US-Canada division underlying growth was 2%.
The international division expanded 4% as underlying revenue growth continued throughout Marsh’s vast footprint.
Latin America with growth of 11% reported its sixth consecutive quarter of double digit growth.
Asia Pacific also continued to generate strong growth rising 9%.
Guy Carpenter’s revenue was flat on an underlying basis in line with our expectations.
Revenue growth in international operations marine and facultative was offset by higher levels of capacity increased retentions by clients and significant rate reductions in many lines [ph].
In the consulting segment revenue was $1.4 billion up 5% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income was $225 million an increase of 19% from the prior year.
And the segment’s margin increased 190 basis points to 15.8% the highest first quarter margin in at least 20 years.
Mercer’s revenue was $1.1 billion an underlying increase of 3%.
The revenue increase was spread across all geographic regions with particular strength from growth markets.
Growth was driven by investments which increased 8%.
Retirement growth of 4% reflects strong levels of benefit administration work unique to this quarter.
Oliver Wyman’s revenue in the first quarter was $371 million reflecting strong underlying growth of 11%.
The results reflect significant growth in the financial services business and strong growth in Europe and North America.
In summary we are well positioned to deliver on the long term goals we discussed at Investor Day which should lead to superior returns for our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Well thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
MMC had a strong first quarter.
Revenue was $3.3 billion an increase of 4% on both GAAP and in underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income grew 11% to $682 million the highest level of quarterly profitability in a decade.
The consolidated adjusted margin rose 120 basis points to 20.9% and adjusted EPS increased 11% to $0.81 from $0.73 last year.
Investment income was $13 million in the first quarter compared with $21 million in the prior year.
We anticipate minimal investment income in the second quarter.
Foreign exchange was a slight negative in the quarter impacting both segments.
Corporate expense decreased to $43 million on adjusted basis.
Our quarterly run rate should average about $45 million.
With our strong first quarter results we remain on target to deliver excellent EPS growth in 2014.
We would like to share with you some insight into MMC’s quarterly earnings growth this year.
For example consistent with our view expressed during the last earnings call we expect foreign exchange to be a drag throughout the remainder of the year with the greatest impact approximately $0.02 in the second quarter occurring within the RIS segment.
In the second quarter we expect investment income to be approximately $0.03 lower on a year-over-year basis.
And in keeping with our 2014 business plan we expect higher expense growth in the second quarter for the RIS segment.
Looking forward our business plan and current outlook calls for stronger earnings growth in the second half of the year well beyond what we reported this quarter.
Thus we expect our performance for the entire year to be consistent with what we indicated at Investor Day in March.
So we are pleased with our first quarter results and are confident of a successful operating and financial performance this year.
Debt.
Even with a higher level of debt interest expense in the first quarter decreased to $42 million from $44 million of the first quarter of last year.
By refinancing at attractive interest rates the average cost of our debt has declined 50 basis points to 5.1%.
As we approach the July debt maturity of $320 million we will crystallize our thinking as it relates to the amount timing and maturity of the refinancing.
We also increased MMC’s financial flexibility on the quarter by amending our revolving credit facility which increased the size from $1 billion to $1.2 billion extended the maturity from 2016 to 2019 and reduced both the drawn and undrawn pricing.
Finally we are pleased that earlier this week Moody’s upgraded MMC’s senior debt reflecting our strong financial position.
At the end of the quarter we had $1.38 billion of cash with approximately $260 million in the United States.
Cash utilized in the first quarter included outlays for our annual variable compensation programs $360 million for acquisitions $138 million for dividends and $100 million to repurchase $2 million shares of our stock.
This marks the eighth consecutive quarter of share buybacks.
Finally to reiterate what we stated at Investor Day we plan to grow both organically and quality acquisitions.
We will consistently return excess capital to shareholders both through meaningful share repurchases and double digit growth in dividends and we are committed to reducing our share count year after year.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we’re ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
(Operator instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Could you talk a bit about kind of what happened more specifically at Oliver Wyman and whether or not that was an exaggerated curve of growth or if some of the items that you talked about in your prepared comments should lead to sort of outsize growth relative to every other quarter since this one for the remainder of the year? Okay a couple of things and then I’ll hand over to Scott.
I mean first I think you’re seeing some of the impact of an improving economy and improved business confidence.
But also the year-over-year comparison is a fairly easy one for OW.
I’m giving a wink to Scott right now but it’s a fairly easy one for OW because it was a short quarter in the first quarter of last year.
But Scott you want to give us some more flavor? Sure.
Mike we had a good first quarter and it was driven by pretty broad base strength in the business a big performance from our financial services business which is our largest business but also strength across most the other business including our – the Lippincott the branding firm our manufacturing transportation energy retail services businesses.
And that’s picking up on the continued modest strength in the US economy.
I think there’s been surprising strength in the European economy a little more than we would have expected six months ago.
Still modest but surprisingly stronger.
International remains mixed driven by different things around the world.
But overall the business feels strong.
The only caveat I’d make is the one that Dan made.
We’ve had four quarters of improving performance and that means our comps were pretty easy this quarter.
But I expect continued strong growth through the rest of the year but the comps will get harder.
Right.
Yes I mean this was usually even higher than ‘08 one Q so I think it was the highest first quarter you guys have experienced at Oliver Wyman so – I mean I get obviously you got to be down drafting one Q last year but even on a run rate basis I mean it seems like this is a pretty good top line quarter there.
Okay.
So I guess the next question; in reinsurance did you have any negative impact from softer reinsurance pricing and can you talk about any capital markets activity that you saw there? We’ve certainly seen some impact – negative impact from reinsurance pricing.
Alex do you want to go deeper? Yes sure.
So we talked about the headwinds we would face at Investor Day.
The good news is actually our new business was very very strong in most regions and very health in the US due to our segmentation execution where we should also discuss at Investor Day.
This filled the void left by reduced demands for our transactional products that we’ve successfully marketed in the first quarters of the last two years.
So we’re replacing one-time transactions with recurring business for new clients.
And that’s also reduced the dependency on the large clients that are – that tend to have stronger balance sheets now and are probably buying in some cases less reinsurance.
And it’s fair enough [ph] in other cases more reinsurance because the cost of capital is interesting.
As regards to capital market transactions we actually just closed a good one yesterday which I’m happy about.
But it’s a lumpy business and so the first quarter didn’t see much of that [ph].
Got it.
So is that capital market activity able to offset some of the margin pressure that you might see from a lower reinsurance pricing? We’ll take it off.
I think what you’re seeing would be multiple things.
You’ve got higher levels of capacity you have insurance companies some of the large ones retaining more risk.
You have increasing alternative capacity and that creates a bit of a competitive activity on how some of the traditional reinsurers are trying to maintain their book in the face of income and capacity.
But there’s an awful lot of factors that are at play.
And so our feeling about Guy Carpenter was as we said last quarter we anticipated a pretty tough year.
Guy Carpenter has been our fastest grower over the last several years really in that 5% to 6% organic range.
And this year we’re expecting to see some growth.
But it’s modest growth and so it’s not a year that we would drive for margin expansion within Guy Carpenter.
It’s one of our finest businesses it’s a true jewel and this is a year that we’re going to focus on serving clients and getting new ones.
I would just make the comment because sometimes brokers miss stating that lower pricing and broader terms and conditions are good for our clients.
And we are in the client business and so from fundamentally many of our clients will look to obtain other products that they may not have had before because of the lower pricing and broader terms and conditions.
So next question please.
And we’ll take our next question from Larry Greenberg with Janney Capital.
Good morning.
It’s a hard exercise from our position but it looked to me like the contribution to revenues in RIS from acquisitions was a little bit lower than I would have expected.
I mean is there anything you could comment on there or perhaps any visibility you could give us going forward based on the number of deals that you’ve already done? Yes there’s a couple of things and then I’ll hand over to Mike who will summarize sort of our acquisition strategy.
But I think what you’re seeing is some element of our string of pearls strategy.
Marsh’s base and RIS’s base is quite significant.
It’s a $6.5 billion segment and so you have to do a lot of pearls in order to see some real shift in movement on the top line.
Mike you want to add to that? Yes Dan you’re absolutely correct.
I think what we saw in 2012 was a lot of increased activity in MMA because of the changes in the tax law.
And so as we look at the acquisition impact in the Risk and Insurance Services area over the course of 2013 you felt that.
Conversely because so much was done at the end of 2012 it was fairly limited over the course of 2013.
What we did and what I indicated in the first quarter of this year is that we had six acquisitions the largest of which is Barney &amp; Barney which is part of our MMA long term strategic plan.
Barney &amp; Barney essentially closed for us in mid quarter so you wouldn’t feel the full impact of that.
So when you put all of that together Larry with what Dan says just the size of insurance services operations that’s why you end up with the impact that you have in the quarter.
Peter do you have something to add? Yes Dan I think in addition to Mike saying that Barney &amp; Barney closed mid first quarter the first quarter in terms of revenue is they’re small.
And so you’ll start to see more even distribution in the second third and fourth.
Okay perfect.
Any other questions Larry? I’m okay with that.
No I guess just in general Dan we’re seeing a little bit of shift in the firm in this – on the primary side of commercial lines.
Are you seeing anything surprising or unusual at this point? I’ll address it a little bit and then if Peter has anything to add but I think first of all in my 30-year career most markets will have downward pressure and upward pressure on terms and conditions.
I mean that is sort of the pain of the insurance marketplace.
And so we have these little periodic short periods of firmness which give away very quickly.
And so we’ve built our business really to operate in a shoulder environment and generally a softer environment.
I mean there’s a lot of insurance and companies out there competing for business.
So having said that I’d also look at differences between the United States and international.
Internationally it’s been relatively soft forever.
And so we’re still seeing softness.
That hasn’t changed.
And even in areas where there’s catastrophe exposure.
There was a firmness in pricing over the last couple of years and that’s beginning to come off.
And so we’re seeing that internationally.
In the US the US is probably the best market from a ratings point – from an insurance company’s perspective.
But still it’s not quite as – it doesn’t – the upward trajectory doesn’t feel that it’s stable.
So Peter do you have something to bring in? I agree Dan.
What we have seen is modest decreases if you look at quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year.
They’ve been low single digits driven more by property as Dan said where they – peak exposures or companies are deploying cap.
They did enjoy some rate increases over the last couple of years and so those are coming off.
But where we are seeing that offset a little bit is that Scott mentioned the economies are starting to recover.
So – and the US is an example in the low single digits we started to see total insured values increase payroll modestly increase as well as sales.
So we’re seeing that offset the slight decreases in pricing.
Okay.
Thanks Larry.
Next question operator.
And we’ll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Yes thanks.
Could you maybe help us frame what the impact of FX headwinds was in the quarter? Sure.
Mike? Yes.
When we were looking at it going into the year we were modeling it out where foreign exchange would have been at the end of January and how that would feel for the entire year.
And as we indicated it was in the neighborhood of $0.04 to $0.05 with a fairly minimal impact in the first quarter.
Most of the impact in the second quarter in RIS segment and then the rest of it probably equally split between the third and fourth quarter.
That certainly was between $0.00 and $0.01 in the first quarter.
Okay thank you.
And I guess another numbers question.
The intangible amortization expense increase was fairly modest but thinking about the acquisitions that you just mentioned a few minutes ago will that be moving higher in a meaningful way this year? Mike? No.
It’s something that we’ve seen over the course of the last four years building up gradually bit by bit.
And as we continue to pace which has been a fairly consistent pace notwithstanding what I just said in the answer to the prior question and so some of the prior intangible amortization from earlier acquisitions start to roll off as we add in new.
So we would expect it to go up but only go up modestly.
All right thank you.
Okay.
And we’ll go next to Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I have the same question on the margin side.
First on the RIS segments the margins have improved quite a bit the last few years.
And you mentioned that the increased spending level like in the second half of this year.
So does that imply the pace of the margin improvement was slowing down from the last two years? Okay.
So a couple of things.
You’re correct in noting that the company overall in RIS in particular have had a terrific run of margins over the last several years.
When you think about the overall company with a margin of 20.9% and RIS at 27.2% and consulting at 15.8% both for RIS and consulting these are the highest margins in 10 years and 20 years or more respectively.
So we have been able to drive margins.
As I’ve mentioned in the past our focus as a leadership team is first growing revenue and earnings.
And margin expansion is an outcome of our philosophy in almost all quarters growing revenues at a pace which is greater than growing expenses and so saying all that.
Now in terms of the second quarter we really didn’t say anything about the second half of the year or the next couple of quarters.
We basically said in the second quarter there would be a blip in RIS expenses and it’s for the reasons that Mike mentioned.
I mean there’s a blip in RIS expansions expenses.
There’s a bit of a headwind in terms of foreign exchange within RIS as well.
And when you look at it overall we’re still very comfortable that we have the ability over time to grow margins in both segments.
Our overall feelings about RIS is that they’ve had a few years head start on our consulting segment.
And so from that standpoint we think that the pace of margin expansion in RIS in the mid and – or in the year and mid-term will be slower than the pace that we see in consulting.
But having said that in the long term both segments have significant expansion opportunities.
Mike you have anything to add? Yes.
Let me just kind of go back and restate some recent history and put it into context.
As far back as ‘07 I think the margins in Risk and Insurance Services were below 9%.
I think they were around 8.6% 8.9%.
And as you saw a tremendous improvement in the senior management leadership you saw those margins improve up through 2010 to 19.3%.
And then in 2011 they improved but only to 19.4% So the question was asked then is all the margin improvement behind us is that it do you have to essentially grind it out? And I think Brian Duperreault and Dan said at the time no we have a lot of room for further expansion.
And you obviously saw that margin go from 19.4% to 20.6% to 22.1%.
And just to reiterate and be very clear of what we’re saying we’re looking for margin improvement in for Risk and Insurance Services this year and beyond but we just wanted to share with you the sequencing of the quarters because it’s been built into our business plan and we wanted to be very clear that you would see probably more growth in fact EPS significantly more growth in the second half of the year but wanted to make you aware of the nuances of the second quarter.
They were thorough answers.
And then on the buybacks $100 million buyback in the first quarter seems a bit low consider the run rate for the full year guidance of $700 million-ish.
So is there any particular reason because the cash flow in the first quarter or the stock price getting softer? Okay thanks for the question.
Mike? Yes.
And very insightful question because it does have to do with the seasonality of our cash flows.
And our cash rebuilds up through the second half of the year and peaks at the end of the year and then in anticipation of the variable compensation programs and payouts that occur at the end of February and early March.
So you can see that our cash position went down fairly dramatically from where it had been at the end of the year through the end of the first quarter.
But that notwithstanding we’re very committed to share repurchased and in the first quarter of last year we did $100 million and we felt that it was appropriate to do $100 million in the first quarter this year even when it was the heaviest quarter of cash utilization.
Now with all of that said and you’re absolutely right we will expect to pick up the pace of that for the remainder of the year.
Thank you so much.
All right.
Next question operator.
And we’ll go next to Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Hi good morning.
I was hoping to spend a little bit more time talking about just what you’re seeing in with the economic conditions globally.
I know you did mention some improvement in the US when you were talking about that earlier just as we kind of frame just organic growth expectations within Marsh both in the US and internationally for the balance of the year.
Okay.
So I’ll start and then I’ll hand it over to Scott.
I mean one of our enduring advantages is our global footprint.
So basically where there’s growth anywhere in the world we are on the ground and we will get it.
And so when we look at the – and the world is always a choppy place right? So you’re going to have areas of significant growth and an area of challenge or modest growth in different parts of the world.
When we’re looking at the – it’s kind of interesting when we were all at Davos this year because the US sort of over the last four years has gone from the gold to the era [ph].
And so the US level of growth not only in the US but also expansion opportunities around the world is at a better pace than what we’ve seen in the last few years.
Although to be sure it’s not buoyant out there but it feels a lot better than it did three or four years ago.
But Scott? Thanks Dan.
I don’t have too much to add to my comments before but let me go a little deeper.
I mean we’re seeing across the US modest improvements in the economy and at no greater pace than we saw in the first quarter things to improve and we see this in the Oliver Wyman business.
I see – I think we see this in the rest of the MMC businesses too to an certain extent.
Business confidence is improving again at a modest pace and the businesses we’re involved with seem to be spending more on both continued restructuring and on growth initiatives.
As I said before Europe has been a bit of a surprise.
I mean Europe was at a pretty low point.
They’re coming off faster than people expected.
The economies are recovering a little faster very good performance in the UK and the politics are a little more stable than ever when expected.
All of this is of course in the context of Ukraine and the continued pretty volatile geopolitical environment.
So there are things that could throw us off track but we feel pretty comfortable with the US and Europe.
And outside those markets though we are seeing a lot of volatility.
And in most of the growth markets in Latin America or in Asia – I won’t talk about Russia now but – and beyond that they’re more choppy but there’s more volatility.
But we are seeing a reasonably good trend.
So we’ve remained mildly optimistic and I don’t have too much more to add than that.
Thanks Scott.
Elyse anything – LLC</strong> Okay.
– any other question? LLC</strong> Yes.
I was hoping you could also just provide us a little bit of an update of what you’re seeing with Mercer Marketplace.
I guess when we sit here it’s a little bit ahead of next year’s enrolment season but just kind of a little bit more of a feedback from last year and just some of your expectations as we look forward and you’re speaking to clients better thinking about coming on the exchange for 2015.
Okay.
Perfect.
Julio? Thank you.
Elyse so the question on the Mercer Marketplace; last time we updated numbers on Investor Day.
We had mentioned that there was about 300 lives or so that we had already included in our active and retiree space for Mercer Marketplace.
Our sales profits as you can imagine is very robust; pipeline continues to grow.
It’s good and we continue to have clients going live on the platform throughout the year especially our middle market clients.
Given that we are heavily into the sale cycle for this year we think it’s best to probably update towards the beginning or at the end of our market sale cycles which is at the end of this year and the beginning of 2015.
But you can be assured that the level of dialog and clients – with clients and our prospects and our exchanges is very high.
And I look forward to updating you as the year goes on and towards the beginning of next year.
Well you did mention that you also would like to get some color around some of the things – early information that we’ve been able to also get from the enrolment data that we already established this year.
I mean I want to really reiterate that on Investor Day we talked a little bit about starting to get information out but we’ll be still on early enrolment process.
And on balance we see employees making different choices and buying less life insurance.
Many of them were over insured and they’re kind of life sizing the actual plans to their needs.
And the result of these choices is an average annual medical cost reduction of about $800 per employee that we’re seeing with the employers seeing about $550 of that savings and employees seeing $250.
So as a reminder Mercer Marketplace enables employees to gain control over their medical insurance course while at the same time offering real value to their employees.
And by giving them more choice and control over how they spend healthcare [indiscernible].
So we’ll continue to strive to make sure that there is a differentiated difference for both employees and employers.
Thanks Julio.
Okay operator next question.
And we’ll go next to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Hi.
I have two questions here.
The first one in the consulting side.
The slowdown in the health and benefits growth rate is that something we should expect to continue here going forward or is there something unusual in the first quarter? Okay.
So Julio you want to take that? Thank you.
A lot of things contributed to softer results but let me just first say that our foreign breadth of business offers that we have for our clients globally gave us an ability to be able to maximize the diversification of numbers in our book [ph].
And in this particular case a little bit of a slowdown is helped by other businesses that obviously moves up.
But our – the softer results is really our US consumer business.
As you can recall we announced quite some time ago came over from Marsh we knew that we would face a tough comparison to last year in the first quarter and was anticipated in our plans that we would do so.
Other things like in the US Europe in Asia we have been doing a lot of work to restructure and improve the profitability of our book of administration clients as it relates to H&amp;B.
And in some cases we ended up with a bit of low revenue but with higher margins.
So in the long run we think that that will benefit significantly as we continue to grow both top line and bottom line.
So it isn’t just one thing but a lot of things coming together that result in being a quarter that’s a bit softer than we’ve been running in the past.
Thanks.
Brian your next question? Yes.
The next question I guess more for Peter.
If I take a look at the growth that you’re seeing in the developed countries EMEA and the US business it looks like it’s kind of running in line and maybe blow nominal GDP growth.
I guess my question is for Marsh do we just expect nominal GDP growth as kind of what you guys can grow or is there any kind of urgency out there that kind of get that – get the growth kind of picking up here? Yes I’m not sure about the nominal GDP growth in the US in the first quarter because I saw something in the other day that said it was 0.1.
So I think we’re not going to cover off the ball but Peter do you have some comments? I agree with you.
And Brian the underlying and fundamentals of the US and Canada business as well as Europe are quite strong.
We have very strong client retention strong rollover from prior year meaning that we’re retaining the clients that we’re adding for – from prior year for new business.
We have strong new business – so overall I don’t think the 2% is the world we want to live in and we are aspiring to do 3% or more.
And to think that the underlying fundamentals support that overall longer term basis.
I mean in the US we had a couple of things that hurt us in the quarter with two large programs that are runoff – again not an excuse but just pointing towards that the underlying fundamentals I think are stronger than the 2% and we’re optimistic in the future.
Thanks Peter.
Thanks.
Next question operator.
And we’ll go next to Thomas Mitchell with Miller Tabak.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
This is just a little back of the envelope calculation but we started about $2.20 a share available for various allocations of excess cash in capital in 2013 and that’s going to go about $3.60 a share in 2014.
I guess one question I have related to that is can we expect it to stay at that level or are there reasons why it would fall back? And then secondly on a sustained basis looking out a number of years would you continue to see the cash flow available for different uses continue to grow although probably not at a similar pace? Yes.
It’s a good question.
So basically yes we were looking at 2013 of having cash available for acquisition share repurchase and dividends of about $1.2 billion.
As we noted earlier we expect that number for 2014 to be about $2.1 billion.
And we believe that that kind of level is going to be available to us as we go forward beyond 2014.
We also as we grow the business both organically and inorganically we expect to see mild increases in our cash flow as we go forward.
And so that is our expectation where we are today.
I mean it’s important to know that some of the calls on cash that we had before whether it was pension or restructuring kinds of things don’t exist right now.
And in our planning horizon we’re not expecting them to.
LLC</strong> And that – the other question I have is sort of related but is that availability of cash flow – and Mike might be able to detail this – is that availability something that has to be moved geographically or is it – are the opportunities to make use of it in place or are the amounts easily enough transferred that it doesn’t matter where it comes from? I’ll start to comment and then I’ll hand over to Mike.
In terms of our business right now about 44% of our business is in the United States so we have significant amount of business and profitability outside of the United States.
Having said that our uses of cash include not only share repurchase and dividends but also acquisitions.
And when we look around the world we see opportunities throughout the world in both segments.
And so our – I wouldn’t make the assumption that all the cash that we have around the world has to come back to the United States.
And that’s where good capital management and good cash flow management come in.
And Mike do you want to – You’re absolutely right.
And the one pressure that exists for the company is returning capital to its shareholders.
And with the dividends and share repurchases that we indicated and in fact for this year I think we’ve said at Investor Day that we’re planning about $1.3 billion of capital return to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividend.
That’s obviously all US oriented.
So it does mean that over not just this year but every year and going forward we have to bring international cash back into the US in a tax-efficient manner to return capital to shareholders.
We think we’ve been able to do that very judiciously in the past and we think we can do it judiciously going forward.
LLC</strong> That’s terrific.
Thank you very much.
Cheers.
Next question operator.
And we’ll go next to Arash Soleimani with KBW.
Hi thank you.
Just a couple quick ones here.
I know you’d mentioned [indiscernible] at the Investor Day you had cancelled out some ancillary products to the exchange platform.
So I’m just wondering looking forward what’s the margin potential there to just try and get a sense of how really [ph] that could be.
Okay.
Julio so the question is about ancillary products on Mercer Marketplace.
All right.
Thank you.
As we sit back in Investor Day and in fact when we first started with Mercer Marketplace moving in this – in the direction of having a whole list of solutions for employers and employees we started off with ensuring that we had a very good win-win value proposition for employees and employers.
And we thought one way to be able to do that is to make sure that we gave a very broad breadth of options to employees to choose from.
So as they choose on their core medical programs perhaps options of higher deductibles we wanted to make sure that ancillary products were available.
We wanted to fill some of that gap like with critical illness coverages active [ph] health coverages et cetera.
And so we continued to expand our ancillary product offers to employees to give them options that perhaps others may not offer in terms of their structure.
And we continue to do that.
We announced on Investor Day that about 25% of those that took higher deductibles are actually buying ancillary products.
That continues to be the case.
We continue to see good movement in that direction.
We’ve added in addition to some of the products that I mentioned earlier now Auto and Home that just recently launched and we don’t have any other numbers on that yet but we’ll see how that develops throughout the year and at the beginning of next year.
But it is our strategy to continue to add and to bring strong decision solution tools to aid people in making decisions as to when they should be using ancillary products to subsidize some of the decisions they’re making on core medical.
Okay good.
Thank you.
And just quickly with Oliver Wyman I know you had also mentioned some potential cross all opportunities there.
I’m just wondering if those have come to fruition and to what extent you can benefit from those as well.
Just to make sure that we have the question were you talking about OW cross-OpCo opportunities? Or are you – I’m not sure we heard you clearly.
I was just referring just in general to cross opportunity yes between Oliver Wyman and the other MMC businesses.
Okay.
Okay.
So let me take that because it’s really broader than Oliver Wyman.
We have as you know two segments and four operating companies within those two segments.
And when we look at it there’s opportunities to have significant amounts of activity in support of one OpCo for the other in servicing our clients.
And so it’s not specific op to Oliver Wyman.
Let me give you some examples.
So outside the United States Mercer and Marsh work jointly on employee benefits.
Within the insurance company segment Guy Carpenter and Oliver Wyman communicate regularly with regard to different types of capabilities that they can bring to insurance companies.
Those are just two examples.
We would have a list of a dozen.
I’m always wary though in a company that produces the kind of business and new business that we have this is gravy and this optimization making sure that we don’t leave anything off the table in servicing our clients and giving them innovation and new opportunities.
But when we look at our business not only do we see advantages of being part of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies and advantages in our intellectual capital.
So you’ll see more of that but you won’t see us combining operating companies.
We believe in the strength of our present structure and the ability of each operating company to deliver value to clients and seek advice and solutions from the other operating companies as well.
Okay good.
Thank you.
That was very helpful.
Okay cheers.
Next question please.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I’d like to turn the call back over to you sir for any additional and closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you very much operator.
And I thank everybody for joining us on the call this morning.
I would like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in serving them.
Have a great day.
Bye.
And again that does conclude today’s conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Second quarter 2014 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you the remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thank you Jamie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our second quarter results reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
I'd also like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino Alex Moczarski Julio Portalatin and Scott McDonald.
Also with us this morning is Keith Walsh.
MMC continued to deliver excellent financial results in the second quarter.
We produced strong revenue growth meaningful margin improvement and double-digit growth in operating income.
We also returned capital to shareholders through increased share repurchase and announced a 12% increase in our quarterly dividend.
MMC's revenue growth was 7% with all operating companies contributing.
This level of growth was achieved both organically and through our strategy of executing on quality acquisitions.
Revenue grew 5% on an underlying basis.
This growth exceeded the increase in underlying operating expenses as it has for 15 consecutive quarters driving our consolidated adjusted margin of 60 basis points to 19.8% our highest second quarter in a decade.
Adjusted operating income rose 11%.
This is the fourth straight year that we increased second quarter earnings by double digits.
Looking at our Risk and Insurance Services segment revenue increased 6% to $1.8 billion or 4% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income increased 5% to $454 million.
The second quarter margin declined slightly to 25.4%.
But more importantly during the first half of the year the margin increased 20 basis points to 26.3%.
For the full year Risk and Insurance Services remains on track to produce solid underlying revenue growth and meaningful earnings growth as well as deliver slight margin improvement driven by Marsh.
Marsh's revenue increased 7% to $1.5 billion or 4% on an underlying basis.
All major geographic regions contributed to the strong underlying growth in the quarter.
The International division increased 5% as revenue continued to expand throughout Marsh's vast geographic footprint.
Latin America with superb growth of 16% reported its 7th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
Asia Pacific also continued to generate strong growth rising 9%; EMEA grew 1% in the quarter.
In the U.S./Canada division underlying growth was 3%.
Marsh's revenue growth is driven by strong new business growth in Canada Africa Asia Pacific and Latin America as well as high client retention across the organization.
Marsh continues to identify opportunities to enhance global growth through acquisitions.
Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency added the largest independent insurance agency in North Carolina.
Also in the quarter we closed 2 other acquisitions in Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency and reached an agreement to acquire a majority stake in Marsh's long-standing correspondent broker in Panama.
Guy Carpenter delivered 2% underlying revenue growth in the second quarter despite ongoing rate reductions in many lines.
New business wins and penetration beyond our larger clients drove higher revenue in the quarter.
While the U.S.
Guy Carpenter's largest geography was essentially flat revenue growth was driven by international operations reflecting increases in the U.K.
Treaty Asia Pacific Latin America and Continental Europe.
In the Consulting segment revenue increased 8% to $1.5 billion or 6% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income reached $247 million an increase of 20% from the prior year.
And this segment's margin increased 160 basis points to 16.2% the best in over 20 years.
Mercer's revenue increased 3% to $1.1 billion or 2% on an underlying basis.
This increase was spread across all major regions with particular strength from the U.S.
and Mercer's growth markets.
When viewed by line of business growth was driven by Investments which increased 6%; and by Health up 4%.
In June Mercer announced that it would acquire a 34% stake in South Africa-based Alexander Forbes a leader in the retirement investments and employee benefits space in South Africa and broader sub-Saharan Africa.
The Alexander Forbes initial public offering was completed last week.
This investment is consistent with our strategy of seeking quality businesses with a strong operational and cultural fit that provide geographic expansion opportunities in fast-growing markets.
We have a close relationship with the Alexander Forbes management team.
You might recall we purchased its risk and insurance broking operation 2.5 years ago.
Oliver Wyman's revenue in the second quarter reached a record $449 million reflecting outstanding underlying growth of 17%.
The results reflect substantial growth in Oliver Wyman's largest practice Financial Services and strong growth from consumer and Lippincott.
We are very pleased with Oliver Wyman's first half underlying revenue growth of 14%.
In the second half of the year we expect Oliver Wyman's revenue growth to moderate.
In summary our excellent second quarter and year-to-date results are consistent with our 2014 business plan.
And we remain well positioned to deliver on the long-term goals we committed to at Investor Day: growth in revenue long-term EPS growth of 13% increasing cash flows and return of capital to shareholders through reducing share count and double-digit dividend growth.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the second quarter revenue increased 7% to $3.3 billion or 5% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income grew 11% to $656 million the highest level of second quarter profitability in our history.
The consolidated adjusted margin rose from 19.2% to 19.8%.
GAAP EPS increased 12% to $0.77 and adjusted EPS increased 10% to $0.79.
As we highlighted on last quarter's call we anticipated that this quarter would be impacted by a meaningful reduction in investment income and within the Risk and Insurance Services segment the impact of planned expense growth and the negative effects of foreign exchange.
The adverse FX impact was slightly less than the $0.02 we have projected since several major currencies strengthened against the U.S.
dollar.
In the third quarter we expect foreign exchange to impact Risk and Insurance Services by the same magnitude as this quarter.
Investment income.
We had an investment loss of $2 million this quarter compared with investment income of $23 million in the prior year a reduction of $0.03 per share on a year-over-year basis.
For modeling purposes we'd like you to note that any investment income from Trident III that may occur in the last half of this year will most likely be offset by corporate initiatives.
As you may recall income from Trident III only represents our general partner carried interest.
And the timing of this we do not control.
In the second quarter MMC issued $600 million of 3.5% 10-year senior notes.
This allowed us to fund the July debt maturity of $320 million.
By refinancing at attractive interest rates the average cost of our debt has declined 60 basis points over the past year.
Taxes.
Our effective tax rate was 27.6% in the second quarter.
As you know the tax rate can fluctuate from quarter to quarter reflecting our geographic mix of earnings tax settlements completion of open tax years and the impact of changes in international and/or state tax rates.
For example in the second quarter we completed the federal tax audit with the IRS for the 2012 tax year.
Since we expect our tax rate to be approximately 30% for the remainder of this year the effective tax rate for the full year should be around 29.5%.
Our 34% interest investment in Alexander Forbes will cost $312 million.
This investment will occur in 2 tranches with approximately 15% completed last week and the remaining 19% subject to normal regulatory approvals which should occur during the third quarter.
Consistent with the guidance we offered at Investor Day CapEx for this year is trending at about $400 million with $202 million spent year-to-date.
Approximately 2/3 of this spend relates to technology and systems and about 1/3 is for real estate.
These investments are enhancing growth improving efficiency expanding client and colleague capabilities and reducing real estate cost as we consolidate office locations when leases expire.
We follow a balanced capital management philosophy: reinvestment in each of our businesses for growth and return of capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Cash was $2 billion at the end of the second quarter consisting of $1.66 billion held internationally and $340 million in the United States.
Cash utilized in the second quarter included $138 million for dividends $72 million for 3 acquisitions and $250 million to repurchase 5 million shares of our stock.
This marks the ninth consecutive quarter of share buybacks.
For the first 6 months of this year we have deployed over $1 billion for dividends acquisitions and share repurchase.
As we communicated at Investor Day we plan to grow both organically and through quality acquisitions.
We will consistently return excess capital to shareholders both through double-digit growth in dividends and meaningful share repurchase.
We're committed to reducing our share count year-after-year.
Overall looking at both our financial and operating performance a very strong first half of the year.
Looking forward we expect adjusted EPS growth in the second half of the year to exceed the 10% growth we reported in the first 6 months.
We are on target to deliver strong EPS growth for the full year.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thank you Mike.
Jamie we're ready to begin Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping that we could spend more time talking about what you are seeing at Guy Carpenter.
I mean the growth did stand out in the quarter especially in light of the market commentary that we're hearing in terms of prices down double digits.
If you can comment on what you saw price-wise during the recent June and July renewals.
And also your expectations for the balance of the year if you expect that you can kind of sustain that 2% growth level? Or what we might see in the back half of the year? Okay.
So thank you Elyse.
It's Dan here and I'll just kick off some commentary on the market in general.
I think it's important to know that everyone I have sitting around this table is a seasoned hand in the risk and insurance services space.
And from that perspective we operate over many many years in all kinds of markets.
And usually the risk and insurance services market for one reason or another is usually softer softening and so we're quite used to the idea that the market is competitive and that there's downward pressure on rates.
And so Guy Carpenter has done a good job anticipating the future really starting many quarters ago.
And so Alex do you want to dig in a little deeper? Sure.
Thank you very much.
So yes echoing what Dan has said we've been -- it's now 5.5 years where we haven't gone backwards in any quarter.
So 22 quarters without going backwards which I think is a testament to the strength of the management and the people that we have within the company and our relationships with our clients.
And as we've said in Investor Day we've continued to look at bringing new products new services into our portfolio.
And we've also executed on segmentation which we talked about.
So we're widening our net.
We have many more smaller clients than we had before.
We've invested in people.
We've actually increased our headcount probably around 140 people over the last year or so.
Many of those are what we call strategic hires that relate to bringing in new business.
Others are based on bringing in new services around our strategic advisory.
Others are related to acquisitions that we've made in what we consider to be growth areas like Accident and Health and Agriculture.
And then finally we have been able to bring in some very good people to look after the increased client base that we have because we have many more clients.
So yes rates have been coming down.
But it's interesting because some companies have found that the contingent capital is very interesting.
They're actually changing that strategy around buying reinsurance.
Others are using some of their budget now to buy casualty reinsurance.
So it's not a tale of woe it's just -- it's around execution.
It's around client relationships.
It's around leaning forward.
It's around investing.
And I think we'll be able to show modest growth mild growth for the rest of the year.
Thank you Alex.
So Elyse just to summarize that it's -- it won't be a banner top line year for Guy Carpenter but we do expect to see growth over the entire year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other in terms of RIS just looking at the overall margins you guys did say about modest margin improvement for the full year.
I think you used the word slight in your prepared remarks.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now has that changed from where you were sitting last quarter? I know you guys pointed to some negative impacts from foreign exchange as well as the expense growth in the second quarter.
But when you're looking at the back half of the year has your expectations changed? Or is that kind of similar to where we were sitting a few months ago? It's very similar to where we were a few months ago.
So nothing's really changed on that front.
I mean let me just address RIS margins in general because our view is we will continue to expand margins over time while we invest for future growth.
The level of margin improvement is going to move around and vary a bit based upon where the top line is and the pace of our investments which can be lumpy from time to time.
This year in particular we expect good revenue and good earnings growth in RIS but slight margin expansion for the year.
And I would just add on our foreign exchange modeling.
Obviously the currencies can move dramatically across the dollar.
But from the beginning of the year we essentially gave guidance and then we updated that guidance in the first quarter earnings call.
It really did not change.
And as I just indicated our current modeling despite marked movements in the euro and the pound still indicates that the second and third quarters will feel the most negative impact for RIS.
And in fact every quarter RIS most likely will feel foreign exchange negative impacts.
So our view on the impact of foreign exchange has not changed.
I would also point out that the -- just seasonally the third quarter is the smallest for RIS so foreign exchange may impact it slightly more in the third quarter vis-à-vis the second.
But just to reiterate what Dan said no our view has not changed at all.
And we'll take our next question from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dan if I recall correctly last quarter and the Investor Day you have reiterated that you have more of a focus on profit growth in Risk and Insurance Services than margin expansion.
I just want to see if that's still the case.
That's absolutely right.
I mean when I -- to be frank I don't spend 5 minutes worrying about our margins or our ability to expand margins in the future.
And when I look at our raw absolute margins in RIS even though they were down 20 bps they were up 170 bps in the second quarter of 2013 and they're up 20 bps through the 6 months this year.
And then when I look at just the absolute amount 25.4% through 6 months in my mind is very competitive in the marketplace.
And so it's really about how do we take this terrific business and grow it faster both on the top line and on earnings while maintaining and improving our margins over time.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then on Guy Carpenter unlike one of your major competitors that saw a pullback in organic growth in reinsurance brokerage Guy Carpenter actually accelerated versus the first quarter.
It will be helpful to get some color on that maybe from Alex.
Was that account wins? Was that some other factor that helped drive growth to a better level? Yes we had very good new business.
And that's -- again that's part of 2 things really.
It's the segmentation strategy it's focusing to get the right products to the right type of clients and going into areas where we -- perhaps we had some business but we didn't realize how strong it was and so we've created a segment around it and we've focused people on it.
That's been very effective.
And our retention has been good as far as clients.
We haven't lost -- no I don't -- I could name maybe one that we've lost in the last quarter.
So all in all good retention good new business and selling new product.
And then I think it's important to reiterate Jay what Alex had said earlier as well that even though this is a slow growth environment for Guy Carpenter we believe Guy Carpenter is absolutely one of the jewels in our crown.
And we are continuing to invest.
Guy Carpenter over the last several years it's been our fastest grower they're competitive in the market they've got a great leadership team and in many ways they've become the employer of choice.
And so from our basis we're continuing to grow the top line.
The numbers that -- the headcount the numbers that Alex had referred to earlier in the call when he was talking about more than 100 different hires that represents 6% or so of Guy Carpenter's headcount.
So you can see in the last 12 months we've made a bet on Guy Carpenter and the reissuance business in general.
And we'll take the next question from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one question.
You mentioned revenue growth outpacing expense growth overall.
Can we talk -- drill down maybe a bit into the Risk segment where it looks like maybe that hasn't been the case here.
Recently I know you mentioned some expense initiatives.
We'd love to sort of understand those and just sort of get an idea of what's happening to natural margins excluding these types of initiatives.
And if those are still on pace to deliver the same type of performance that you sort of talked about across the whole book.
Sure.
I mean in the RIS segment when I look over the last really 5 years or even slightly longer virtually in every quarter revenue growth for RIS exceeds expense growth.
That's a discipline of the company.
It's a philosophy of the entire firm and it's how we operate the business.
And so it is not that we intend for that to reverse.
Sure there may be the odd quarter here or there where we get upside down.
But believe me we won't stay upside down.
Now if I look on the expense side for the whole company including RIS we've been operating in a managed expense environment all the way through the financial crisis and its aftermath.
And so if you look at the last 8 quarters our expense growth this quarter at 3% it's actually the highest expense growth we've had in the last 8 quarters.
But certainly 3% is not a worrying trend to us from that standpoint.
And we expect RIS to continue to invest as they see necessary in order to generate future growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then on the Consulting side would it be possible to understand what sort of happened to Mercer margins year-over-year and what happened to Oliver Wyman where -- can we -- should we make the assumption that in each of those subsegments that margins were flat? It's just a larger share of the total pie that Oliver Wyman earned this year? I mean I would look at a couple of things on this basis.
First of all the margins are far from flat in our Consulting segment.
I mean the overall segment was up 160 basis points in the quarter and that's on top of 120 basis points in the second quarter of last year.
The 16.2% margin in the quarter the highest quarter that we've had in our recognition but certainly over the last 20 years.
So there's been tremendous margin expansion in the Consulting segment not only last year but we've got growth-on-growth this year.
And both -- Oliver Wyman we don't break out our margins by operating company because it is a Consulting segment but I can say Oliver Wyman and Mercer have both contributed to the margin expansion within Consulting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly on the tax rate.
It looks like it declined a bit year-over-year.
Maybe some thoughts on that.
And generally like how do you think about taxes relative to your peers? And is that something that you want to address or where that you feel like you're comfortable where you are? Well Mike do you want to take that? Yes I'd be more than happy to.
And Jay you're absolutely correct.
Tax is a fairly complex topic.
With regard to our peers I won't comment too much on that.
Obviously we have peers that we're competing against that have a tax rate higher than we do and we have peers that have a tax rate lower than we do.
So we really do focus on what we can do and how we can manage it.
I would say one thing is different than when we reported it in the second half of last -- in the second quarter of last year.
In the second quarter of last year we had given guidance to the investment community that our tax rate would be about 30% for the entire year.
And over the course of the first 6 months the tax rate was trending slightly lower than that.
And we still said that it should be about 30% for the entire year.
It's different this year.
It's different this year in that we did have some discrete items.
I did mention the larger one which is that we completed the open year of 2012 with regard to our federal return with the IRS.
And so our tax rate for the first half of the year was below the 30%.
But as you could hear in my prepared remarks we don't think we'll give any of that back.
And so we're hopeful that our tax rate over the last 6 months would be 30%.
So our effective tax rate will be 29.5%.
That's the -- for the year.
And that's the lowest that we've seen in many years so we're encouraged by that.
And we'll go next to Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So first question is on buybacks.
It looks like you -- today you said you're going to a capital management plan for this year $2.1 billion including $800 million acquisitions; $600 million for dividends.
About -- that leave about $700 million for buybacks.
You did $400 million so just in the first half.
So I just wonder is that math indicate that in the second half you're going to slow down? And also related to your cash balance in the U.S.
$340 million will that be the limiting factor how much you can -- how quickly you can buy back your shares? Excuse me this is Mike Bischoff.
I just want to get the math correct.
We did $350 million of share repurchase in the first 6 months.
We did $100 million in the first quarter and $250 million in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
My bad.
My math is bad.
Sure.
Research Division</strong> So basically you're looking for about the same pace then in the second half? Well yes.
I mean but -- and the thing is what we outlined on Investor Day in terms of that $2.1 billion and sort of the let's say the hold we had with regard to our expectations around acquisitions leaving $1.3 billion or so available for dividends and share repurchase that's as good a number as any for you to use right now.
I mean it certainly in our expectation won't be less than that amount.
Yes.
Just to add clarity to that so there's no ambiguity.
We are fairly clear on Investor Day.
We were indicating that return of capital to shareholders would be about $1.3 billion.
That would be comprised of dividends and share repurchase.
Tracking through the first 6 months dividends were $275 million and shares as I mentioned were $350 million.
You're absolutely right that Dan in -- at Investor Day indicated that we had kind of allocated in our own thinking about $800 million for acquisitions over the course of the year.
Nice to report that our pipeline has been very robust.
Our acquisitions through the first 6 months were $439 million.
With the investment that you just heard us describe in Alexander Forbes that's another $312 million.
So we're roughly $750 million already against that $800 million that Dan articulated in Investor Day.
So in every category we're not only tracking but feel very good with regard to what we articulated at Investor Day.
And thanks Kai because it really is a good question.
And like we said at Investor Day even if we go over our placeholder of $800 million we don't expect that that would impact the $1.3 billion that we're thinking about in terms of share repurchase and dividend.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then secondly can you give update on the private health exchange and what the pipeline looks like and especially going into the second half probably the peak of the enrollment season? Sure.
Julio do you want to take that? Thanks Dan and thanks Kai for the question.
Last time we updated the numbers at Investor Day.
We said around 300 000 lives or so spread across about 80 clients.
And we have -- that included both the active and the retiree space.
Our sales process continues very aggressively.
Our pipeline is very very strong.
The selling season is at its height.
And we continue to have clients who are choosing the platform and they will sign up as of the first of the year 2015 and then throughout the year as well because as you know we have a lot of middle-market clients that have different enrollment dates.
So it's great to be able to pace that throughout the year.
And as we said in the last call we plan on updating sales activity in lives as we get through the third quarter and early fourth quarter.
And it's going to be I think a very good outcome for us.
The -- I can say the activity has been stronger.
We're very very pleased.
We think it's best to give that update towards the end of the year when the full picture is well known and the sales season is complete.
But I have to tell you the level of dialogue we're having with our clients and prospects around these changes is very high and we're just very pleased with how it's going.
And stay tuned for the announcements I guess later on.
And we'll take our next question from Larry Greenberg with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just to nitpick a little bit more on margins you mentioned FX about the same in 3Q as 2Q.
When we think about expense comparisons in the third and fourth quarters I mean is there any unevenness to those quarters in comparison with the year ago? No I think what Mike was alluding to is particularly in RIS the third quarter is our smallest revenue quarter.
And so expenses some of which are straight line throughout the year tend to look a little bit higher.
We always have our lowest margins in the third quarter and that's been the case for many many years.
And so that -- but there's nothing that is anticipated which is changing the trajectory.
And as Mike mentioned earlier we're expecting a better second half of the year from an earnings growth standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Good.
That's helpful.
And then can you just elaborate a little bit more on the acquisitions that you've made including Alexander Forbes? And just what that brings to you guys either strategically or geographically? Okay.
So I'll take that to start with Larry and then I'll hand off to Peter in the first instance to talk about some of Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency because that's really been a focus for us over the last number of years in terms of acquisition strategy and philosophy.
And then we'll hand over to Julio who will specifically talk about Alexander Forbes and how thrilled we are to be the anchor investor on their recent IPO.
Let me just say just to begin with and reiterating some of the thoughts that we had on Investor Day acquisitions have really been a core part of our strategy and philosophy over many years.
We developed relationships over a long period of time.
And frankly when we do acquisitions more times than not it's both sides thinking hey we'll be better together than we are apart so why don't we get together? I mean our focus is certainly on the 4 pillars that we always outlined to you but also talent quality cultural fit economics.
And we generally prefer companies that are growing faster than we are or trading below our multiple or where we see the business and we believe we can improve the business and improve its margins.
So Peter do you want to talk a little bit about MMA? Sure Dan.
Thanks.
Well MMA is a very consistent story continues to drive organic growth.
We've done 39 acquisitions since 2009 and our annualized revenue is closing in at around $650 million.
We did 3 acquisitions in the second quarter.
Dan mentioned in his opening comments one in North Carolina the largest independent agency Senn Dunn which has a real balanced property and casualty employee benefits portfolio mix.
And it's really becoming a core differentiator for us in the United States.
If I could add one thing before handing it over to Julio is that the Alexander Forbes insurance acquisition has proven to be incredibly valuable for Marsh giving us a footprint in sub-Sahara Africa.
It's been a strong contributor in connecting our multinational clients and so that has been a real differentiation for Marsh.
And it's contributing to organic growth in the EMEA region.
Yes so we've really been quite active in Marsh not only in MMA but also Africa Panama Peru Dominican Republic.
Julio do you want to talk about Alexander Forbes? Thanks Dan and Peter.
For quite some time now we've been articulating a strategy to want to become much more significant in the growth market economies around the world and this is obviously a further step in that direction.
Through this investment we gain great exposure to a great management team great clients and a fantastic footprint in a geography that's going to be growing certainly over the next decade.
And Mercer will have a role on Alexander Forbes Board of Directors.
We will contribute strategic expertise in a global perspective.
We'll be supportive to African clients who want to become global outside of Africa as well as our clients will have the benefit of a great structure inside of South Africa and sub-Sahara Africa when they're expanding into Africa.
We believe that the transaction offers just some real significant value to both the client base of both sides of the transaction and also the employees and opportunities for the future.
We're really pleased with this transaction.
I couldn't be more excited about it and we're looking forward to maximizing it's value as time goes on.
Thanks Julio.
Does that cover it Larry? Research Division</strong> Yes it's helpful.
And we'll go next to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your international cash.
Does your 30% tax rate for the balance of the year include any plans for movement of international cash over to the U.S.
holding company? Mike? Yes very good question.
I think we generally indicated that we have about $1.4 billion of international cash going into the year dedicated on a permanently invested basis.
And you can see with regard to Alexander Forbes that's one way that we plan to utilize international cash.
With regard to the U.S.
yes we do have repatriation strategies.
We look at it over multiple years.
As you know the main driver of need for cash in the U.S.
is for share repurchase and dividends in addition to funding the acquisitions in the U.S.
predominantly MMA.
And then specifically to your question which is does the 30% tax rate guidance for the last 6 months and 29.5% for the entire year include the repatriation of funds that we need from our international operations into the U.S.
for these purposes that I just mentioned? And the answer is yes it does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also just a question on some of the investments that you're making in the business.
Your capital expenditure has been running higher than a lot of your peers and I was wondering if you could just maybe expand a little bit on some of the things that you're doing.
And are these investments targeted towards more operational efficiency growth efforts? Maybe just some color around them would be helpful.
Well if you say operational efficiencies growth and reducing risk you would have had the trifecta.
So well done Dan.
The main drivers are those 3 areas so initiatives to improve growth to drive efficiency and reduce risk.
Mike do you want to add some color to that? Yes I -- once again I won't mention our rate of CapEx compared to competitors because they may have their own needs.
But with regard to us our CapEx spending did increase fairly significantly from the levels of '09 2010 and building up to where it was in 2013 and 2014 tracking at about $400 million.
And like I've said about 2/3 of that is in technology for really IT upgrades.
There's finance transformation.
We have new fiduciary revenue and billing systems not only in the U.S.
but introducing that in the U.K.
We have data centers and client analytics.
And so we really have been spending over the last several years to make MMC even stronger and more efficient with expanded client and colleague capabilities.
The other roughly 30% is as I mentioned reducing our global real estate footprint more efficiency collocations cost savings and also putting in the smart office concepts for our colleagues.
And we'll go next to Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Given the growth at Oliver Wyman has the business become seasonal in terms of revenues? And does that have any impact on exacerbating seasonality in Consulting margins? Yes no it's an interesting question.
I would approach it in a couple of different ways and then I'll hand off to Scott to give a little bit more flavor to it.
First if you look at our overall business between Risk and Insurance Services and Consulting it's reasonably well balanced.
And so from that standpoint you don't see large seasonal shifts as we go throughout the year on the Consulting side.
And as we mentioned earlier on the RIS side you tend to see a seasonal dip in revenue in the third quarter and the other 3 quarters for RIS are reasonably similar to each other.
You also have to bear in mind that when we look at the RIS segment Guy Carpenter is much smaller than Marsh.
And when you look at the Consulting segment Oliver Wyman is much smaller than Mercer.
And so even though Oliver Wyman may be growing much faster for a period of time its impact on the overall numbers for -- particularly on earnings for the Consulting segment is muted just because of its size relative to Mercer.
But Scott do you want to talk about potential seasonality? Sure.
I don't think Josh that the seasonality has changed.
In management consulting typically we see slower months in July and August and then in December and January as there's lower client activity in that.
That's been that way for many years and hasn't changed.
Specifically the growth we're seeing now I think is driven by -- not by seasonality but by 3 things.
The first is we had a pretty weak 2013 and so our comparison to that is excellent.
It will get harder through the second half of the year as our second half of the year was better last year.
The economic environment has been supportive of corporate confidence and they've been spending money on Consulting.
So that has been helpful for us.
And we've made a lot of changes at Oliver Wyman over the last 18 months or 2 years around the organization and approach to market.
I think we've made it a better firm and we're being more successful in the market and that should continue.
So I'd expect we'll still see strong continued growth.
The seasonality won't be different than the past but the current growth rates in the high teens are unsustainable we think.
Research Division</strong> And so when you say moderating growth -- I mean I know you don't give specific guidance but maybe I'm looking for a little bit.
Does moderate mean high single digits? Or does that mean in line with the rest of Consulting? I would say -- and it's Dan here speaking for Scott.
I would say moderating growth means to the mid- to high single digits at least in my business plan and hopefully in Scott's.
And we'll go next to Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to Guy Carpenter is there any dislocation in the reinsurance brokerage arena where maybe more clients than you would've expected are open to the idea of switching brokers? I'll take that to start with and then hand over to Alex.
I mean the client retention levels in reinsurance broking in general and certainly Guy Carpenter specifically are extremely high and would be the envy of all of our other Opcos.
I mean the -- so the switching that you might see more often on the retail side in either consumer businesses retail businesses is not prevalent on the reinsurance side.
So this is -- so when companies switch it's usually a multi-year relationship development.
And Guy Carpenter is showing its innovative skills in creating a relationship of trust and then a movement happens.
It's not a price-spaced or a point-in-time type of shift.
But Alex do you have something else to add to that? I would say I'd echo again what you said.
I'd maybe say that there's been changes in the brokerage structure within the marketplace okay and that's brought some changes.
The other thing -- the other reason why we might get a -- lose a piece of business -- but actually we haven't been losing -- but when a piece of business is because there's a change in management in one of the insurance companies or change in ownership.
And there's been some of that going on.
So -- but I don't see any major change or shift in the landscape that you might be questioning.
So we have seen no secular dislocation Meyer.
Any other questions? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just one quick one.
Once you've acquired the 34% stake in Alexander Forbes where does that impact the income statement? Is that investment income? Mike do you want to take that? Yes.
No actually it will be the equity method of accounting.
So it will be the earnings of Alexander Forbes.
And then our proportional share which will be 34% when we complete the tranche in this quarter.
And then it will be tax affected.
And then it will be added to the revenue each quarter for Mercer.
And we'll take our next question from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the Risk and Insurance segment.
I believe you said margin expansion will be modest this year and this was in large part due to the foreign exchange.
Just curious on a more normalized basis how much of margin expansion do you expect in that segment? Yes.
I mean I'm not setting a margin target for the RIS segment over time.
I would say that we expect our revenues in RIS to generally be exceeding our expenses in RIS as we march forward.
I would also say that the margin levels in RIS are very competitive in the market and they may actually be market leading at this stage.
So our view is to focus our attention as we mentioned at Investor Day in growing top line revenue and also growing our earnings in this high-margin business as opposed to overly focusing on margins.
Margins will -- margin expansion will be an outcome rather than a driver of our activity.
Any other question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just in the Consulting segment you've shown very strong margins first half of this year.
Should we see a small slowdown in the pace of margin improvement in the second half? I mean the Consulting margins have been rocketing forward over the last 2.5 years.
And really that's down to the leadership team and everyone getting behind the idea of running the business more like an overall advisory and transactional firm and less like a pure consulting firm.
And so they -- we've made tremendous strides in running the business from that standpoint.
We -- when we look forward over not only the back half of the year but in the future we believe both of our segments have the ability to grow their margins.
And so that is a focus of the company a little bit more so these days in Consulting than in RIS.
But overall I would say for both segments the primary interest of ours is growing organic revenue followed by growing earnings and margin expansion as an outcome of us growing our revenue at a faster pace than growing our expenses.
And we'll go next to Charles Sebaski with BMO Capital Markets.
Was curious about growth at Marsh and I wonder if we could get any color on contribution to organic growth from Marsh Agency.
I know the comment about $650 million in revenue but as that sort of earns in and becomes organic over time can we get some thought on how that's helping versus the traditional Marsh business? Sure.
Sure.
Well I'll just start by saying if you look at the RIS segment in total we've had 17 consecutive quarters of 3% organic growth or better.
So we're quite pleased with our growth in this tough market environment of our RIS segment.
And Marsh specifically has had 4% growth 3 quarters in a row.
So Peter and his team are doing a phenomenal job in developing organic growth in a very big company.
And so Peter do you want to give us more color? Sure.
If I -- thanks Dan.
If I start with MMA we look at some of the peer companies outside of the organization for middle market business and they are performing at or above what we expect on organic growth.
I mean the U.S.
and Canada division has multiple businesses in it and therefore it is a big contributor.
But we also have the core U.S.
business for brokerage.
We have Canada.
We have an MGA a private client.
We have a program business.
We have a technology business in STARS.
And they all contributed perhaps not all in the same quarter but MMA has been a really steady contributor.
We have been investing for organic growth as we outlined at Investor Day.
And as we continue to expand our footprint we feel we have more balance for that growth.
Okay.
I guess on another segment saw some commentary that there's been a change in U.K.
pensions and curious if this is a U.K.-specific or company-wide and what the potential effect on expenses are on making a pension change away from a defined benefit.
Okay.
So a couple of things.
One the U.K.
plans both have assets and liabilities above GBP 4 billion which makes them the largest within MMC.
Our goal in the U.K.
-- and you're right that we recently made a change.
Actually it's effective I believe August 1.
But we recently decided upon a change in consultation with our colleagues in the U.K.
to move from a defined benefit plan to close it and freeze it and move to a DC plan.
And our goal in the U.K.
was not to achieve cost savings.
So let me just tell you that right off the bat.
Our objective was to create a DC plan which is highly competitive in the market consistent and fair to all colleagues and which reduce risk over time for MMC.
And we believe we've achieved that.
Now in terms of other plans we periodically review our plans to assess market competitiveness consistency across MMC risk costs all of those things.
But right now we have no current plans to amend any of our other DB plans at this point in time.
And there isn't -- in terms of when you say reducing the risk and I'm assuming the volatility but that doesn't -- I mean that doesn't equate into a cost save? I mean I realize that the plan of it is to limit volatility but that volatility would seem that it would be a volatility up right that's in the long term maybe not next couple -- next quarter or 2 but the next couple of years should be some inherent cost savings no? The -- any savings on large DB plans are driven more by interest rate movements and discount rate movements a little bit of asset returns that sort of thing as opposed to whether you're a DB or DC.
The cost to the company for providing the benefit is actually quite similar.
And we did have benefits in terms of mitigating -- essentially closing the DB plan and freezing it.
We did receive a curtailment gain which we cycled back largely to the colleague base in the U.K.
in terms of mitigating the impact on some of our colleagues.
So there's really no material financial impact based upon that change.
And we'll go next to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
The first one Mike just a clarification on your comment with respect to the Trident III.
Did you say that it's going to be offset largely any income by additional corporate initiatives? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> So we should expect just kind of breakeven for the investment gains for the remainder of the year? I think for modeling purposes Brian that makes a lot of sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other quick one for you Mike.
I noticed you guys raised $600 million paying down $320 million so you're going to have a little more debt on the balance sheet.
Is there any kind of conscious initiative to maybe increase leverage here a little bit going forward? I think in general -- and I'll start off and then hand to Mike to add a little bit more color.
I think our objective over time and we talked a little bit about this at Investor Day is to over time reduce cash on the balance sheet to the extent that's practical.
Over time to raise our level of debt as well still as a conservatively run company.
But overall our ability to handle more debt is certainly prevalent and interest rates are pretty low.
We have a balanced approach.
And so I think you're going to see both of those factors as we move forward over the next several quarters and a couple of years.
But Mike do you want to add to that? No Dan.
I think that's well said.
It's a balance.
We're improving and have improved our credit metrics but we can continue to improve our credit metrics even with this steadily -- well not steadily but beginning to expand the overall debt on our balance sheet.
And that's obviously only one issue of leverage.
It has to do with the pension obligations present value of our operating leases and we've worked very diligently on those areas as well.
So as Dan said it's a balance.
So that final question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I just want -- I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about some of the comments you made earlier about the underwriting environment and the cycle particularly on the insurance side.
I believe a few quarters ago there was a comment made on your call that reinsurance pricing weakness was -- historically has always led to a weakness on the primary side and I'm curious as to what degree do you think things are different this time? Are things meeting your expectations? Has been there more or less disciplined among the insurance companies? It's Dan here.
We don't think things will be different this time.
We think fundamentally that as reinsurance prices reduce it gives more flexibility for primary carriers to adjust their strategies and figure out other ways to grow their business.
And some of that may be giving up some of the gains that they've obtained on their own reinsurance programs.
But Peter do you want to talk about what's happening in the retail? Sure.
I think when we talk about reinsurance it's been primarily driven by property cat and property declines.
When we look at our overall portfolio we're in so many different countries across the world that they all tend to have different dynamics based on mix of business based on geographical footprint.
But if I was to comment and see what's happening on pricing on the primary side we have seen more reductions; nothing dramatic but a modest reduction continuing in the second quarter.
If I look at some of the regions Latin America probably had pricing falling off the most but it's still low to mid-single digits.
Line of business was really driven by property.
Having said that we're cautiously optimistic that we're seeing more exposure increase on the overall book of business.
And so looking at total insured values payroll in the U.S.
sales across the world has been a modest offset to some of the modest price declines.
Thanks Peter.
And I think that about does it for the call.
So I'd like to thank you all for joining us on the call this morning.
I'd also like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in serving them.
Have a good day.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank everyone for your participation.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Third quarter 2014 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward–looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward–looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward–looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward–looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thank you Jamie and good morning.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter results reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO.
I'd also like to welcome our operating companies' CEOs Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Julio Portalatin of Mercer and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman Group.
Also with us is Keith Walsh of Investor Relations.
We live in an age of risk and uncertainty.
Two years ago the world was reading about the eurozone crisis escalating tensions in the Middle East.
The possible effects of climate change and the North East US was bracing for Superstorm Sandy.
Today recent headlines include cyber security Ebola fears healthcare cause and pension volatility to name a few.
Our clients face greater challenges than ever before as they try to anticipate and react to what lies ahead.
Across the spectrum of global companies we believe Marsh &amp; McLennan is uniquely positioned to advice clients around the issues of risk strategy and people.
We have many positive attributes including a tremendous depth of talent in our colleague base a collaborative and cohesive culture market leading positions and a proven management team.
In this uncertain environment there should continue to be strong demand for our services and capabilities which we believe will produce the same growth in revenue and earnings while we continue to reinvest in our businesses.
We also have balance sheet flexibility and believe we’re well positioned to profit from a variety of market conditions.
Moving to our results in the third quarter the company delivered its 13th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
MMC’s revenue growth was 7% with all operating companies contributing.
This performance was achieved both organically and through our strategy of executing on quality acquisitions.
On an underlying basis revenue expanded 5%.
This growth exceeded the increase in underlying operating expenses for the 16th consecutive quarter.
This ongoing record of consistent performance drove our adjusted margin up 50 basis points to 14.6% our highest third quarter margin in more than a decade.
Adjusted operating income rose 11% while adjusted EPS grew 22% extending our record of double-digit EPS growth to 13 quarters.
Looking at risk and insurance services revenue increased 7% to $1.6 billion or 4% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income increased 6% to $242 million notwithstanding the impact of increased hiring at Guy Carpenter and the negative effects of foreign exchange both of which we highlighted last quarter.
Marsh’s revenue increased 8% to $1.3 billion or 5% on an underlying basis.
This was an outstanding performance reflecting balance growth across geographies.
The international division increased 5% matching a strong average annual growth rate over the past five years.
Latin America with growth of 11% reported its eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
Asia Pacific rose 5% and EMEA grew 4%.
Underlying growth in the US/Canada division was 4%.
Marsh's revenue growth was driven by strong new business particularly in countries such as the US Canada UK Brazil and Peru.
Guy Carpenter delivered 3% underlying revenue growth in the third quarter its highest of the year.
This is a good performance considering the ongoing rate reductions in many lines and increased retentions of risk by clients.
Solid new business and penetration beyond our larger clients produced higher revenue in the quarter.
Revenue growth was driven by the US continental Europe UK Facultative and Global Specialties such as marine and aviation.
In Consulting revenue increased 7% to $1.5 billion or 6% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income reached $274 million up 19% from the prior year.
And the segment’s margin expanded 180 basis points to 17.8% the best in over 30 years.
Mercer’s revenue increased 4% to $1.1 billion or 3% on an underlying basis with all major geographies contributing.
When viewed by line of business growth continues to be driven by investments which expanded 10% and by Health up 4%.
Two weeks ago we provided an update on the excellent progress of Mercer Marketplace.
Over 240 companies have chosen our exchange for their active and retiree solutions with approximately 40 new clients to Mercer health and benefits.
These relationships cover 500 000 employees and retirees and provide exchange assets for a total of more than one million lives.
This represents nearly five times the reach of Mercer Marketplace when compared with last year.
Oliver Wyman continued to deliver outstanding results in the third quarter with revenue expanding 18% to $429 million.
This reflects excellent underlying growth of 16% which exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
We anticipate that Oliver Wyman’s growth will moderate in the fourth quarter.
The growth in the third quarter was driven by balance performance across industry groups with particular strength in financial services and geographic strength in North America and Europe.
In summary we produced outstanding third quarter results and we remain well positioned to deliver on the long-term goals we committed to at Investor Day in March.
Growth in revenue long-term EPS growth of 13% increasing cash flows and return of capital to shareholders through reducing the share count and double-digit dividend growth.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter Marsh &amp; McLennan’s revenue increased 7% to $3.1 billion or a 5% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income grew 11% to $458 million and the adjusted margin rose 50 basis points to 14.6%.
GAAP EPS increased 20% to $0.54 and adjusted EPS rose 22% to $0.56 so another outstanding quarter both from a revenue growth and earnings standpoint.
Investment income investment income was $26 million in the third quarter including $24 million of carried interest in Trident III.
We expect that the investment income in the fourth quarter should be de minimis.
We had highlighted on our second quarter earnings call that any investment income that may occur in the last half of the year would most likely be offset by corporate initiatives including strengthening our cyber security protections expenses related to strategic investments and transformation efforts primarily within HR and finance.
Approximately half of the investment income in the third quarter was offset by these initiatives brining third quarter corporate expense to $58 million.
The level of spending in the fourth quarter for corporate initiatives should be similar to the amount spent this quarter.
Foreign exchange as expected the negative effects of foreign exchange on risk and insurance services continued in the third quarter and most likely foreign exchange will negatively impact the fourth quarter as well.
Mercer completed its investment in Alexander Forbes in early October.
As previously announced Mercer’s investment of approximately $300 million consists of two tranches 15% last July when Alexander Forbes completed its initial public offering and approximately 19% in early October following the completion of customary regulatory approvals.
This transaction will be accounted for under the equity method and reported on a one-quarter lag basis.
Accordingly in the fourth quarter we will include the initial 15% share of Alexander Forbes’ earnings net of tax and amortization.
Beginning in the first quarter of next year the full 34% ownership will be reflected as net revenue in Mercer’s operating results.
Debt in early September we issued $800 million of debt including $300 million of 2.35% five-year senior notes and $500 million of 3.5% ten and a half year senior notes.
In early October we used the proceeds to pay down $630 million of future debt obligations including $230 million that was due to mature next September and $400 million due in 2019.
Expenses of 135 million for the early extinguishment of this debt were approximately $0.17 per share will be shown as a discreet item on our fourth quarter income statement.
This expense will be excluded from our adjusted results in the fourth quarter.
The recent debt refinancing allowed us to take advantage of low interest rates extended the maturity of our overall debt portfolio lowered our annual interest expense and reduced future refinancing risk.
As our next bond maturity of $250 million is not due until April 2017.
We have now completed the reshaping of our debt maturity ladder that began three years ago.
At the end of last year debt on our balance sheet was $3 billion with an average interest rate of 5.1%.
Today our debt outstanding is $3.4 billion with an average interest rate of 3.9%.
Cash utilization cash was $2.65 billion at the end of the third quarter including the $800 million debt financing in September.
Approximately $1.8 billion was held internationally.
As I just discuss $765 million was used to pay down the two debt maturities in early October.
Cash utilized in the third quarter included $154 million for dividends a $173 million for acquisitions and investments including Mercer’s initial investment in Alexander Forbes of a $137 million and $250 million to repurchase $4.8 million shares.
This marks the tenth consecutive quarter of share buy backs.
Through nine months cash deployed included $612 million for acquisitions and investments $600 million to repurchase $11.8 million shares and $429 million for dividends.
In total we have utilized more than $1.6 billion for dividends acquisitions and share repurchase this year.
This certainly has us on track to reach our target of $2.1 billion for the year.
At the end of the third quarter shares outstanding declined to $542 million from $547 million at the end of last year.
In the third quarter the quarterly dividend increased 12% with the board having authorized the fourth quarter dividend of $0.28.
Annual dividends per share this year will grow 10.4%.
Clearly we’re delivering on our Investor Day commitments to reduce the share count every year and to increase dividends by double-digits on an annual basis.
Lastly I would like to reiterate what Dan said earlier.
Our results in the third quarter were outstanding continuing the excellent performance we have achieved throughout the first nine months of this year.
With that I’m happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thank you Mike and operator we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) I’m going to take our first question from Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
I was hoping to start off by spending I guess little more time on what you’re seeing within more specifically on the organic revenue growth side.
It picked up in the US and Canada in this quarter can you just comment a little bit more about what’s driving that and also what you’re seeing in terms of the pricing environment on the primary side and just your expectations I guess for the organic growth there in Q4 and maybe looking forward to some initial indications for 2015.
Thanks Elyse.
It’s Dan.
Let me just start by talking about the overall company for a little bit I mean clearly we’re happy with the growth.
The quarter was 5% for Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies and year-to-date is also 5%.
Within this and as we’ve said before each OPCO is different some have more headwinds than others.
If I look at both March Marsh’s 4% year-to-date Mercer’s 3% year-to-date Guy Carpenter at 1% and Oliver Wyman at 15% and that mix taken together gives us our 5%.
I would still bracket us though in a 3% to 5% organic growth world.
I think that’s really where the performance has been and there’s a lot of uncertainty out there.
So generally when we’re looking at our planning cycle and how we run the business and how we prepare for investments etcetera it’s anticipating that we’re still on a 3% to 5% organic growth world but Peter you want to talk about Marsh specifically.
Sure Dan.
Thanks Elyse for the question.
Let me start by just giving you an overview on what happened in the quarter for Marsh.
Again the 5% underlying revenue growth really proud of it’s the eighteenth consecutive quarter for us of organic growth.
It was very balanced across the world so we had all major geographies from international contributing and as you mentioned US and Canada did quite well too with 4%.
What drove that really was a lot of fundamentals.
We had improved renewal revenue retention as well as client retention so that contributed more in international than in the US and Canada because US and Canada had 1% growth at this time last year.
But in the United States and Canada we had terrific new business in the quarter.
We had 13% growth year-over-year in new business.
All the businesses that are in the US and Canada division did contribute to the top line so when I look across the world really pleased and proud of the performance but it really was the fundamentals in executing across the world which generate the revenue growth.
Any other question Elyse? Yes and then just in terms of Mercer Marketplace and the healthcare exchange enrollment I know you mentioned the 500 000 employees that you have in your exchange this year.
How would you in terms of describe I guess the headwind in terms of just the number of companies I guess that you spoke to and those that shows to join your exchange and maybe was there a difference what you saw this year versus last year.
Also if there were some companies I guess that showed kind of wade – and make wade and not on your exchange this year was that more that they were just holding off on their decision for another year or people just decided not to pursue a private health exchange entirely and on.
One last question just based on the enrollment figures that you saw this year and a strong growth do you expect to start to generate positive earnings from your healthcare exchange when we look out to 2015.
Thank you.
Thanks Elyse.
That’s a hell of a question.
So let me start by first giving some kudos to Julio and the team.
We’re very pleased with the early results of Mercer Marketplace.
Now Julio and the Mercer leadership team recognize the opportunity and they created a strategy to develop a comprehensive exchange capability that is user friendly dynamic and flexible.
They’re now executing on that strategy and we expect this to be a big business for us someday and eventually a solid contributor to the results of Mercer’s U.S.
H&amp;B business.
However from an MMC perspective let me just say we really aren’t counting on any meaningful contribution to MMC’s overall earnings for the foreseeable future.
But Julio little bit more detail please.
Thank you.
Thanks for the question.
I really want to set it in context first by talking a little bit about Mercer and where we’ve come in and leading into the Mercer Marketplace and the questions that you ask.
We are really pretty pleased with Mercer’s third quarter performance.
We were able to once again deliver a solid step forward in financial performance while making good progress on execution of our key strategic priorities and objectives.
We produced another solid quarter of earnings growth and margin expansion.
Our top line came in as Dan mentioned earlier 4% and then 3% on the underlying basis up from our growth rate last quarter.
We continue to be very actively involved in managing our cost base and investing in new opportunities while being disciplined across the board.
Last quarter we discussed our strategic investment in Alexander Forbes and crossing the $100 billion assets under management mark in our investments business.
This quarter we are really pleased with – that we’re able to report significant growth and progress in our exchange solution Mercer Marketplace whether it is the roughly five fold increase in employees or our active exchange the growth in our retiree exchange or the lives that we have access to through delivery of voluntary benefits in individual insurance.
Mercer Marketplace exchange platform on any measure has had a really good sales here and I’m very proud of the team for the work that they’ve done in this regard.
Now as we position Marsh’s marketplace today and into the future we continue to look at covering trends and how and why our clients are being attracted to what we’re offering.
But the reality is that we are finding that our exchange solution has a number of key attributes that are very attractive to our client base and prospects.
First we stand the market and our exchange is available to companies with a few has a hundred employees and with no real upper limit.
Second we had built in flexibility that many companies find to be of value insured all self insured medical to find contribution or traditional funding as well as an array of voluntary benefits.
Third we have a single solution that spans every segment of an employer’s population from benefit ineligible to sponsor group plans to Medicare retirees.
And finally we’ve seen very strong early proof of concept including cost savings and high energy and high employee appreciation of the support they receive from our benefit councils.
So when you speak about why people are so attracted those are some of the reasons we have seen and we’ve heard from our clients as being the case and it’s a full spectrum attraction and yes there might be some early movers that are more likely to be considered in that middle market space but we already are seeing for 2015 early adapters on the large market space and that’s been a lot of competition most recently as well.
So this is an evolving platform.
It’s an evolving business and we continue to lead and we expect to continue to be in that leading position for a long time to come.
Thank you Julio.
Well that answer certainly matched the question.
Next question please operator.
And we’ll go next to Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning and thank you for taking my call.
So first question on the Guy Carpenter the reinsurance brokerage actually the organic growth 3% is very strong relative to the market condition.
So on that I just wonder your thoughts on – in the near term what do you see the upcoming January renewal pricing and what could potentially impact on your business? And then on longer term if you think the change in the marketplace to see if there's more alternative capital and the primary company probably either ceding less to reinsurance market.
So what's your – how do you adapt to the changing market there?  Thanks Kai Pan.
So Alex Bischoff comment about your growth and then looking a little bit further what’s the potential impact of alternative capital.
Yeah so we’re really pleased about the third quarter 3% underlying growth is pretty good given the circumstances.
On top of 5% growth the same quarter last year.
How are we doing it? I think we are executing – I believe we are executing our strategic plan well.
Our book of business has improved from the point of view of its robustness.
We have less reliance on the very very large clients that we still have but we would rely on a lot go back five years.
Bear in mind actually this is now I think its 23 quarters where we haven’t gone backwards organically only one quarter we were flat the rest have shown organic growth.
So we have – we do lean forward which I think is good.
Our book of business has moved to being more of a recurring book of business as we’ve done less transactional business in like Quill and other one-off products as well as moving into our segments such as the mutual the excess and surplus where they’re slightly smaller clients or oftentimes much smaller clients but they need us and so I feel pretty good about our book.
I feel pretty good about the way we are focusing on growth areas such as accident and health cyber and also around innovate – innovation is really how Guy Carpenter was founded the base on which Guy Carpenter was founded and we continue to innovate and I’m pretty happy about the pipeline of new services and new client base in technology that we’ll be coming out with over the coming year.
So we continue to lean forward.
We’ve got I believe the best team in the business.
We listen we learn we provide advice we have insights and we look after our clients and I think without being arrogant and complacent that we continue to do that will maintain our relevance in there for our value.
Going forward around pricing it makes – you kind of hear every now and then we are bouncing along the bottom and then you get surprised by further reductions in pricing.
We will see.
We will see.
We are – we’ve had adverse wins for a long time and we continue to be able to eke out growth and we hope to be able to do so going forward.
That’s something within our plans.
And really that – so as far as alternative capital is concerned we are agnostic to capital we need to understand it.
We need to make sure that our clients have free access to the best advices as regards where to go who to rely on and that’s what we are working on.
There will be – there’s some talk every now and then about this intermediation I think as long as lots of options and we're on our game we stand to be in good stead.
Thanks Alex.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
Thank you Kai Pan.
Next question operator.
And we’ll go next to Larry Greenberg with Janney Capital.
Good morning and thank you.
I’m just wondering if we had turned back to the exchange and who – can you just elaborate a little bit on your strategy in the retiree market.
I know you had decent growth there but it seems like it’s moving more slowly certainly than the employee numbers.
So I am just wondering where you see yourself positioned relative to the competition there and any other comments you might have on that? Thank you.
So Julio specific comments on the retiree exchange and our capability for retirees.
Okay.
Thanks thanks Larry.
From the beginning our exchange strategy has been to use the strength of our organization and creativity to put together the most flexible and comprehensive offering in the market and we are well positioned to continue to do that.
It’s obvious that the largest piece of the opportunity lies in the active space all right where there is 165 million employees who are receiving their medical benefits through their employers and if you were to prioritize where you want to stand a lot of your early time certainly there in positioning yourself not just early but for this long marathon run you certainly want to do it then and that’s where we’re focus.
Now having said that as you know we did make an acquisition with Transition Assist we do have a continued investment in the call center capabilities and the technology capabilities for that sector and we will get our fair share of that business as we continue to grow and as always you have to continue to prioritize and reprioritize as the opportunity presents itself and we will continue to invest.
That’s a great answer.
So our priority initially has been on the active space.
We are still in the retiree market and we are in there swinging but our focus has been more on actives than on retirees at this stage.
Any other question Larry? Yeah just numbers question.
I know you are – the number for your – of Marsh employees that were included in actives was there – were there any Marsh retirees in the retiree bucket? The answer is yes.
There were Marsh retirees and it’s about 2600.
Great.
Thanks very much.
It’s about 20 000 on the active side.
Yeah so 20000 on the active side for Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Yeah it’s about 20 000 on the active side and retirees –  That’s 2600 retirees for Marsh.
Perfect.
Great thank you.
Next question please.
And we will go next to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Hi and good morning.
Just a free cash and sort of near-term sort of cash flow question the debt pay down in the fourth quarter would seem to be using a lot of the U.S.
cash and I’m wondering if that means anything from a short-term perspective on buyback?  Okay.
So Mike you want to handle that question.
Yeah and good morning Dan thank you for the question.
You are absolutely right as we manage our cash needs across the year we have to take into account the seasonality of the needs any acquisitions obviously the dividend payments that we make but then the appetite we have for share repurchase and as you know from our Investor Day in March of this year we’re anticipating a fairly significant amount and level of a share repurchase throughout the entire year.
I think it was 600 million through the first three quarters and we certainly are planning to continue to do that through the fourth quarter.
Specifically to your question the U.S.
cash and the international cash we typically build our cash positions throughout the company in the second half of the year and work them up towards our bonus payments that occur at the end of February of the following year.
So looking at this year we basically utilized our cash in the first quarter and then we began to build it up and that will continue to build up through the fourth quarter.
But specifically on repatriation we have not done that much repatriation of our international excess funds into the US through the first three quarters.
We are planning to begin to do that more so in the fourth quarter as well as in the first quarter in anticipation of the bonus payments as I said at the end of February of 2015.
Thanks Mike.
Dan any other question? Just one quick one on reinsurance you guys have made a lot of hires and investments in the reinsurance business this year.
Have you seen any benefit from those hires yet in the revenues? Or is that something that could be coming through down the road? Thanks.
Yeah so a couple of things on that first of all most of the hiring was last year as opposed to this year but we are still very alive to the opportunity that Guy Carpenter has as a premier provider in the space to hire more people now or in the future.
So – and in terms of – I always shy away from those types of questions and answers that I hear across the space about production people and production talents and what they would generally produce.
We are a content company.
Our job is to build the skills and capabilities of the organization.
And when we hire people we are largely hiring them to serve existing clients and we expect that our great service of existing clients will lead to more opportunities on that business and on perspective business on new clients in the future but it’s never a calculation for us as to we are hiring these people and we are hoping they create revenue this amount this year and certain amount the following year after that.
So we are building capabilities as opposed to sales capacity per se.
It’s sales based upon content capability.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Next question please.
And we’ll go next to Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Thank you.
On the risk and insurance services segment for the year-to-date it’s 3% organic revenue growth and 5% operating profit growth.
I’m trying to get a sense of whether at some point we should expect that profit growth to accelerate and if there are any headwinds currently if you can outline those that will be helpful too? Thanks.
Jay this is Mike.
I think on an adjusted basis it was 6% year-to-date.
I just want to make sure that in operating income growth make sure everyone has the correct facts.
Okay but your question is still right considering that we’ve been delivering across MMC double-digit adjusted operating income growth for quite a period of time now.
I think that we are in our sixth straight year of double-digit adjusted operating income growth for the company.
We look at what we’ve said before that 3% is – 3% organic growth is sort of the sweet spot for the company and then when we grow above 3% it’s easier for us to not only drive adjusted operating income growth but also margin as well.
And clearly when you look on a year-to-date basis Guy Carpenter year-to-date has grown 1% which basically means we are not looking for any margin expansion from Guy Carpenter and in fact we’ll spend any amount of money to protect the franchise and build the franchise for the future.
And so underneath the covers you can pretty much imagine that Guy Carpenter is having a year where we’re treading water at best on a margin basis and margin is still rocketing forward and that overall arrives in a result.
And so when we look forward into the future we live as we were mentioning earlier in a tremendously uncertain environment with a lot of moving parts.
But I don’t think there is a finer risk and insurance services organization in the world nor finer risk and insurance services leadership team so I would bet on us in terms of being able to optimize whatever value is available in the world with respect to risk and insurance services.
Okay and then on a separate topic there were a number of changes announced in the financial function across company I was wondering if you could touch on those in terms of how we should be thinking about that?  Sure.
Well I mean we have – we’ve had a number of changes on the colleague front across the organization and within Marsh Mercer specifically we’ve had a number of announcements of management moves and management changes and clearly you’ve seen some things that we’ve done on the function side where we’ve announced that both Marsh and Mercer are getting new CFOs and Mark McGivney has moved from Marsh into a corporate function.
We have a very strong finance function and we are just positioned in ourselves to optimize that financial function for the benefit of the overall firm.
And generally when we are making these moves finance or otherwise it shows the health of the organization and I was very excited to see particularly in Marsh and Mercer recently with several of the announcements that have been made giving high quality people who are a big part of our future new opportunities to hone and test and develop their skills.
Okay.
So it’s all being done for position and strength? Absolutely.
All right.
Thanks Dan.
Next question.
We’ll take our next question from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thanks good morning.
Dan can you talk a little bit about whether you are seeing signs of I guess or what signs you are seeing of possible global economic slowdown? Sure.
Why don’t I start with that and then I’ll move it around the table so each of the operating company CEOs can give some commentary on it.
But as I mentioned in the script I really do believe we are living in unprecedented times essentially in Asia risk and uncertainty.
It’s also in Asia relentless acceleration.
Opportunities and challenges develop faster than any point that I’ve seen in my career.
Over the past few years the world has seemingly traded a set of financial concerns whether that’s global growth financial stability unemployment or a new set of financial and economic concerns which is less about stability and less about unemployment and more about growth.
And so you’re reading now a lot of growth concerns whether that’s with regard to continental Europe the developing market particularly China et cetera.
And the looming potential threat of recession or even deflation in certain economies and into all of that economic bucket is a set of political and geopolitical concerns that we just haven’t seen really until the last couple of years.
And so then I guess you could add to the mix discreet items such as Ebola or cyber attacks and it creates quite a mixture of concern for us.
I mean from our perspective being so well positioned around the world and in 130 different countries issue on an economy basis if you are talking macro really it’s about continental Europe more than any other factor because as we have mentioned before if we look at Europe including the UK it’s about a third of our business.
UK is about a half of that.
So you’re still talking about continental Europe representing 16 17% of our business.
If you recall in mid 2013 so not too long ago about a year ago most economists became cautiously optimistic about European prospect and believing that GDP had dwarfed.
We still seem to be bouncing around the bottom as far as we concern – as we are concerned.
When we look at the data points month-to-month it’s very consistent.
It’s one step forward two steps back two steps forward one step back particularly in continental Europe.
It’s clear that relative to the US and the UK continental Europe is choppier and has a more uncertain economic environment.
In the past insurance has acted kind of as a lagging indicator and consulting has pretty much been a forward indicator in terms of business activity and confidence but why don’t I stop there and just move it around the table and get some commentary.
Scott you want to kick this off? Yeah good morning Meyer.
I’ll try and give you a little bit of insight from what we are seeing on the demand for consulting which has done sometimes at least as a leading indicator.
In the US there is nothing surprising.
The US economy remains relatively slow but there is growth there is still business confidence there and we’ve got a very robust and – for consulting across almost all sectors of the economy.
So that hasn’t changed.
In Europe you all have the data and clearly there is an enormous slowdown in Europe on the economic side.
We still don’t see that on the consulting side of the business so at least in Oliver Wyman where we’ve got – it isn’t as robust as in the US but it’s still strong demand and again it’s across all sectors ranging from manufacturing to financial services.
So it’s not focused on a specific part of the economy.
I think that must be a lag because the economy has slowed down so much there.
I would expect that had some impact on our demand.
It’s hard to imagine how it couldn’t.
One bit of good news on Europe I’m sure you’re all aware of is the ECB completed their asset quality review and stress test over the weekend.
Oliver Wyman supported them with that work and we do hope that will now provide some more confidence in the banking system and may provide some impetus for growth in Europe we will see.
And then outside North America and Europe it’s mixed across the world.
We are definitely seeing some weaker growth everywhere but nothing severe and again it hasn’t fed through into consulting demand which remains strong in almost all markets with maybe the possible exception of Latin America.
Thank you Scott.
Will it stay in the consulting segment for now and Julio give us some commentary please.
Yeah a lot of what Scott mentioned certainly applies to some of our business for sure.
I mean in general we are pretty bullish on the U.S.
in terms of our value proposition solutions.
Pipelines were good.
We continue to see demand for our very large set of solutions.
Little bit tempered just about everywhere else give-or-take we see a certain market slowdown in Europe.
Now in our case about 50% of our European business is out of the UK.
The UK is fairing slightly better than the rest of the continent but of course it’s not going to be immune if the continent continues to slow down but we are seeing a demand for our services and pipeline improvement in the UK.
It’s kind of stabilization of pipeline in Germany a little bit of an improvement in some other parts of the continent.
We’ll see if that actually results in revenue increasing.
But when everything is said and done even if we do see a bit of a softer side on the revenue side we are seeing earnings growth this year and we expect that we will be able to position ourselves for continued earnings growth even in a slowing revenue environment.
Thanks Julio.
Peter? Try not to be repetitive I think the economic factors that really drive insurance in terms of growth total insured value sales payroll employee count are all growing – growing modestly across the world.
So it’s fairly balanced and a little bit of a tailwind that that’s offsetting some of the pricing.
As Dan highlighted if we look at continental Europe again we are cautiously optimistic that we are in a stable environment but if I look at our revenue growth in the quarter we had 33 countries that generated more than 10% organic growth a 11 of those came from continental Europe so third of our growth so it’s encouraging.
I want to be cautiously optimistic but we are in a fairly stable environment.
So overall I don’t see a material impact and that contributing to the slowdown.
Alex do you have anything to add.
Just to say that – you mentioned the Ebola and cyber Ebola we've brushed off our SARS files and we're looking to be able to relate it with the time when SARS came out and so we have our working party on that so I view that as a side opportunity.
Cyber we are certainly seeing opportunity there.
As it gets tougher to grow we are seeing more demand for our strategic advisory help so in general we are still I believe on the wake internationally and I think given that this opportunity to grow so I’ve remained cautiously optimistic.
So Meyer I hope that wasn’t too much for you but that’s our take on the macro question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> No that was outstanding and if I could just throw one numbers question to Mike do we have a sense yet of corporate expenses in terms of run rate for 2015? Yeah I will just take that.
Our expectation would be our corporate expense in 2015 would revert back to something akin to the 45 million or so per quarter.
Okay perfect.
Thank you so much.
Next question please.
And we will go next to Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Yeah good morning everyone.
Good morning.
If I look at the pledged capital deployment shareholders for 2014 you guys talked about 2.1 billion and said it probably wouldn’t be lower than that for 2015.
Obviously net operating profits are lower than that right now and they will be for a few years I assume.
I’m not asking for a long-term capital deployment plan but when you guys think about your strategy are you going to grow into that $2.1 billion number over multi-years or do you think the capital return to shareholders is inflated over the near-term? I’ll absolutely – I’ll start with that and then hand it to Mike.
We absolutely believe that we will continue to grow our adjusted operating income and our cash flow will grow even faster is our expectation over the course of our three or four-year planning cycle.
And when we spoke at Investor Day and made a commitment to $2.1 billion or [they are about] (ph) for 2014 and that 2015 would be similar to that.
Our position on that has not changed and then I’ll hand over to Mike who will fill you in some of the details on how we would arrive on that kind of number for 2015.
Well thank you Dan.
And Josh excellent question and as Dan indicated there is a number of premises with regard to our commitment to investors.
The first premise and something that we’ve shared with investors is for many years our free cash flow was basically diverted into other activities.
But starting several years ago and currently and going forward that free cash flow is available for reinvestment in the business acquisitions capital expenditures it’s in return on capital of the shareholders in the form of share repurchase and dividends.
So when we looked at 2014 we had a few things going on.
First we had a very high level of cash going into the year more than just on a seasonal basis and our intent was to utilize our excess cash over the course of 2014 which we have been doing and we will continue to do.
Then the second thing which is one premise of your question then is well is that all there is and what does that mean for the implications going forward? Well as Dan indicated and we would like to anticipate we plan on very healthy increases in our free cash flow going into next year and continuing.
The third thing has to do with debt capacity and we came into this year with $3 billion of debt on our balance sheet and we have $3.4 billion as it stands today.
We feel our credit metrics have improved over the last three four years and in fact we think that the credit metrics will continue to improve over the next two to four years.
However it also means that within that improvement of credit metrics basically because of earnings growth we feel we have a little bit more capacity to grow our debt.
So overall it’s a combination of utilizing our excess cash little bit higher debt levels but mainly the core of it is very strong operating earnings very strong cash flow and the growth of that cash flow.
Any other questions Josh.
Yeah just a quick one.
On the last conference call you said we might want to expect there could be some investment income from Trident coming through but generally that would probably be offset by incremental corporate initiative expenses.
Did we see the corporate initiative expenses this quarter? Does that mean that margins are slightly depressed or that didn’t happen? Mike you want to take that? Yeah thank you Josh and I’m sorry if we weren’t clear on that.
We did say on the second quarter earnings call that for all intents and purpose is investment income over the last six months of this year would be offset by corporate initiatives.
There is many smaller corporate initiatives the three larger ones that we spoke to and so when we looked at the third quarter we had some idea of what investment income would be but we had a very little idea of what fourth quarter would be.
Now sitting here at the end of October we have a fairly clear idea that investment income over the course of the last six months would be in that neighborhood of $26 million.
That said the corporate initiatives over the last six months of the year or the additional corporate initiatives will absorb that about half of it in the third quarter and about half in the fourth quarter.
And will those corporate initiatives continue into ’15 or there is some sort of inflation of corporate spend right now going on? Yes there is a – there is higher levels of corporate spend which we believe to last on a temporary basis and we don’t expect much of it to continue into 2015.
And you’ll see that all in our corporate line as you did this quarter with corporate expenses being $58 million as Dan indicated our normal run-rate of corporate expenses is around $45 million.
So you saw it very clearly in this quarter and you’ll see it most likely to the same extent in the next quarter.
Thank you and congratulation on the quarter.
Thank you.
Next question operator.
We will go next to Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Hi good morning.
The first question is on the pace of margin expansion in consulting so it seems that Oliver Wyman is probably driving a lot of the pace of margin expansion given the growth I was curious if that’s true and should we see a slowdown in the pace of growth there because of global slowdown.
Should we expect the pace of margin expansion to also slow? Okay so let me address that.
We don’t break out the margins in the – in either segments I mean the operating companies.
We would say that as a leadership team several years ago we identified consulting’s margins as an issue for us to address as a leadership team and to get underneath because we thought that with greater levels of financial discipline and sales capability that we could actually drive consulting margins far higher than what they were and so this is not a one year story at all.
If you look at it in terms of – in 2012 consulting was up 150 basis points in 2013 consulting was up 160 basis points and year-to-date consulting is up 170 basis points.
So we have had three years of dramatic change in consulting’s margins.
We’re right in the middle of our budgeting and planning cycle for the next several years and so it’s really too early for us to tell I mean clearly from a margin expansion we will work in both segments to expand margins with higher levels when we have higher levels of organic growth we will seek to do that.
And we expect in both segments over the course of the next three to five years that there’s tremendous opportunity that we have to go out there and execute on which would help our margins.
But also as we’ve said many times we’re not driven by – we don’t have a margin issue in the company we’re not driven by margin expansion.
We’re focused much more on revenue growth earnings growth and margin expansion is an outcome of having our revenue almost always exceed our expense growth and so that’s our position with regard to margins.
Any other question? Yes just on Mercer.
What percentage of their business is recurring versus this consulting revenue? Mercer.
Okay so just to clarify of the consulting segment just keep in mind that Mercer makes up about three quarters of the revenue of the consulting segment so when you make assessments or some estimates about improvements it would have to be a lot on that side in order for it to happen.
So let me clarify that point.
Second point is that when everything is said and done we continue to work hard to improve over a long term our results and we have a sustainable strategy to be able to do that and we will continue to do that as we go forward.
The recurring revenue how much is – It’s about – it depends on the overall so the – for Mercer it’s about 70% recurring and 30% project oriented.
Thank you.
And the next question.
I think we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
We will take that final question from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Inc.</strong>  Thank you just a quick one here on exchanges.
Most of my questions were answered.
It seems like the investments in exchange are going to offset the margin benefits in the near term.
Is there a level of enrollment where margin contribution would outpace the potential for expenses or do you expect that you’ll continue to kind of manage the business that way until you reach scale?  Yeah so let me address that.
I mean first of all as we’ve said a couple of times we are in the very early stage of a new business.
A business that has dramatic amount of potential for us but we are also cautious because we’re in such an early stage and we don’t necessarily think that every competitor that could be in this segment is already in the segment.
Today at the end of the day business attracts completion and so it’s very hard for us to make any kind of long term assessment.
What I would say is that we really aren’t expecting any earnings contribution and that we will invest whatever money is necessary to position Mercer as one of the leaders eventually in this exchange segment.
So on that basis it’s not a situation that that we’re seeking earnings from the exchange segment we will be recycling any benefits that we get in any kind of short or midterm back into the business as we grow and position ourselves to be one of the leaders.
Okay so – I mean if you think about those investments as you recycle those dollars I’m guessing that either the ROI or something about investing in the exchange makes that an attractive place to put dollars to work.
How about operating margins if we clear out the infrastructure expenses or investments is there a way to think about that even relative to your kind of baseline benefits business.
Yeah Julio you want to take that without getting into details about the margin? Yeah thank you.
I mean our exchange business has the potential to take business for us we’ve said that before and in near we’re not expecting significant contribution to earnings as Dan said.
Longer term we expect margins on the exchange as we said that the investor meetings that we had back in March we expect margin of the exchange to be roughly in line with our margins in our health focused business today which is one of our highest margin businesses that we have in the company.
So investment in the rapidly growing business lies significant ramp up in the administration and that’s why we have an servicing and that’s why you have some early moderation as far as impact on earnings on a positive sense and if sales pace continues modest dilution will happen of course in the earliest but as we said in 2014 we’ve managed to invest and still deliver great margin and great earnings improvement for the segment.
So we’ll continue – meaning the Consulting segment for MMC.
Did that take care of it Mike?   Sure thanks.
Okay thank you.
Okay so I’d like to thank everyone for joining us on the call this morning and in particular I’d like to thank our clients for their support and our collogues for their hard work and dedication in serving them.
Have a good day everybody.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Fourth quarter and Full Year 2014 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the Company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC Web site for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Matt.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our fourth quarter results reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO and our operating companies' CEOs Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Julio Portalatin of Mercer and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh of Investor Relations.
We had another year of outstanding performance in 2014 capped by a strong fourth quarter.
We are a global growth company with many enduring qualities; talented colleagues deep client relationships a vast global footprint depth of intellectual capital a collaborative culture which seeks to harness our collective intelligence a proven leadership team known for keeping its commitments and delivering results.
At Marsh &amp; McLennan we do important work enabling our client success by helping them address the challenges and opportunities of our time.
The current global landscape is one brisling with increasing risks but also opportunities.
Cyber security political and economic uncertainty in the euro zone slowing economic growth in developing economies plunging oil prices historically low interest rates a strong U.S.
dollar all of these trends have gained momentum in the past six months illustrating not only the issues governments multinational corporations and most organizations face but how the speed of change presents its own set of challenges.
In an increasingly complex and dynamic world C-suite needs answers and Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies is ready to provide solutions around the globe.
We made a distinctly positive impact on the businesses people and societies we serve by providing guidance and support during critical moments.
Our competitive positioning as a trusted advisor to our clients has never been stronger.
We are at the forefront of industry innovation and thought leadership around important issues such as advising in aging population how to save for retirement managing global healthcare cost developing and supporting client growth strategies assisting our clients and anticipating and managing risks navigating a new regulatory landscape in financial services and helping our clients capture opportunities in this world of risk.
Moving to our financial results we had an excellent fourth quarter posting our strongest organic revenue growth of the year at 6% and adjusted EPS growth of 16%.
The RIS margin rose 100 basis points to 21% and the consulting margin increased 120 basis points to 16.1%.
We are proud of our strong financial and operating performance in recent years including our record of consistently higher earnings per share.
Over the past five years we have grown adjusted EPS at 14.5% CAGR and our consolidated adjusted operating margin improved almost 500 basis points.
Let's spend a minute on our strong performance in 2014.
Adjusted EPS increased 14% adjusted operating income rose by double-digit for the seventh consecutive year and underlying revenue grew 5% with contributions from each operating company.
Margin expansion occurred in both the RIS and consulting segments reflecting the broad-based nature of our growth.
This marks the fifth straight year margins have expanded in both segments.
At risk and insurance service the margin rose 30 basis points in line with what we communicated throughout the year.
Consulting's growth was robust the margin increased to 160 basis points and resulted in record consulting segment operating income approaching 1 billion.
It's a powerful story and there is more to the story than financial performance.
We continue to enhance the value of Marsh &amp; McLennan for our clients and our colleagues; we encourage innovation creativity and challenge the status quo.
We believe in the search to find the smarter way our culture is vibrant we're constantly building our talent with ongoing development programs nurturing leadership capabilities and attracting the best and brightest at Marsh &amp; McLennan.
Fundamentally our people are what set us apart.
The progress we have made not just in 2014 but over many years is a direct result of our investments for growth.
Since 2009 we have invested nearly $5 billion for growth and efficiencies.
This includes CapEx of $1.9 billion 85 acquisitions totaling $3 billion and an increase in our headcount of over 7 600 colleagues.
Our acquisition strategy is focused on growth market not only geographically but by segment by line of business and by capability.
We were active last year completing 22 acquisitions and spending approximately $945 million and our pipeline remains robust.
We expanded our international operations with acquisitions in Australia Belgium Scotland Canada Chile and Panama as well as in South Africa with our investment in Alexander Forbes.
Marsh &amp; McLennan agency had an excellent year highlighted by the acquisition of Barney &amp; Barney which established the agency's West Coast hub as well as eight other high quality agencies throughout the country.
And we were pleased to host an Investor Day last March where we updated investors on MMC's long-term operating strategies as well as capital management initiatives.
We're delivering on the commitments we made at Investor Day; we committed to long-term EPS growth of 13% and delivered 14% in 2014.
We committed to double-digit dividend growth and delivered 10.4% we committed to reducing our share count and reduced shares outstanding by 7 million we committed to allocate 2.1 billion for dividends acquisitions and share repurchase and utilized 2.3 billion.
For more than 140 years we have been anticipating the changing needs of our clients as the scope challenges around risk strategy and people grows and changes the demand for our services should increase.
We fully expect to continue to deliver on our long-term goals although this will not be without challenges.
Over the past five years we have faced a variety of macro pressures including low interest rates weak global GDP growth and FX volatility just to name a few.
We delivered each year for shareholders underlying revenue growth margin expansion and EPS growth.
In 2015 we faced even more significant headwinds from the impact of low interest rates and a strong U.S dollar.
Again we expect to deliver underlying revenue growth margin expansion and EPS growth.
Although our EPS growth in 2015 will be below what we achieved in 2014 we remain confident in our ability to grow EPS at a 13% CAGR over the long-term.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter MMC delivered its 14th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and adjusted earnings per share an outstanding record of sustained performance.
Revenue growth exceeded the increase and underlying operating expenses for the 17th consecutive quarter.
In the quarter GAAP EPS was $0.54 and adjusted EPS rose 16%.
Risk and insurance services had a strong finish to the year.
As revenue increased to $1.7 billion rising 4% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income rose 9% to $355 million.
The adjusted operating margin expanded 100 basis points to 21% the segments highest fourth quarter margin since 2003.
Marsh's revenue was $1.5 billion increasing 4% on an underlying basis.
The international division was up 5% and the U.S Canada division rose 3%.
Marsh's revenue growth was driven by record new business exceeding 300 million in the quarter.
New business was strong in the U.S Canada the UK Peru and Africa.
In a difficult operating environment Guy Carpenter delivered 3% underlying revenue growth reflecting strong new business.
On a geographic basis growth was led by U.S UK Facultative Asia Aviation and Marine.
Turning to our consulting segment revenue was $1.6 billion with excellent underlying growth of 8% adjusted operating income increased 13% to $251 million and the segments market expanded a 120 balance sheet to 16.1%.
Mercer’s revenue increased 5% on an underlying basis to $1.1 billion with all major geographies contributing.
Investments had 12% underlying revenue growth retirement grew 5% health 4% and talent 2%.
Oliver Wyman revenue reached $460 million underlying revenue growths of 15% was exceptional exceeding even our own expectations all industry's sector contributed to growth in the quarter.
With geographic strength in North America and Europe.
In summary MMC produced another strong quarter both from a revenue growth and earnings standpoint.
And the results for the year were excellent as well.
With strong underlying revenue growth substantial margin improvement and adjusted EPS growth of 14%.
As expected investment income was de minimis in the fourth quarter it should also be de minimis in the first quarter.
As we highlighted on our last two earnings call investment income in the last half of 2014 was expected to be offset by cooperate initiatives Additional cooperate spending in the third quarter of $13 million and $11 million in the fourth quarter essentially offset investment income over the second half of the year.
Going forward we anticipate the quarterly corporate expense should approximate 45 million.
We issued $800 million of debt in September and use the proceeds in October to fund $630 million of debt obligations and cost for the early extinguishment of this debt.
We successfully utilized excess cash in 2014.
This resulted in cash decreasing from $2.3 billion to $1.95 billion at year end.
With $1.3 billion held internationally $332 million for nine acquisitions and investments was the cash utilized in the fourth quarter also including a $166 million for the second tranche of Mercer's investment and Alexander Forbes.
Returning capital of these shareholders remains the priority.
In the fourth quarter we utilized $154 million for dividends and $200 million to repurchase 3.7 million shares.
And for the year cash deployed included $945 million for 22 acquisitions and investments $800 million to repurchase 15.5 million shares and 583 million for dividends.
Annual dividends paid per share increased 10.4% last year.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic about the underlying operating performance of our businesses.
And our ability to deliver strong financial results over the long term.
This year our results will be affected by macro-economic headwinds that have grown substantially in the last several months specifically the continuing decline in interest rates thus impacting our GAAP pension expense and the strengthening of the U.S.
Let me make a few observations regarding our global retirement plans.
Pension accounting considers many factors in addition to the effect of discount rates and asset returns GAAP pension expense reflects projected salary increases mortality rates demographics inflation and contributions.
Cash contributions to our global pension plans which were $181 million in 2014 should be approximately $190 million in 2015.
At the end of 2014 average interest rates used to measure our pension liabilities declined from the prior year by approximately 100 basis points not only in the U.S but throughout the world.
We expect retirement expenses for MMC overall including both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The increase by approximately $125 million in 2015.
We are currently implementing actions to mitigate all of this expense increase.
The planned action with the greatest impact representing the substantial portion of our mitigation efforts to affect the post 65 retiree medical reimbursement program in the United States.
This benefit was eliminated for most colleagues in 2005.
As a global multi-national company we are used to dealing with foreign exchange volatility.
For example FX headwinds in each of the last three years negatively impacted EPS by $0.04 to $0.05 each year.
As seen from our strong financial performance over this period we absorbed this foreign exchange headwind.
The significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar in recent months relative to the rest of the world's currencies will have a greater impact on us this year.
We recently updated our foreign exchange forecast which covers more than 60 currencies including the pound euro Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar.
If the dollar remains where it is today operating income will be negatively impacted by approximately 120 million or $0.15 per share well beyond what we absorbed over the past three years.
We anticipate that the magnitude of the pension and foreign exchange headwinds on a year-over-year basis is by far the greatest in the first quarter.
Our efforts to offset these two macro headwinds should be the most impactful in the first quarter as well.
In conclusion even though EPS growth this year will be below the growth of the past several years we remain confident in our ability to achieve our 13% EPS growth target over the long-term.
And with our growing cash flow we expect to deliver double-digit dividend growth and to reduce the share account this year.
With that I'm happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thanks Mike.
And Matt we're ready to go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Thanks.
First just wanted to follow up with Mike on the two major headwinds you outlined for 2015 retirement expense and impact of a strong dollar.
Are you saying that the full impact that you outlined $125 million retirement expense and $0.15 headwinds from a stronger dollar that there will be mitigating factors to those in 2015? So it's not that full impact that will hit the bottom line? Yes I'll take that Jay its Dan.
Now what we tried to outline in our script we were saying to you that in terms of the pension expense that we are having planned actions to mitigate all of the pension expense headwind and so that's something that you don’t have to consider as having an impact on us but we did point out that foreign exchange and the dollar in particular strengthening has much more of an impact than it would typically have in a given year.
I mean when we look at FX as Mike was saying over the last three years it's been $0.04 or $0.05 negative per year.
The reality is over a 10 year period it's an absolute wash and so it has no impact either way.
As the U.S.
multinational that's dollar-based they then operate in 130 different countries clearly we're going to always -- FX is always going to be a part of our results but this is a higher level than we would seek to mitigate by taking operating actions.
So we do expect foreign exchange ultimately to have a negative impact on our EPS for 2015.
All right.
Thank you for clarifying that.
Now to follow up to that understanding that you're saying MMC is unlikely to generate the type of 14% adjusted operating EPS growth that was delivered in 2014 but you're still committed to 13% long-term -- so in terms of what that means for 2015 do you still think you can do double-digit adjusted EPS growth this year? I mean at the end we don’t give EPS guidance and so I don’t -- really don’t want to go down that path.
I mean the only guidance we've given which we outlined on Investor Day last year was that we believe over a long period of time that we would deliver a CAGR of 13% a year and we still believe that.
So any shareholder that is a shareholder over a long period of time we are committing to a 13% CAGR on EPS.
There's a lot of moving parts with respect to what generate EPS it's way too early in the year for me to even have a view on that I mean a lot has to do with top-line growth et cetera.
And I would want to point also that on a constant currency basis if you looked at our business on that basis we'd still be comfortable with saying that in 2015 we would deliver something akin to our long-term commitment of 13%.
Next question please.
I'll move for our next question from Larry Greenberg from Janney Capital.
The recent government budget proposal had some corporate tax rate suggestions.
I'm just wondering what you're thinking about the tax rate prospectively.
Obviously if some of these proposals were to become law it would certainly help.
But maybe along the spectrum of where we are today to some of these potential positives coming to fruition how you are thinking about the tax rate going forward.
I will start with that and then I will hand it over to Mike.
I do think that we've been watching the news in Washington and yes we start from the basis of -- well it doesn't appear that our tax situation can get worse as a country so therefore we can only get better from here so we're optimistic that that could apply.
For a number of years now we've actually been achieving double-digit adjusted EPS growth by actually improving our core business.
And one of the reasons we are so focused on that not just because our leadership team is driven to achieve double-digit growth in adjusted EPS over the long-term we also have ground to make up against many of our competitors who have tax positions which are superior to ours.
So we have to develop the same kind of levels with cash flow working through operations because the U.S Tax Code is not a help.
I mean specifically with regard to the U.S Tax Code our overarching view is that it needs to be competitive in order -- it needs to be reformed in order to be competitive with the rest of the world and currently it is not.
So Mike you have anything to add to that? Yes thank you Dan.
Obviously with regard to corporate tax for in the U.S we would be very pleased to see a lower overall corporate tax rate.
However the other thing that's very difficult for us is the U.S multinational company is bringing our international earnings back into the United States for investments and returning capital to shareholders but anything that can be done to alleviate that and help us make U.S investments and return capital to our shareholders we would certainly be in favor of.
We do not count on reform until it's implemented and so in looking at your question on forward guidance I would point out just make a few observations -- point out a few things.
First our overall tax rate has averaged 30% over the last five years and so that's probably a very on an adjusted basis and that's probably a fairly good number to model for 2015 until some legislative change occurs.
We're just as in -- Scott pointed out in the fourth quarter it's lower on an adjusted basis it's about 29.5% and on a GAAP basis 27.7%.
On the GAAP basis that's really due to the U.S tax treatment for the debt extinguishment.
So on a more normalized basis probably around 30%.
Thank you.
Then I know you gave your exchange enrollee numbers after the third-quarter report.
But I'm just wondering if Julio might just bring us up to date on how things were looking more towards year-end beginning of the year and just what's going on there.
Larry we're only going to give a formal update on the numbers once a year but having said that I am sure Julio has some color that he can add to the exchange so Julio? So as we reported it back in October we're very pleased with the progress that we're making in our sane strategy we reported north of 1 million lives that had summed up between active and Medicare and that continues to be robust in terms of pipeline that's building.
Many of the clients that we had as you know in the middle market space but more importantly even for us 5 000 and above number of lives we actually doubled the amount of clients that came to us this year last year was about 6% this year is about 14%.
So are beginning to see the edging up let's say of the type of clients that have a more volume in terms of employees.
Now it can be said also that if you compare that to middle market larger market clients or jumbo clients have been a bit slower to make this transition over but we're beginning to see some of it got to move over until high prices of employees.
And that’s important because middle market clients well they continued increase we certainly want to have our share of also the jumbo market as that continues.
So the pipeline is robust it's looking good for 2015.
All of the numbers that we had projected in terms of number of lives per employee have come in right about what we expected all of the savings that we also projected up to 15% are coming in right around what we expected so so far so good we're very excited about the prospects and continue to invest in our marketplace strategy for short medium and long-term success.
We will go next to Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Thank you.
First question Dan you mentioned that the 2014 capital management plan that $2.3 billion exceeded the original plan $2.1 billion.
Do you have an update for 2015? Yes Kai I would say that the $2.3 billion that we committed to an utilized in 2014 it will be at least that amount in 2015.
So in term of breakdown between like return to shareholders and acquisition would that -- similar to what is seen in 2014? Acquisition we don’t budget for acquisitions.
We have a pipeline and we worked the pipeline because so there could be a lot of variability with respect to acquisition.
So it's a hard thing to peg right now I mean I would say and put it in the context we are committed to reducing our share account each year and we are committed to double digit increases in our dividend and so on that basis you can pretty much take what we did last year and extrapolate from there.
Then follow up on the acquisition front their recent press release that you might be interest in the UK broker.
I understand you couldn’t comment on specific deals.
But could you talk about your acquisitions strategy as part of your global growth strategy and reach markets with particular good markets or a geographic year is to the most of your interest.
Sure and I'm glad you recognize that we can comment on any specific deal or any speculation that can be out there from time to time.
So I'll talk a little bit about acquisitions and if Peter Julio Alex and Scott want to add anything then we feel free.
So first of all we have a philosophy right and our philosophy meanings that there is no budget or time tables acquisitions we're focused on quality above every other factor we prefer companies that are growing faster than we are they've traded a multiple below us and where we can see that we can improve their business or they can help us by adding some capability or geography that we currently don’t have.
So somehow that they're going to make us better and generally we develop relationships with people highly talented people overtime and that’s why it's a slow gestating pipeline I suppose to something that’s rapid.
We're always as I mentioned looking at quality cultural fit consistent with our overall four pillar strategy focus on what kind of talent would be coming into the organization and how it makes us better and when all those things aligned usually economics work out.
So we rarely participated in options we've been a disciplined acquirer and that maybe one of the reasons why we don’t acquire all that many things compared to the numbers that we look at because we're disciplined about our approach.
We're not limited by geography as you can see we've committed over the last several years most of our acquisition capital has been in the United States as we have follow through on our agency strategy in the U.S.
But fundamentally we're very interested in international acquisitions and we're looking from both from geographic basis from a line of business from a capability basis all kinds of different types of companies.
And so I would say that our pipeline is robust.
And folks you have anything to add Peter you want to add to that.
Of course very consistent with what you just said Dan its quality each companies that have a track record of growth once that have geographical compliments.
And we also are a very disciplined on our segmentation strategy.
We like to be patients I think that’s evidence in how we pursued agencies Marsh &amp; McLennan agency we're now entering our sixth year in the journey.
But we feel very proud of the high quality agencies that we've been able to acquire.
We integrate a group of best practices and so not only do we grow through acquisition we've been growing organically and have a very strong pipeline and we always are very committed to investing in business after we acquire them.
So we like the SME space I can't see its expanding across the world overtime but again will be patient and try to find the right fit.
Julio you have anything to add to that.
Again very supportive of Dan's comments in terms of what our umbrella is as we go after acquisitions.
But you probably took notice that in 2014 we had an increase of acquisition opportunities that came versus way of course starting with the Alexander Forbes investments that we made just north of $300 million in addition to that we've made the Jeitosa Group acquisition which is significantly important to us for work day implementation in both Europe and the U.S.
And we've made the strategic acquisition for HCM which is an alternative investment base that we want to expand because we opportunity there and I'm sure you see the numbers that investments management business is really growing for us.
So we're going to continue and concentrate on were the growth areas are and where the opportunity for growth is.
And that is our number objective right now and all the culture issues are taking care et cetera we're looking for expansion of growth opportunities geographically and within segments.
We'll go next to Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning.
A question on the pension costs and then the offset in the medical costs that you said.
Is the medical cost offset a cash benefit? The reason I'm asking is your cash pension costs really aren't moving much at all.
So it's really only on a GAAP basis that pension is moving.
But I'm wondering if the offset that's helping the GAAP is a true cash benefit.
No it's accounting in both ways.
So both the pension headwind and offset are both accounting items.
Okay.
Then just switching over to your comments at the beginning where you really talked a lot about the difficult and challenging environment we're in globally and how that's creating a lot of work and projects for you.
I am wondering with regard to the Consulting segment particularly in Oliver Wyman.
Very good organic results; tougher comparisons.
But do you see an environment where you're getting increasing flow of projects and other revenues that could keep overall Consulting organic growth at a healthy level? Scott you want to take that.
Yes I'll talk a little bit about Oliver Wyman but keep in context this is the smaller part of our consulting segment I mean we have a good fourth quarter finishing off a strong year overall.
And that was driven by pretty robust amount across sectors and across regions and in fact a little more robust than we'd expected.
But we do expect consulting demand across the world to grow slightly faster than GDP in the years to come as the world remains pretty complex and we think the successful top-tier firms will grow faster than that as they take share from others and we're squarely in that group so we expect to grow faster than that.
I think the numbers we grew out in 2014 again we wouldn’t expect to see that in 2015 and the best guidance I can give there is still mid to high single-digit growth rates for our business.
Sure next question operator.
We'll go to Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
I was hoping to spend a little bit more time just going back to the capital plan and your outlook.
Does that assume -- take into account potentially taking on any more leverage during the year? And then can you just update us on your view on just more long-term how much leverage you would potentially look to add? Sure I'll start with that and then I'll hand over to Mike.
Clearly and as we discussed at Investor Day and after Investor Day our view overtime is to reduce the cash on the balance sheet somewhat and increase our overall level of leverage as well and put that extra amount of money to work and so if you look at year-end 2014 versus year-end 2013 we increased our debt by 433 million and we reduced our cash by 362 million and so that's part of a strategy and so I think you'll see that on an ongoing basis and emphasis on reducing cash on the balance sheet and increasing our overall level of leverage but Mike what would you add to that.
Yes Dan I probably can't add too much but just to start with premise it's nice that we have four operating companies that generate increasing amounts of not only revenue and earnings but cash flow so it's a very nice position to be in as a Chief Financial Officer to work with my colleagues in these operation.
So the first premise is that we expect our operating cash flow to go up in that regard.
Dan I would completely agree with you we used about 350 million of excess cash that was on our balance sheet.
We're certainly going to try and do that probably in the same magnitude this year limited a bit to what international acquisitions we may see and our ability as I mentioned earlier to bring cash back -- international cash back into the U.S.
in a tax efficient manner so in that regard we're looking to fairly robust year in 2015 above what we did in 2014.
Any other question Elyse? Yes thank you.
If we could also just flip and talk a little bit about what you are seeing at Guy Carpenter.
I know the growth has been steady towards the end of the year.
We've continued to see growth there even while we continue to talk about headwinds in the reinsurance pricing environment which we've heard intensified during the January 1 renewals.
If you can just comment on what you are seeing there and just a little bit about your outlook for 2015.
Thank you.
Sure Alex why don’t you take that? We're really pleased with the year.
But also considering that we were flat in the first quarter to be able to end up with 2% underlying growth for the year is good but it's now been six years where we haven’t had a single quarter that's been negative just one flat the rest good.
So we're leaning forward and I'm really proud of the team and what they do that in respect.
The fourth quarter from a point of view of rating not terribly important because we don’t have a lot of renewals there we had high retention and good new business and our outlook for 2015 is somewhere between slight and moderate growth as we continue to have a good pipeline of new business and retention rates are high due to I believe good service and innovation.
Thanks Alex next question operator.
We'll go to Meyer Shields with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I'm to follow up on that topic.
Is there any direct or indirect benefit from the recently increased amount of consolidation that we are seeing in insurance and reinsurance? Yes I mean I'll just take that I mean at the end of the day the consolidation in both insurance reinsurance and insurance broking is really a 25 year story and so there's been new capital formation there's been consolidation and that's kind of story continues.
We exist to serve our clients and so having a robust competitive market with a lot of choices is good for our clients and good for both Marsh and Guy Carpenter and even with the recent consolidations and announce consolidation there is a significant level of competition in the insurance industry at multiple levels and multiple fronts.
And so I don't there has been any direct or indirect impact on our business as a result nor do we plan for there to be impacts as a result of consolidation in the insurance sector.
Okay.
And I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the risk and insurance organic growth in Latin America? First of all it's really a Marsh question I suppose to a broader risk and insurance services question because they don't specifically outline Carpenter on a Latin America basis.
Latin America is one of our strongest growth regions and has been for quite a period of time as a company -- as a full company.
One of the reasons why if you look at our acquisition strategy and then look at 2014 we made acquisitions in Peru Panama and the Dominican Republic so we're absolutely committed to Latin America as a region and we see it as having tremendous growth potentials in the future.
Peter you want to take the specific question.
Yes sure thanks Dan.
So we had underlying growth of 3% and it certainly is not reflecting its historic growth rates on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
But there is a few things that happened in the quarter so I will try to give a little bit more detail.
One is we had a challenging comparable from the prior fourth quarter which had 13% growth we had some one-time items from prior year acquisitions that didn't repeat in the fourth quarter of 2014 we had significant non-recurring business so some of the really strong business we saw in 2013 did not recur and we're seeing some impact from the economic slowdown.
But as Dan said if you take a look at the full year we had 10% growth it's going to be lumpy from time to time if you look at even international we had 5% organic growth if you look at each quarter there have been different parts of international that have contributed 130 countries and so we think it is very well balanced it's a major contributor to what's in terms of top-line organic growth as a percentage basis but just putting context it's about 7% of Marsh's total revenue.
We will go next to Chris Cliff Gallant Nomura.
Thanks for taking the question.
Mike I was wondering you mentioned that I believe in talking about the pension calculations that globally you are assuming an interest rate that's down a 100 basis points now and I was wondering on an absolute basis what that number is today? Okay thank you yes we're not assuming it is actually based upon where interest rates are at the end of 2014 which is used for the measurement for pension going forward.
And just an example the discount rate was roughly 5.3% at the end of '13 in the U.S it was 4.3% at the end of '14.
In the UK it was 4.6% at the end of '13 and about 3.65% at the end of '14; those are the two largest plans.
But if we look at it throughout the world it was unusual that in almost every geography we dealt in whether it was Canada Ireland or what have you interest rates across the maturity ladder that you use for pensions which is more mid to longer-term were down a 100 basis points.
Okay.
That makes sense.
The second question I had was just on the -- when I look at the brokerage margin for the full year the 22.4% -- very good number and improvement over the year.
If we were to set aside the impact of some of the macro things like interest rates and foreign exchange I was curious: how would mix change affect that number as we go forward? In terms of where you're growing where you're not and so forth.
Well let me just take the question broadly as the margin question.
As we've said couple of times before well margins improve in our organization as an outcome of us growing revenue at a faster rate than we grow expense.
We're most focused on revenue growth and organic revenue growth in particular and increasing our earnings.
And the margin improvement sort of comes a little bit further down on the Hit Parade.
Having said that for both RIS in the quarter up a 100 basis points and consulting up 120 bps and MMC for the quarter being up 70 bps points and for the year being up 70 bps we're very pleased with that performance we think it's strong margin performance and our 7th straight year of margin improvements and the 5th straight year that our margins were up in both segments.
And so we feel very good about our margins and I just want to say that on a going forward basis and in particular for 2015 we believe we can improve our margins notwithstanding the headwinds that we're facing we believe that we will improve our margins in 2015 in both segments.
We will go next to Vinay Misquith with ISI.
The first question is on pensions just wanted to clarify that there is no impact on cash paid for pensions.
It is a very limited impact on cash not material to the organization.
I think that’s $9 million or $10 million.
I indicated it in 2014 our contributions into the pension plans were roughly 180 million and we're expecting this year for it to be roughly 190 million.
Okay.
What level of interest rates should we see that would take the contributions higher? What we are going to do is the pension issue of one year at a time.
I'm hoping that’s it sort of that you have seven years of fam and seven years of fees to them ready for my interest fees at some point.
So bear in mind what generally when something a headwind for you and is macro it can turn around and become a tail wind and it could last for a long period of time.
And so obviously the many analysts how are much more experts and I for several year have been predicting movement towards higher interest rate.
And there is been significant amount of macro factors that have inhibited that move.
But ultimately we feel over time that interest rates over several years are more likely to higher than lower.
But Mike you have anything to add.
And Dan I would start with you’re the same promise that you did which is we will only deal with it year by year.
But as I said there is many factors that go into the issues with regards to not only pension expense but with regards to funding requirements and one of the main things is our assets and however assets done.
And the nice thing that our asset performance last year was very substantial growing not only in the U.S but very strongly in the UK and around the world.
And so we had very good asset performance.
So not withstanding that what happens is the liability goes up with regards to interest rates most at the end of the year which we think to some extent is transitory of course many firms now six years and over a low interest rate environment would use the word transitory.
I wonder what deterioration of that would be.
But that said is really with regards to the asset level and the performance.
But based upon what we're seeing today we're not anticipating a more change in our cash contribution into the pension plans but as Dan said we'll take it year by year.
We'll go to Thomas Mitchell with Miller Tabak.
My first question is -- I think it would probably be for Scott.
And that is there's been a tremendous amount of turmoil in the European banking sector over the last number of years but more recently -- the Italians are apparently going to reorganize totally and so forth.
Is that something that either represents an opportunity or has already represented a significant opportunity for the Consulting side? And if it has how does it look from here? Well you're right Tom that is probably on the consulting side geared more to Scott then to Julio Scott you want to take that question.
Yes I guess I just make a couple of points some.
But the first is I mean I think there will be continued restructuring in the European banking sector and hopefully as they strength in each of the domestic and overall regional banking markets that will help support some growth in the Europe in the future.
I think it has already represented a significant opportunity for us because we do work with the private and public sector and we've been heavily involved in the restructuring of the industry.
And it will continue to represent a significant opportunity for us in the future.
I don’t expect that to change for a number of years.
So this is going to take a long time to restructure the sector.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
Then a separate kind of follow-up is that -- is there something not similar to that at all but separately are you seeing interest in the US banking sector -- either coming from foreign interest or domestic -- that would indicate an increase in either restructuring or M&amp;A activity? The U.S is a little different in Europe and they restructured earlier in the crisis and it's a more stable system now I think with less solvency and capital issues.
But it's a factor that has most of you on the call no enormous growth challenges in the years ahead.
So I think there will be it won't be what necessary in Europe which is wholesale restructuring of the banking sector.
But here there is got to be refinement for the banking model and that could involve people from outside the U.S or from inside the U.S but it also represents a pretty big opportunity for us.
We'll go to Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning and congratulations on the quarter.
I wanted to know if we've seen any changes in the structure of contingent commissions recently under the thesis that typically when you start to see a softer market those structures change in terms of what they reward whether it be profit-sharing versus growth versus new products.
Any changes that you've seen yet? I'll speak broadly and then hand over to Peter.
I would look at this subject more broadly as carrier revenue streams.
And there's always certain parts of our company where we actually earn contingent commission but clearly there's carrier revenue streams for all brokers in multiple countries.
The most important thing around carrier revenue streams is principles around them of putting clients' interest first and being transparent so Peter you have something to add.
Yes Dan there has not been much change in terms of the question on contingents or insurer revenue.
As you said we have been working very hard at Marsh to lead the industry in transparency and disclosure and avoid business practices that have conflicts of interest.
So we have not seen any increases or demands of changing how insurer revenue remunerates brokers.
Thanks Paul any other question? Almost an accounting question.
Does it matter financially with any of your debt covenants or anything in regard the book value impact of pension and FX that runs through versus the cash and the GAAP EPS impact? We'll follow it up to make sure we give you a precise answer with Keith but nothing that I'm aware of.
Next question operator.
And we'll go to Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Just one question; most of my questions were answered.
But the Investments Consulting business within Mercer that's been growing underlying double digit for some time now.
Can you talk about: what is your expectation there? What's driving that? Is it some of the pension items or something else that we just generally see in the market? How should we be thinking about that line? Thanks.
Sure so Julio.
Growth this quarter for investments was driven by new money from clients' wins and market performance for greater regulatory oversight and governance requirement it also led to increased demand for de-risking advice insurance company buyout solutions and implementation advice.
So we did cross the 100 billion mark of assets under management in the third quarter and we ended the year over 115 billion in assets under management so the equity market obviously also help us as some of that is on a fee-based and in relation to the performance but I will also say that we monitor that very carefully so we can control volatility and much of our growth also comes on a fix-fee basis.
And we have a pretty robust investment business across the globe it's not just in the U.S.
right it's about one-third of it that actually ends up being our financial services business in Australia about one-third of it is investment consultancy which is mostly in the U.S.
and Europe and then we have the investment management business which you're referring to onto the assets under management.
So we continue to have a pretty robust growth trajectory there good mix in business growing with great ambition for the future we'll continue to invest as well.
Mike any other question? Thanks.
Yes so just one follow-up Dan I guess on the capital management front.
The one thing I remember you mentioned from Investor Day -- I thought it was a very earnest comment about you're an operator you've come into the role of CEO and thinking about deployment and managing capital and using earnings buybacks relative to earnings.
Now the one thing where Marsh is very different than others is very high interest coverage very very low leverage.
That clearly is a lever.
Is that something that may be an evolution as well as you think about managing for optimization? Maybe at what point -- and maybe you are already; I'm sure the conversation is happening.
But just trying to get an understanding of that.
Because it certainly is an outlier relative to others.
Thanks.
Yes sure.
Most leaders are outliers on one basis to another you don’t get to be great by following a path and so we do set our own path at Marsh &amp; McLennan and part of that path is we're a balanced organization when you look at our return of capital to shareholders it's via acquisitions and growing our company for the betterment of shareholders and clients and colleagues overtime through repurchases and through dividends and so you will see us deploying more levels of capital and as Mike indicated the 2.3 billion that we did last year will almost certainly be higher in 2015 than it was in 2014 so we're very much committed to returning capital to shareholders and but also a very balanced organization in terms of our strategy and our thinking of the ways that we return that capital so I'd hope that answers your question Mike.
Operator I think that might actually do it and let's -- we could take one more question I think other than that I think the conference should be over.
And so we do have a follow-up question from Larry Greenberg with Janney Capital.
Thanks for the color just on the FX being most impactful in the first quarter.
It seems intuitive that it would almost be like a straight-line projection downward in terms of how impactful it will be over the course of 2015.
Is that a fair assumption? No it's not because it really is a mix of business issue.
As an example if you look at RIS some of the European renewals happened in January and January 1 is the biggest date of the year in Continental Europe June 30th is the biggest date of the year in Australia and so it does vary on that basis although the largest portion of the impact would happen in the first quarter.
But Mike do you have something to add.
Yes just had additional color as Dan said approximately half of the impact will be felt in the first quarter for the reasons that Dan articulated.
And then if you look at over the course of the entire year whereas risk and insurance services will feel it most dramatically in the first quarter over a course of entire year consulting will feel it a little bit more than risk and insurance services.
So we will get through the big year-over-year headwind in the first quarter and then it will tail off a bit but it will still be fairly robust against us but like I said about half of it in the first quarter.
And operator and all those on the call thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
I just want to reaffirm that I am tremendously optimistic about our future our core operations are very strong I feel privileged to lead this great company and I would like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in serving them.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today’s conference call.
We thank you for your participation have a good day.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
First quarter 2015 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They're available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn this over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thank you Jamie and good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our first quarter results reported earlier today.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of MMC.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO; and our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Julio Portalatin of Mercer and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh of Investor Relations.
The business world is changing rapidly and we continue to see examples of disruption and discontinuity.
We believe Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies is well positioned in this environment.
We are global leaders in the areas of risk strategy and people and these areas all have great relevance to our clients.
We are defined by deep specialization and united by a common purpose: doing meaningful work that makes a difference for our clients colleagues and shareholders.
We are industry innovators and thought leaders proud of our heritage of advising clients on complex challenges.
Many organizations ranging from multinationals to regionals and small firms both public and private are affected by issues such as heightened cybersecurity risk political and economic uncertainty increased regulation and slow economic growth.
In this increasingly complex and dynamic world the need for advice and services is rising.
Our competitive positioning as a trusted adviser to our clients has never been stronger.
Our proposition for shareholders remains unchanged.
We are a global growth company with increasing capital flexibility.
We continue to invest for future growth and we have a proven leadership team known for keeping its commitments.
I am pleased with our operating performance in the first quarter especially considering global economic pressures and a softening P&amp;C insurance market.
We posted underlying revenue growth across all operating companies margin improvement in both segments and strong growth in earnings per share.
We continued to return capital to shareholders through dividends and meaningful share repurchases.
Like other U.S.
multinational companies we are faced with challenges presented by the current global economic environment.
In particular we are weathering substantial headwinds from low interest rates and the strong U.S.
dollar.
As we discussed on our last conference call our mitigation efforts primarily impact the first quarter resulting in a net benefit to EPS of $0.03 in the quarter and Mike will give you additional details.
MMC's overall underlying revenue growth was 4% in the first quarter and I am optimistic about our ability to continue to drive underlying revenue growth in both RIS and Consulting.
Looking at our RIS segment.
Revenue was $1.8 billion with underlying growth of 3%.
Adjusted operating income increased 9% to $546 million.
At March revenue was $1.4 billion.
Underlying growth was 3% with all major geographic regions contributing.
Strong new business drove the revenue increase.
In the U.S./Canada division underlying revenue growth was 3% led by Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency.
The International division also expanded 3%.
EMEA rose 2%.
Asia-Pacific grew 5% and Latin America increased 6%.
Guy Carpenter's revenue was $368 million up 2% on an underlying basis.
Growth in Global Specialties led the way primarily marine and Lloyd's Property.
In the Consulting segment revenue was $1.4 billion up 5% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income was $247 million an increase of 9% from the prior year.
Mercer's revenue was $1 billion an underlying increase of 4%.
The revenue increase was spread across all major geographic regions including solid growth in Europe and growth markets.
Good revenue performance was aided by the third consecutive quarter of double-digit underlying growth for investments at 13%.
While Talent contributed 4% Health was up 3% and Retirement was flat.
In February Mercer made a $75 million strategic equity investment in Benefitfocus significantly expanding the relationship with Mercer Marketplace our private health exchange.
Together we are driving innovation within the Health &amp; Benefits industry.
Oliver Wyman's revenue in the first quarter was $384 million reflecting underlying growth of 8%.
Revenue increases were achieved across all industry sectors.
As expected the rate of growth decelerated from the double-digit growth rate produced last year.
In summary even excluding the $0.03 net benefit from our mitigation efforts we produced strong EPS growth and margin expansion in both segments.
In 2015 we expect to deliver underlying revenue growth margin expansion in both operating segments and high-single-digit EPS growth.
Additionally we remain confident in our ability to grow EPS at a 13% CAGR over the long term.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the first quarter we delivered solid underlying revenue growth across each of our operating companies and double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Revenue growth exceeded the increase in underlying operating expenses for the 18th consecutive quarter.
GAAP EPS rose 10% to $0.88 and adjusted EPS increased 12% to $0.91.
As we discussed on last quarter's call results this year are being impacted by 2 macroeconomic headwinds: the decline in global interest rates and the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Consistent with our comments last quarter our estimate is that higher retirement planned expenses and foreign exchange should impact earnings per share this year by approximately $0.30.
The effects on our quarterly results will vary.
In the first quarter these macro headwinds impacted earnings by approximately $0.12.
As anticipated we made changes to our U.S.
post-65 retiree medical program last month.
This medical benefit was eliminated for most colleagues more than a decade ago.
The net result of the 2 headwinds in this mitigating action was a benefit to operating income of $23 million or $0.03 per share.
Looking forward if foreign exchange rates remain at their present levels we estimate the impact of the 2 macro headwinds will be $0.08 in the second quarter $0.06 in the third quarter and $0.04 in the fourth quarter.
It also helps to look at the net impact of these items by segment.
In the first quarter the mitigation almost completely offset the macro headwinds in the Consulting segment and had a positive impact on profitability and margins in the Risk and Insurance Services segment.
In the second quarter the headwind should impact Risk and Insurance Services slightly more than Consulting.
In the third and fourth quarter about 1/3 of the headwinds are expected to impact the RIS segment with 2/3 impacting Consulting.
So as we progress throughout the year it may be best to look at profitability growth and operating margin improvement on a year-to-date basis.
We expect adjusted earnings per share in the second quarter to be similar to last year.
And as the year-over-year impact to the macro headwinds dissipates we expect EPS growth in the second half of the year to be stronger than the first half.
We think it is important to share this level of detail in order to give the investment community insight regarding the net impact by quarter and by segment of the macro headwinds our overall business plans and our mitigation actions.
I would like to reiterate what Dan said earlier we expect to generate high-single-digit growth in earnings per share this year.
Investment income was $2 million in the first quarter a decrease of $11 million from a year ago.
Investment income is expected to be de minimis in the second quarter unless there is a change in the status of Trident III.
Corporate expense was $44 million in line with our anticipated quarterly expense level.
Over the last several years we appreciate our debt portfolio.
Our most recent transaction was in March when we issued $500 million of 5-year senior notes.
As a result of these actions our average cost to debt has declined substantially for example from 5.1% in the first quarter of last year to 3.4% this quarter.
Our next debt maturity is a $50 million term loan due in March of next year.
Our cash was approximately $260 million in the United States.
Uses of cash in the first quarter included outlays for our annual bonus awards which have increased in each of the past 6 years; $300 million to repurchase 5.3 million shares of our stock; $151 million for dividends; and $140 million for acquisitions and investments.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thanks Mike.
So Jamie we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the EPS outlook I just want to confirm that the starting point that high single-digit EPS growth rate is $2.82 for full year '14 which is the adjusted number.
That's correct Jay.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> The other thing that caught my attention in the quarter was the pace of the buybacks $300 million in the quarter.
Can you talk about why that accelerated in 1Q and what the implications are perhaps for the rest of the year in terms of buyback? Sure.
Well if you go back to last year we returned between acquisitions dividends and share repurchase $2.35 billion to shareholders.
And we made the comment in our last call that we would expect this year to be at least that amount.
So we feel very comfortable with our ability to return value to shareholders through those 3 actions.
And when we look at it our overall feel as we go forward would be that you'll see us over time reducing cash on the balance sheet increasing our level of leverage over time and putting that leverage -- increased leverage to work for our shareholders.
And so our expectation in terms of share repurchases and acquisitions are similar to last year although acquisitions is one of those things that you can never really quite time.
And share repurchase to us would be a very good use of our money and certainly superior to growing cash on the balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question was with regard to the first quarter the offsetting benefit of closing the retiree medical plan my sense is that had a benefit even on the adjusted operating income especially for RIS.
Is it -- can you provide us with sort of a normalized margin for 1Q relative to the 30.3% that was printed? Yes sure.
When you look at our margins in general I think what the -- it's smart to not only back out things like foreign exchange but also back out the mitigation aspect particularly in the first quarter because that's where it landed so heavily.
Even if you back all of that out on an underlying basis MMC's margin would have been up about 50 bps and we would have had margin improvement in both segments.
Dan I think you meant Risk and Insurance Services margins would have been up about 40 or 50 bps.
Consulting is fairly straightforward.
And we'll take our next question from Ryan Tunis with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is just on your organic growth in U.S.
and Canada.
I know you mentioned -- I think it was driven by MMA.
Just curious what was the growth there in MMA and what were some of the other puts and takes maybe against that 3% in U.S.
and Canada? Sure well we're not going to start disclosing quarterly individual units within segments and calling them out separately.
But Peter you want to talk broadly about the U.S.
and Canada division? Sure.
I'll start Dan with why we call that MMA.
And we have been communicating on our quarterly calls about the quality of acquisitions that we're making the ability that we have in terms of being meaningful in the middle market and having a national platform.
But in addition to making those acquisitions and bringing something very unique to our clients and to the market we had strong organic growth.
And so we're seeing the components of strength from acquisition as well as from organic growth.
In the U.S.
and Canada division again we have multiple businesses that roll up in the reporting and MMA was the leader in terms of its organic growth.
The one thing that we'll have within overall Marsh as well as the U.S.
and Canada division was a weak new business in the first quarter of last year.
So therefore the rollover had some impact in the first quarter growth.
But overall the fundamentals of client retention strong new business and the 3% in the U.S.
and Canada in a mature part of the world we were pleased with.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess my follow-up would just be the $500 million debt deal you guys did does that change your outlook I guess in terms of what you think you can do for dividend acquisition and share repo for the remainder of the year? Mike you want to take that? Yes thank you very much.
This is basically in line with what we've been doing over the last 3 years in essentially reshaping our debt portfolio or as some people say debt maturity ladder.
We look at it over a number of years and we started to reposition our 2014 and 2015 maturities.
And then looking at that we wanted to essentially have a smooth ladder going out into the future.
We went through about 3 years with keeping our actual debt essentially flat at around $3 billion.
And then what we've been indicating to the investment community as well as the credit rating agencies that as our earnings continue to grow we will begin to bring up our overall debt levels in a sequential fashion.
And so it's very much in keeping with our long-term view very consistent with what we've been doing.
If you look at it on a seasonal basis where we need the cash where we -- where heavily utilization of cash all things being equal is in the first quarter due to our annual payments for bonuses.
And so when we're increasing our debt most likely on an annual basis it could occur in the first part of the year.
So that's a long answer to something to say no it's very consistent with the multiyear strategy.
And we'll go next to Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on Jay's question on the margin expansion especially in the RIS segment.
Even you're excluding these foreign exchange and the pension impact pretty healthy year-over-year improvement.
Is that sort of -- if you look at organic growth at 3% is that an indication when the organic growth is 3% or above we should see some meaningful margin expansion for these segments going forward? Yes well I'll start by saying for quite a while we've sort of used 3% as the baseline and saying if we can grow organically 3% or better we believe that we should be able to achieve some margin expansion.
I wouldn't say it quite the way you did Kai in terms of at 3% there will be meaningful margin expansion.
I mean clearly whatever the delta is between 3% and a higher number creates more of an ability for us to expand margins.
And if we're closer to 3% we wouldn't really be driving at that stage for margin expansion.
But Mike do you have anything to add? Just more specifics on the first quarter for the clarity.
When we looked at the margin improvement in Risk and Insurance Services for the quarter which was 310 basis points we knew that that was affected by the benefit -- the net benefit of the closing of the retiree medical plan post-65 in the United States.
And so that's why we wanted to give the investment community much more specificity on the first quarter.
So the benefit -- the net benefit that we indicated the $23 million was felt almost completely in the RIS segment.
And so that's what I was saying earlier.
If you just say based upon the underlying growth in the segment what would be the organic growth and what would be the margin improvement predicated on that.
And thus for the RIS segment it would be in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 bps.
In Consulting it's a different situation.
The net headwinds and the net offsetting items essentially netted out.
It was actually a $2 million or $3 million hurt in Consulting.
So the margin improvement of 160 basis points was more of a true margin improvement for the segment in this quarter excluding the impacts of the mitigating items and the macro headwinds.
Research Division</strong> Then a follow-up on the sorry on the Health segment.
The organic growth 3% this quarter and -- just trying to see your view on because last year -- end of last year you have pretty meaningful increase in terms of your Mercer Marketplace the private healthcare exchange.
Just wondering how those grows which translate into organic growth in particular in the Health segment? Julio you want to take that? Thank you and thanks for the question.
It allows us to provide some additional clarity and color around our Health growth which we are actually very bullish on and I'm very pleased with.
You might recall a couple of years ago we made an announcement that we will be incorporating our benefit admin business into our line of businesses.
In this particular case the Health and Benefits -- Benefit Administration business or Outsourcing was actually incorporated in our Health segment.
And when we did that of course the results were -- have been actually pretty good because we've been able to put profit improvement plans in place to improve our margins in that business.
Part of that decisions -- part of those decisions that we make of course has to do with client and client retention our ability to price adequately for the services that we give.
So if you were to take the impact of some of the client retention challenges that we had because of anticipated action that we took to improve profitability in ben admin.
If you were to take that impact out of the Health number you would actually see what I think is a much more expected 7% growth.
So our core Health along with MMX grew 7%.
With the actions of ben admin it impacted it to 3%.
So we're very pleased in fact.
We had good performance in our Health business.
We expect this to continue.
Our client retention x ben admin is actually very strong our commissions continue to increase.
Mercer Marketplace will enhance this segment going forward.
And it's important to keep in mind that we'll continue to invest in our exchange health business because we think it's a robust environment for us to do so and to maintain our leadership position.
And we'll go next to Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a couple of questions.
One is so on the buyback -- I mean it's great to see you comment about leverage Dan and the buyback there.
I guess one question is looking now running at the $200 million to $300 million quarterly run rate 1Q seasonally light because of operating expenses do you expect -- or should we expect that -- or can we infer that -- I mean we'll look to maybe increase leverage a bit during the first quarter to sort of supplement the seasonally light cash flows there and to kind of adopt the or espouse a run rate near this level on buybacks? Yes I mean I think the way you should look at it is more annual than quarterly.
I mean clearly every year we pay bonuses in the first quarter and so it tends to be where we're cash light.
And we have lots of items that -- and lots of ability to cover that.
So that's not an issue.
And as you see we ended the year with quite a bit of cash on our balance sheet including $260 million in the United States.
And I would think more over time what you should consider is that we will be increasing our leverage over time and that by doing that will give us more capital flexibility not only for share repurchase but also for dividends and acquisitions.
And we remain a very balanced player in those 3 areas.
What I can be -- what you can infer from that is is that our level of acquisitions will not necessarily impact our level of share repurchase that we're looking at really our ability to do more of each over time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Great that's helpful.
And then just on kind of to square the margin and FX and high-single-digit earnings comment.
So if we think about the organic growth kind of sticking at this level on RIS maybe we'll continue to see that sort of 50 basis point margin expansion through the year.
So to get to that mid-single-digit EPS growth does that mean that Consulting margins should -- we should expect to see this level of margin expansion? Or just -- I'm just trying to mathematically think about how we square kind of those points? So the way I would look at it is first look at last year right because that flip is not switched.
Switch is not flipped and everything is different in the new year.
And so if you look at last year we grew overall as a company about 70 bps in margin and RIS grew 30 bps and Consulting grew 160.
When we think about this year in terms of 2015 I think what you'll see is RIS will probably be pretty similar to last year and Consulting will come off a bit from 160 bps.
We're not expecting that for the full year but we'll have some corporate benefit because our corporate initiatives that we had in the back half of last year are unlikely to recur.
So we'll have some benefit there.
So overall we feel like we'll end up with pretty good margin expansion for the company in -- during the year of 2015.
Research Division</strong> Got it great.
And then just the last quick one maybe Julio on the private exchange.
Any update on enrollment from the last time we spoke? And one question I'd love to ask too is thinking about like the employer size spectrum I mean can you talk about your initiatives or kind of hit rate in the sub-thousand or maybe mid-size or large on that front? Julio? Thanks for the question.
As we've discussed in the past it's our intention to give full updates of our Mercer Marketplace progress on a annual basis it'll be towards the end of the year when we do that again.
But I would like to remind of you a couple of things and maybe add some color to the size piece because we did make some disclosures on that in the past.
So as mentioned in the past our total lives of eligible lives is over 1 million for both active and Medicare.
And when you put those together it's over 1 million.
And when you add voluntary benefits and individual access mediums we can add another 1.5 million or so.
So we're up over 2 million when we talk about eligible lives.
Mercer's U.S.
Health and Benefits business touches millions of lives and gives us an opportunity to grow our exchange business over time as well as new prospects.
We continue to have good interest from and dialogue with clients both our current clients and new clients both in the mid- and large-market companies although we continue to see a little bit more momentum still in the mid-market versus the large market.
And Mercer Marketplace has a key part of our future -- is a key part of our future as you know.
So if you look at some of the early adopters versus what our current numbers are you'll see that in '14 we had about 67 clients.
Now we have closer to 250 in '15.
Talked about the number of lives already.
If you break it down by client size you'll see that nearly half of the clients that we have in our 2015 number is about let's say 5 000 or less on number of employees.
So you still see a pretty good number of people going into the exchange that obviously are in the market space that is considered to be mid-market and below.
And about 40% of our clients by the way would be somewhere in the area of over 5 000.
But then again when you look at jumbos over 20 it really drops considerably.
So that goes to your comments earlier in terms of wanting more color as it relates to the size of the employees that we're currently having as part of our Mercer Marketplace initiative.
And we'll go next to Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping to spend a little bit more time I guess on the acquisitions in light of your capital outlook for the year a little bit lower in the first quarter.
And I know if you guys can kind of just talk about what you're seeing in the acquisition pipeline especially in terms of M&amp;A in terms of the MMA platform and if higher prices of deals have kind of caused you to walk away on that front or just kind of what you're seeing there as we look for the balance of 2015? Sure.
So I'll talk a little bit about acquisitions and then I'll hand over to Peter to talk a little bit more about the pipeline within Marsh and in particular MMA.
I think it's important to reiterate that our philosophy around acquisitions is that we have no budget or timetable associated with acquisitions.
We work a pipeline and we develop relationships and sometimes it takes years to actually cultivate a relationship to where we then can have a discussion around whether they want to join with us or not.
Our primary focus is on quality.
We prefer companies that are growing faster than we are that are trading at multiples below our multiples and where we can see that we can improve the business by working together.
And from that standpoint I might also say that we rarely participate in auctions.
Auction environments -- they don't meet our philosophy because actually they're generally geared to optimizing the price for the seller as opposed to any kind of joining together of 2 different companies.
So just to reaffirm we develop relationships with really talented people over a long stretch of time.
Now in terms of the multiples I mean it's clear over a number of years there's been some expansion in multiples generally fueled by low interest rates and the entry of many PE firms into the space.
And multiples are important to look at but it may be even more important to look at well what is the EBITDA because these are private companies and you have to make assumptions around EBITDA.
And sometimes I would say that buyers can be far more optimistic about what those assumptions are than what we would be as a disciplined buyer.
And so we also have to look at the projected growth rate.
And from that standpoint we're well practiced.
As an overall company last year was a fairly active year and it added up to almost $1 billion worth of acquisitions.
The pipeline overall for the entire company looks about the same.
I'm not going to say it's fuller than what it was at this point last year.
It's about the same.
And we're working on some things that are consistent with our approach of a string-of-pearls strategy where the average acquisition for us over the last 5 or 6 years has been around $40 million.
And we're also working on some things that we would call more nuggets that might be a little bit more size but those tend to take more time.
And so Peter you want to add in some on specifically about MMA? Sure.
I think you summarized everything Dan for the organization and it fits very well within MMA.
We're working very hard to cultivate relationships.
We don't have a budget so it can be very lumpy from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year.
And as Dan had mentioned we very much focus on companies that can strategically position us differently whether it's in a space like the SME or provide capabilities that we may not have.
We made an acquisition of Torrent at the end of last year which was a best-in-class flood servicing company with great technology.
So we're very focused on making sure that we're cultivating those relationships.
We tend not to be in a bid process.
So in that cultivation of relationships they tend to be just 2 parties involved.
And if I can speak specifically about MMA and International which is where we focus a lot of our acquisitions we feel the pipeline is very strong for 2015.
And we're optimistic that throughout the next several quarters we should be able to move forward.
Thanks.
Elyse would it be helpful if Julio talked a little bit about the investments that they've made where they haven't purchased 100% of a firm but they've invested in Benefitfocus and Alexander Forbes? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure that would be great.
Julio? Okay thank you.
Yes it's great to be able to give some additional color on this because as we've talked about in the past we have some very pointed strategies on how we want to continue to expand our business.
In the case of Alexander Forbes as mentioned earlier it was very important for us to be able to get much more of a foothold and much more of a footprint in the Africa continent.
And of course Alexander Forbes provides that in a very meaningful way.
It's part of our focus to expand our new capabilities in growth markets and of course in the Investments and the Retirement space as well.
So our investment in Alexander Forbes really helps us do that and continues to help us move forward.
Benefitfocus we're very excited about.
I mean obviously we have a big investment going on in our exchange business.
And we bought $75 million of newly issued shares of Benefitfocus representing 9.9% of outstanding shares.
And quite frankly we're really pleased with the partnership that we've developed with Benefitfocus.
We're developing proprietary approaches to the exchange base and we want to make sure that that was preserved over a long period of time sustainable for us to count on for a long period of time.
And we made the investment there and we're very excited about our partnership in developing new things.
As we continue to also invest in our Investments expansion SEM came available to us.
And through a lot of discussions over a period of time we were able to secure that acquisition.
Of course that supports our Investments business especially in the alternative investment space.
So it really expands us in that area because our clients have been asking us to actually provide great solutions in that space and that helps us in that area.
So as you can see all of these acquisitions are really very strategic and very much aligned with our strategic purpose.
And we'll continue to look for opportunities just like those.
Any other questions Elyse? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes if we can also spend some time talking on Guy Carpenter.
2% growth in the quarter just how you kind of think about the growth you can potentially see there on an underlying basis for the balance of 2015 especially in light of some of the price declines you've been seeing in the reinsurance market? Sure.
Alex? Sure thanks.
So the first quarter was actually a little stronger than we had expected and the second quarter may be a bit tougher.
We can expect -- it is a moderate or slight to moderate underlying growth environment for us.
We expect to grow over the year slightly maybe even moderately.
But the next quarter may be a little bit tough.
And we may have clumpy quarters because when you're in that sort of environment where the percentages are small one quarter will be stronger than the other.
But we do believe that we've got a good pipeline.
We continue to innovate.
We continue to be relevant.
As there are more options around capital we are agnostic to where that capital comes from and our clients are looking for -- there's interest in unbiased but informed alternatives.
We have been specializing as you know.
We've been segmenting.
We opened up a Mutual Company Practice in 2013 the Excess and Surplus Line practice the Cyber Solutions Specialty in 2014 Healthcare in 2014 and just announced the Public Sector Specialty Practice.
So we continue to seek relevance.
We continue to seek innovation.
We've got strategic advisory teams around the world helping companies grow helping companies face increased regulation.
So we're optimistic about our growth -- about continued growth this year though at a as I said slight to moderate pace.
To sum that up GC is doing a terrific job in specialization and segmentation and all that hard effort enables them to eke out some level of growth in a low growth environment.
And that's our expectations for the year.
And we'll go next to Dave Styblo with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I think I'll flip the other side of the business on Marsh for the organic growth there.
Another solid quarter of 3%.
I guess as I was looking at things it's a little bit lower than any of the quarters last year.
And obviously the environment as you mentioned is a little bit more challenging.
But I'm curious what you're seeing more specifically in the end market.
Is there any sort of more material slowdown in activity or increased competition? Or on the other side I'm just wondering if there's perhaps any sort of timing of revenue that might have been going on in the quarter? Okay.
So I'll just take that broadly and then hand over to Peter.
I think when you look at the segment overall one thing to consider is that we -- for the last 17 out of 18 quarters we have grown organically 3% or better.
And so as you stated we've had some periods of higher than that but we've really done a good job creating that as essentially our floor in the segment.
But Peter? Yes.
I had commented on the United States earlier.
So perhaps I'll just give a little bit of insight on International and its growth.
First of all we have a terrific International business.
It's really balanced with strength across the entire geographical platform.
But in the first quarter it is heavily weighted towards EMEA.
We had 2% growth in EMEA 5% in Asia-Pac really led by Asia and 6% in Latin America.
So there are couple of factors impacting the growth -- again nothing to be concerned about.
But we had modest renewal growth in the quarter and that was primarily based on 2 factors.
One is we had slow new business growth in the first quarter of 2014 so that had a slight impact on the rollover for 2015.
And then pricing coming off a little bit more thinking mid-single digits led by Property in the International business had some impact.
The real positives for us is that we had a terrific new business in the quarter.
So we were up 7% in International.
And in Continental Europe we had 10% new business growth.
And then in the U.K.
we had 8%.
Other strong performances we had Africa at 15% and Latin America in double-digit.
So we are winning in the marketplace.
We are in a very positive way and a balanced way growing our portfolio through adding clients.
And so we had a little bit of an impact from last year.
Again it's heavily weighted towards Europe and the U.K.
So when you think about the macroeconomic factors and the slight impact again we had from rollover new business and the rating environment we were pleased with the performance.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
Is it more appropriate to think more like a 3-ish percent organic growth for the year as opposed to kind of 4% to 5% clip you were at last year then? No I don't think that would be appropriate.
I think the way you should look at it is the overall company including RIS and including Marsh has been operating in a 3% to 5% organic growth area.
And we're just as likely to pop out of that as we are to go underneath it.
But 3% to 5% seems the more accurate way to look at it over a longer period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a little bit more coming back to Benefitfocus.
I know you started to highlight that.
I'm just curious to get a better sense of the rationale for the investment.
Obviously you guys have been working with them for a while.
What was the reason for needing to actually help make the investment in there? I guess at one point the company was burning through a little bit of cash.
Was it just to the help the company out make sure the business was [indiscernible] so that they could focus on operations? Or was there something new in terms of the expansion of the contract terms and things and services that they were doing for you that is part of this new relationship? I'll say broadly and then I'll hand over to Julio that we saw a tremendous opportunity to develop a closer relationship where we could collaborate more deeply.
And we certainly weren't needed as a cash source for them.
They had all kinds of different choices.
And we are very pleased that we were able to make an equity investment in return for some cash.
But Julio? Yes thanks for the question.
As you know the importance of Mercer Marketplace is high on our list of priorities.
It's -- Mercer Marketplace is our proprietary benefit exchange solution.
It's powered by Benefitfocus.
And our relationship has flourished.
We now serve a lot of lives together including active and retirees as well as their dependents in our Mercer Marketplace as part of exchange.
This equity investment enhances that relationship.
It strengthens our proprietary solution.
And it allows us to more closely collaborate and align on employer and consumer development needs.
And those were the primary reasons why we actually went in and did the equity investment.
It solidifies the partnership and in essence allows us to look at things more strategically together as the exchange business continues to evolve and grow.
And we'll take our next question from Larry Greenberg with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess this is for Mike and it relates to FX and other good stuff like that.
So is it fair to say that the pension impacts both the costs and mitigation efforts are still expected to completely offset one another for the year and that the FX impact is now up to $0.30 a share from what you had indicated $0.15 coming out of the fourth quarter? Mike you want to take that? Okay thank you.
Larry and I'm glad you asked for clarity.
When we look at the total headwinds pension the lower interest rates essentially impacting our pension expenses on a year-over-year basis and foreign exchange it comes to roughly $240 million to $250 million pretax dollars or roughly $0.30 a share.
And it basically is roughly equal between the 2 macro headwinds.
So about $0.15 of foreign exchange about $0.15 of call it the impact of lower interest rates.
That's very consistent with what we had said on the fourth quarter earnings call.
The numbers just changed a bit meaning a few million.
But the total aggregate amount was still in that $240 million $250 million category.
So to be very clear the foreign exchange impact is $125 million for the year and we felt almost about $50 million of that in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Just on Guy Carpenter I saw that there was a negative 2 point impact from M&amp;A.
I'm just curious what that was? Larry that's just the category -- this is Mike.
That's just the category where we say transfers the businesses between different of our operating units and others.
So that's really what it was.
We wanted to be very clear when we showed just the underlying growth.
It's true business growth to the investment community and so that was really in the other category.
And we'll go next to Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a little about FX.
And obviously 1/1 is a big day for you guys.
You -- and currency is currency is much stronger on 1/1.
When you think about the new year 2016 is there much of an FX impact expected I mean I guess particularly from Guy Carpenter or whatnot? Well why didn't you tell us Josh? Research Division</strong> Where interest rates are right now? Well I think FX moves in a lot of different factors other than interest rates and there's many variables.
And it tends to move in cycles.
I mean we've looked at the movement of the dollar all the way since Bretton Woods.
And the reality over that length of time where it's sort of close to the median level of where the dollar has been it feels a lot stronger just because it was weaker over the last period of time.
But actually over a longer period of time it's about at the median.
And it's really the volatility rather than the -- rather than whether the dollar is strengthening.
And we were -- I think the whole world was taken by surprise in the period from say late October early November all the way through to say the end of January.
And so we're not anticipating that but ultimately we're working on a series of mitigating actions to try to make sure that both a -- that we're as prepared as we can be in a situation of either a strengthening dollar or interest rates to where that could create an impact on 2016.
Research Division</strong> Well yes.
I'm just talking about as through January 1 though.
Given -- when you guys -- or on the last conference call you had I would imagine a good sense of where your FX would be by the end of year because a disproportionate amount of the revenue for the quarter was already earned through by the time you held the conference call.
Yes I mean if you -- well if you look at our quarters in general Guy Carpenter is a little bit more weighted toward January than the other operating companies.
Europe is a little bit more weighted toward January within Marsh.
But Marsh actually as the biggest opco is pretty well balanced between the first second and fourth quarter and the third quarter is the shortest quarter.
So I don't think you can read too much into the results as to whether we anticipate headwind January 1st or not from FX because I think it's too early to say.
I think the important thing to remember with FX is over a longer period of time for long-term shareholders it has been a wash for Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies and that's over 10 years or 20 years.
And so from that standpoint this is a an issue that has arisen for this year.
The last few years we have worn $0.04 or $0.05 a year of headwind on it.
This was just a spike year in our view but it's hard to tell where the macro world goes and there's an awful lot of variables beyond interest rates that impacts the U.S.
dollar.
Research Division</strong> That's perfectly reasonable.
And then I can probably do the math myself and get it wrong.
If I take all the puts and takes from FX interest rates pensions the mitigation efforts in terms of your long-term target of 13% EPS growth where did the quarter shake out on a normalized basis? Well I would say I'd go back to what we said last quarter which was when we were looking at 2015 we were saying if we looked at the year of 2015 on a constant-currency basis we thought that we would deliver a result which was akin to our 13% long-term growth target.
And that's just the impact of FX.
And so from that standpoint we expect to be high-single-digit EPS growth this year taking into consideration all of those factors and we're working on a series of initiatives now that could potentially be utilized for next year in the event that there's headwinds that we have to deal with.
And we'll go next to Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> 2 quick questions just for you.
First one Mike just a question on the pension.
Any changes to the expected cash into the pension plan this year with the changes that you've made? Mike? Good question.
No I think we're anticipating $190 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it doesn't change at all.
Okay great.
And then secondly I'm just curious I noticed you hired somebody a pretty senior person for tax in the first quarter.
Any kind of updated thoughts? I know you chatted about it on last conference call but any kind of updated thoughts on what you can do to get your tax rate down? Well actually we've hired 2 senior people within the finance department recently.
Both the head of tax and also a treasurer.
But Mike you want to talk a little bit about tax more broadly? Yes I would say with regard to the new head of tax it's really just long-term planning -- succession planning and we're very fortunate to get a very very capable individual to add to our team.
When you look at tax obviously we were looking at a lot of issues across the entire globe.
The thing that would help us the most but we can't wish for is a reduction in the U.S.
corporate tax rate.
It's among the highest if not the highest in the developed world.
The other issue with regard to the U.S.
tax regulations is that it makes it very difficult to bring international cash back to the United States in a tax efficient manner.
And so a lot of our efforts are predicated to that.
When we look at what we've done over the last 4 or 5 years the tax rate either on an adjusted basis or on a GAAP basis has averaged in a range of 29.5% and about 30%.
And I think that's probably a good range to use for modeling purposes going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just quickly from an on operations perspective I wonder if you could talk a little bit about opportunities.
With cybersecurity what you've done to beef up is there anything that you still need to do from an investment perspective to get yourself in a position to really take advantage of what looks like it's going to be a big opportunity for you all? Yes I'm glad you mentioned that Brian because it is a tremendous opportunity for the insurance community at large.
And it's probably one of those things that -- it's a journey without end.
I mean in terms of what kind of innovations we can do to help better prepare our clients to not only beef up and be aware about risks associated with cyber but also gain some level of risk transfer protection.
So the insurance industry has done a great job in other areas over a long period of time of helping spread best practice and actually help clients avoid and mitigate risks before they even think about transferring it.
And we think that Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies has a tremendous role to play in not only risk transfer but also risk identification risk avoidance risk mitigation.
But Peter do you have something to add to that? We just -- yes Dan with RIMS being this week we just launched some additional cyber capabilities.
So we do agree that the high-profile breaches the awareness at the board level risk appetite in new industries like financial institutions retail and healthcare there is definitely an increased demand.
And I think insurance companies are being very thoughtful in trying to offer capacity.
We have continued to expand our modeling capabilities and just launched Marsh Cyber Monitor and Marsh Cyber View.
I won't go into great detail but it's a fresh look at cyber by continuously updating different threat indicators and the analytics side is looking outside in provides a very interesting lens into companies in risk scoring.
And so we're able to do that in a real-time basis and have partnered with a company called Cyence.
We announced it on Monday and believe that we will be arranging capacity for clients and have already rated 40 000-plus companies in the U.S.
So I think it's an emerging and evolving part of our business well one that we think will have high growth over time.
So operator I think we have time for one more question.
And we'll take our final question from Thomas Mitchell with Miller Tabak.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of semi-philosophical questions here.
First of all when you think about the "mitigation opportunities" that you have and you mentioned having more mitigation opportunities going forward how does that tally with your general view of the value proposition you offer to employees who might expect to work until they retire? Okay.
So I'll take that broadly and I enjoy your semi-philosophical question Thomas.
But I think you're on to something because ultimately all mitigation in a company has to be finding ways of reducing organic expense as a way to mitigate some headwinds that can be anticipated.
And then you look at well what organic expenses do you have to try to mitigate.
And there is a whole serious of things but compensation and benefits is the largest expense category of all professional services firms.
And then you have areas like technology real estate travel and entertainment et cetera.
And so you have to look at those things really broadly.
When -- I think as a good example of the way we approach our work with colleagues I mean we really do believe very sincerely that our colleague base is the heart and soul of the entire company.
And actually when we're making decision as an executive committee we always have the thought of is this good for colleagues on a mid- and long-term basis in our minds when we're making those decisions.
So I really don't think it has anything to do with people as they're getting closer to retirement and that sort of thing.
I mean we're an industry that actually builds knowledge and historical knowledge is incredibly important.
And so from that perspective I think that we have a lot of people who have had significant experiences in our businesses over long periods of time who are still working for us and we're happy they are.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you're basically at a standard that's the same as the rest of the industry.
So you're not likely to get producers taken away from you for any reason for that.
I wouldn't have as a standard view us as being similar to any of the companies that you think our traditional competitors are.
The fact of the matter is Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies is a unique company and we do not have a single competitor in the world that competes with us globally across our operating companies.
We have some competitors that come close to that.
But in our view we don't have the issue that you're citing about production or producers.
We're not a producer culture.
We are a content [indiscernible] and we employ people who enjoy working in a creative environment for smart people who are dedicated to working on clients and it's self-selecting.
So we attract those sorts of people and we have not seen any abnormal blips in our voluntary turnover over the last several years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's very helpful.
I appreciate that.
Now I have a sort of different kind of question for Mike which is if I -- just -- if we just sort of close our eyes and we're sitting a year from now now our sort of base is essentially $0.76 a share that is we're now looking at foreign exchange neutral as if there were no change from March 31 '15 to March 31 '16.
So in that case it's perfectly reasonable for you to make the comparisons to do against first quarter '14.
I'm not talking about that.
But now that we're looking at that my basic question is are the things that come in either on an annual basis or even a quarterly basis from this termination of this plan that would essentially benefit either quarterly or annual earnings going forward perhaps not by as much as the one-time adjustment but would be an ongoing or recurring savings for the company.
Okay.
So thanks Thomas.
Thank you Thomas.
And Mike? The answer is that we've been dealing with these 2 macro headwinds depending on how you count for 4 or 7 years.
In aggregate the interest rates -- lower interest rates have cost us probably $0.55 on our earnings and the foreign exchange over the last 4 years has cost us $0.30 enormous amounts.
Yet every year we continue to have growth despite the headwinds.
And I think that's what we're looking at in '16 and beyond.
Okay.
Thanks Mike and thanks Thomas.
And I'd like to thank everybody for joining us on the call this morning.
Specifically and having Peter and I just returning from RIMS I'd like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in serving them.
Have a good day everybody.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation and have a great day.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events and results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Thank you Serra and good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our second quarter results.
I am Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO; and our operating companies' CEOs Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Julio Portalatin of Mercer and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh of Investor Relations.
Now Mike is fighting a bad cold so we are going to preserve his voice for the Q&amp;A so Keith will read his script following mine.
Previously we have talked about how volatility and complexity present unique opportunities for MMC to serve clients in the areas of risk strategy and people.
As we have throughout our history we will continue to serve as a trusted adviser to our clients on the challenges and opportunities they faced in this dynamic environment.
Another Marsh &amp; McLennan constant is our continued commitment to our core principles.
We exist to serve clients.
If we do so effectively we will achieve our revenue and profit objectives.
Our success is driven by our ability to execute which is a core differentiator.
We are always looking for the smarter way.
We have a permanent dissatisfaction with this status quo and we act with integrity and purpose in all that we do.
Our continued commitment to these principles should rank us among elite global growth companies.
In recent months several high profile transactions have been announced in the insurance industry including transactions involving trading partners and clients in the P&amp;C and health insurance space as well as potential combination involving two of our largest direct competitors.
Let me share some observations on their potential impact.
Amongst the host of other reasons a prolonged period of low interest rates and benign loss activity has led to an environment where pressure is likely to build on underwriting margins and ROEs for the P&amp;C industry.
This reality is even more acute on the reinsurance side of the business where sharper price declines alternative capital and higher levels of risk retention are all prevalent.
The number of insurance industry transactions and their aggregate value has been significant.
However the insurance market is very deep and we do not expect these recent deals to alter the overall competitive landscape in any meaningful way.
As an example despite what seems like a lot of consolidation over the last decade the number of U.S.
P&amp;C carriers has actually increased in the last 10 years to more than 1 100 today.
Furthermore the share of U.S.
industry premiums written by the top 5% of carriers is virtually unchanged from a decade ago.
We believe the impact of these combinations to MMC and our RIS segment will be modest.
In our view the role of Marsh is even more critical at a time of industry consolidation.
Specifically for Guy Carpenter the combination of a few large clients could lead them to buy less reinsurance; however we expect this impact will be gradual and limited.
Over the last several years Guy Carpenter has been a market leader in a tough reinsurance environment always innovating and finding ways to add value to clients by looking at the entirety of their risk profile.
Guy Carpenter has achieved strong levels of new business broadened the client base by focusing on underserved segments and expanded internationally.
Despite the ongoing challenging environment we will capitalize on our position as an employer of choice in the reinsurance industry and will continue to add talent and capabilities.
Additionally there have been a number of announced potential transactions among major providers of health insurance.
These combinations may better equipped the national carriers to deal with the challenges they face on multiple fronts such as achieving greater scale and becoming more efficient expansion in their government programs the rise of public and private exchanges and consolidation of the provider side of the business.
We do not see this as having any meaningful negative impact on our market position.
To the contrary the proposed combinations of major health insurers makes Mercer's role more relevant as we seek to drive comprehensive plan designs at competitive terms.
Consolidation will cause our clients to have questions about how this impacts them.
As a trusted advisor there is no company better positioned than Mercer to help clients navigate their health and benefit options in this changing landscape.
Lastly we have recently seen the announcement of the potential merger of two direct competitors.
I fundamentally believe that competition is good.
We thrive on it and it makes us better.
These firms are good competitors and we expect they will continue to be if they come together.
That said this really is a potential combination of two separate and quite different businesses that have little overlap.
This is not altering the competitive landscape for Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Now let us turn to our results.
Given the broader operating environment I am pleased with our results for the first half of the year.
Over that period adjusted EPS rose 6%.
For the second quarter underlying revenue was up 3% and adjusted EPS increased slightly to $0.80 reflecting the continued effect of macroeconomic headwinds on our earnings.
For our Risk and Insurance Services segment revenue was $1.8 billion with underlying growth of 2%.
Adjusted operating income was $445 million and the adjusted operating margin was 25.4%.
Through six months adjusted operating income rose 4% approaching $1 billion and the adjusted operating margin increased 160 basis points to 27.9%.
At Marsh revenue was $1.5 billion underlying growth was 3%.
The U.S.
and Canada division lead the way with underlying revenue growth of 4% reflecting strong performance from our U.S.
operations.
Within the U.S.
both our core broking operation and Marsh &amp; McLennan agency had very good performance.
MMA continues to be a strong contributor to revenue growth.
In June we acquired Dallas-based MHBT one of the nation's largest and highest quality independent insurance brokers.
With revenue of $75 million MHBT will serve as MMA's southwest regional hub.
Also in July MMA established its presence in Canada with the acquisition of Vézina a leading Montréal-based firm.
In our international division underlying revenue growth was 2% with 3% growth in EMEA while Asia-Pacific was flat and Latin America grew 5%.
Guy Carpenter's revenue of $275 million declined 2% on an underlying basis.
The U.S.
and Asia-Pacific were areas of strength.
For the six-months Guy Carpenter's underlying revenue was flat a reasonable performance given reinsurance industry pressures.
In May we announced the strengthening of our of our RIS management team.
Peter Zaffino became Chairman of the Risk and Insurance Services segment and will continue to serve as Marsh's CEO.
Peter was CEO of Guy Carpenter for three years prior to becoming CEO of Marsh in 2011.
His new strategic role is a natural evolution of his deep experience in the reinsurance industry as well as his knowledge of the primary markets.
Peter Hearn will join Guy Carpenter as CEO next June.
Peter has over 30 years of industry experience and is known for his successful track record of driving growth and innovative thinking in the reinsurance space.
He will continue to strengthen Guy Carpenter's position as a premier provider of advice and solutions for clients.
Alex has done an excellent job over the past four years as Guy Carpenter's CEO and will continue as CEO through May 2016.
At that point his full attention will be on his role as Chairman of MMC International which was a part-time focus since 2012.
Alex is the ideal person to drive MMC's international growth agenda and will report directly to me.
Moving to consulting revenue was $1.5 billion in the second quarter up 4% on an underlying basis.
Adjusted operating income was $244 million and the adjusted operating margin increased to 16.4%.
Through six months adjusted operating income rose 4% to $491 million and the adjusted operating margin increased 90 basis points to 16.9%.
Mercer's versus revenue was $1 billion an underlying increase of 4%.
Revenue grew across major geographies including continued solid performance in Europe growth markets in the United States.
All global businesses contributed led by investments at 8% with AUMs now reaching $136 billion.
Talent grew 4% its third consecutive quarter of growth.
Retirement increased revenue by 2% and health rose 3%.
Health in the U.S.
continues to benefit from Mercer marketplace.
This was partially offset by lower revenue in our health and benefits administration business as we execute our strategy to improve profitability.
Mercer continued to broaden its offerings to clients this quarter with product launches in executive compensation pension risk exchange and wealth management.
Oliver Wyman's revenue in the second quarter was $441 million reflecting underlying revenue growth of 3%.
We are pleased with Oliver Wyman's underlying growth of 5% for the six months as it builds on mid-teens growth last year.
Revenue increases were achieved across all businesses with the exception of financial services which were off slightly from its record level posted in the same period last year.
In summary despite substantial macro headwinds in the second quarter we produced solid underlying revenue growth and EPS in line with our expectations.
We expect strong EPS growth over the second half of the year.
For the full-year we expect to deliver underlying revenue growth margin expansion in both operating segments and high single-digit EPS growth.
We will continue to return capital to shareholders through dividends and meaningful share repurchases.
Additionally we remain confident in our ability to grow EPS at 13% CAGR over the long-term.
With that let me turn it over to Keith.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the second quarter Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies delivered solid underlying revenue growth in both segments.
GAAP EPS was $0.77 and adjusted EPS was $0.80 a slight increase from the second quarter of last year.
As we have previously discussed results this year are being impacted significantly like two macroeconomic headwinds the declining global interest rates and the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Based on current FX rates we expect the macro headwinds to negatively impact EPS by approximately $0.32 this year an increase from our earlier estimate of $0.30.
The adverse impact in the first quarter was $0.12.
In the second quarter it was $0.07 and we expect $0.07 in the third quarter and $0.06 in the fourth quarter.
In this quarter the headwinds had a greater impact on Risk and Insurance Services than Consulting.
We expect the impact will be greater on the Consulting segment in the third and fourth quarters.
Due to the timing of the headwinds and the mitigation action taken in the first quarter we believe you get a clear picture of our earnings growth and margin improvement by viewing our results on a year-to-date basis.
Through the first six months of the year adjusted operating income increased 4% to $1.4 billion.
The adjusted operating margin expanded 120 basis points to 21.6% and adjusted EPS increased 6% to a $1.70.
As Dan just discussed we expect strong EPS growth in the second half of this year.
Investment income was $3 million in the second quarter an increase of $5 million from a year ago.
We recently have been advised that Trident III is harvesting its final two investments.
If this occurs in the third quarter we should recognize investment income similar to the $26 million of investment income in last year's third quarter.
Total debt was $3.9 billion at the end of the second quarter including $50 million of commercial paper outstanding.
Throughout the year we have utilized the commercial paper market which provides us with short-term liquidity and gives us greater cash management flexibility.
The next debt maturity is a $50 million term loan due in March of 2016.
Our GAAP tax rate was 27.9% in the second quarter compared with 27.6% in the second quarter of last year.
This quarter we benefited from New York City Tax Reform which was enacted in April.
The tax rate can fluctuate quarter-to-quarter reflecting our geographic mix of earnings tax settlements completion of open tax years and the impact of changes in international and state tax rates.
However for modeling purposes based on the current landscape it would be reasonable to assume a tax rate of 29.5% in the second half of this year and 29% for 2016.
We are committed to returning capital to shareholders.
In May the Board of Directors renewed a $2 billion share repurchase program.
The board also increased the quarterly dividend 11% to $0.31 per share effective with the third quarter payment.
Our cash position at the end of the second quarter was $930 million with approximately $155 million in the U.S.
Uses of cash in the second quarter included $151 million for dividends $260 million for acquisitions and $475 million to repurchase 8.2 million shares of stock.
Through six months uses of cash included $302 million for dividends $400 million for acquisitions and investments and $775 million to repurchase 13.5 million shares of stock.
Our share count has now declined five straight quarters and is down almost 3% versus the prior year.
We remain on track to exceed the $2.3 billion we used last year for share repurchase dividends and acquisitions.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Thanks Keith and well done.
Operator we are ready for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] first question from Dan Farrell Piper Jaffray.
Thank you and good morning.
A question on your tax rate comments you mentioned I think 29.5% for back half of the year and I think you said 29% in '1 so we are seeing a little incremental decline in sort of the guidance that you put towards that.
I am wondering what is driving that and I am wondering longer-term if you see any opportunities or ways to trying and gradually manage the tax rate down going forward.
Thank you.
Thanks Dan.
I mean clearly we have made certain commitments to looking at our global tax position over time and we have invested in a new Head of Global Tax Dina Shapiro who started with us recently.
Now it is too early for Dina to have a real impact on moving our tax rate down but this has been a focus of the company for the last couple of years.
I mean clearly when we look at our competitors we are at a disadvantage by being a U.S.
multi-national vis-à-vis what tax rate we have versus most of our competitors so we have to operate the business better.
We have to grow faster and we have to have better operating earnings to drive higher pre-tax to arrive at is similar levels on an after-tax basis so we have been doing that.
The search for tax efficiency for us started several years ago and we are beginning to see some of the benefits from that but let me hand it over to mike and test that throat of his to see if he has got anything to add.
Yes.
Thank you Dan.
You are absolutely right.
We are at a disadvantage as an American company because of the high federal and then state tax rates but also the issue of any of the international cash that we want to repatriate into the United States has a federal true-up to 35% rate.
Over the last three years we have really dedicated it a significant amount of resources tax planning and strategies to be able to effectively repatriate cash into the U.S.
in a tax efficient manner.
Now that we feel that that is fairly well settled we can then pivot and turn more of our energies into other opportunities that we may see around the world.
As Dan indicated we have put additional resources into our tax group particularly in the international tax planning.
When you look at that with regard to where the tax rates on a global basis for example the U.K.
continues to reduce its corporate tax.
As we indicated in our scripts New York State a year ago and then followed by New York City effective in April of this year reduced their tax rate so when we look at everything across the year we feel that our tax rate for the second half of the year most likely will fall in the 29.5% but because of all of these strategies and where we think we see some additional opportunities it should be 29% as the base rate going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Then one other quick question if I can.
In the Risk and Insurance Services you mentioned I think that a lot of the currency headwind was there yet the margins looked like they held up fairly well which would imply I think some nice underlying margin growth even though the organic was only moderate.
I am wondering what you see driving that margin growth.
Are you still seeing some expense efficiencies and how do you think about that as we move forward? Thank you.
Sure.
In terms of business performance our main objective is to drive revenue and earnings growth.
Secondary objective of ours is to improve our margins in both segments and we view that really as a natural outcome of growing revenues faster than expenses almost all the time.
Now periodically we are going to grow expenses faster than revenue for opportunistic reasons but we are very careful on that and it would not last for very long.
When we look at RIS and Consulting margins we think it is best to look at year-to-date and really a full-year basis because mitigation against some of the headwinds we were facing felt so heavily in the first quarter you really have to look over a longer period of time for this year so we do expect to have margin expansion in both segments this year.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Sure.
Next question please? Larry Greenberg Janney Capital.
Hey good morning.
Just staying on that subject can you give us what the underlying margin change was in the second quarter adjusted for the headwinds? I think you gave that number in the first.
Well I think I would start by saying if you look specifically at say RIS the overall margin in the second quarter for the company was flat at 19.9% but year-to-date for the whole company is 21.6% so it is up 120 bps on a year-to-date basis.
As I was just saying to Dan I think you might get the wrong kind of outcomes if you look in two shorter periods for this year because the mitigation in the first quarter really does have an overextended effect on where margins are.
Even if I broke down the margins for you we were reluctant to in the first quarter because as you remember in the 100s of basis point improvement on margins which is really did not jive with the level of growth we were having on the top-line.
Even though it looks more reasonable on a year-to-date basis and the margin increases come down a bit so it is more credible in terms of overall performance.
It is still not the most accurate of pictures so all I could say is be patient and bear with us.
As we go through the year you will see the more active margin improvement.
If I give you a little bit more than that it would just be we look at this year not that too similarly to how we look at last year in terms of overall company performance on margins.
Maybe a little bit better maybe a little bit worse but we are kind of in the same ball game and as we had said before Consulting we expect to come off the very large pace of 150-basis point 160-basis point annual margin improvement and we expected RIS to actually improve a little bit from last year our margin so that is about as much color as I think it is credible at this point in time.
Okay.
That is fair.
I mean it would be helpful to us I think just kind of back test the numbers we are using in our models but certainly I understand the point.
Then I think Dan you mentioned that you had a bit slower growth in health at Mercer and you are changing some things to improve profitability.
Just wondering if you could elaborate on that a little bit? Sure.
Julio you want to take that? Sure.
Thank you Larry.
Health remains a pretty profitable and growing business for Mercer.
It will continue to be there as time goes on.
As I discussed in the last call we decided a few years ago to incorporate our benefit admin business into our line of businesses just to remind you of that action that we took.
In this particular case health and benefits administration business or outsourcing was actually incorporated to our health segment.
When we did that the results have been pretty positive because of course now we have a PNL Manager managing the full breadth of the business that is necessary to deliver our solutions and of course attention is being given to both top-line opportunity as well as bottom-line opportunity.
Part of those decisions had to do with of course on the bottom-line improvement our client and retention of some of the businesses that perhaps over time had just not been able to meet the margin and profitability targets of our business.
Because of that you take all these elements into the impact Mercer marketplace impact of course of revenue growth core H&amp;B revenue growth and then you take the impact of the good actions that we are taking to improve profitability administration.
You basically have similar type of growth patterns that you have had traditionally with the health business.
We will go next to Kai Pan Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
Good morning.
First question Dan thank you for the extensive remark on the industry consolidation a just follow up on that and for Marsh specifically what you think Marsh will play a role in this industry consolidation? Do you see either organic or inorganic opportunities? I will start with that and then I will handover to Peter for more commentary.
Let me address inorganic first because I do not really think that that would be spurred in any way by the insurance company level consolidation you have seen.
When we consider Marsh Marsh has an active pipeline of acquisition opportunities.
They work that pipeline over generally a number of years in developing relationships with companies in the RIS space so you know I would say it is mainly focused on organic.
Our view is that Marsh as a trusted advisor is an incredibly valuable resource to clients and it is on the client side of the table.
It is not a seller of insurance but actually operates as assisting clients analyze their risk profile and as a buyer of insurance once the design and placement structures are agreed on with the client.
When we look what we look at the consolidation in the business overall on the insurance company side you know it will be taking larger world-class kind of firms in many instances and putting them together.
over the long-term we really expect that to have additional value for our clients in terms of broader product new product better financial kind of stability the industry overall so you know it is sort of is consistent with the way many of our clients particularly our largest clients think about the business where they want to have fewer deeper more strategic relationships with fewer capital providers but Peter you want to have to that? Yes.
What I would Dan is just that as you mentioned being advocates of clients is making sure that we are working closely with the insurance companies in the consolidation on strategy how they intend to integrate the organizations and how that affects risk appetite.
There could be some overlap today on signings so how do we manage through that.
Also there could be specific geographies whether overweigh under weigh underway and making sure that we are giving our clients real-time advice on how they interact with the companies after consolidation.
That is great.
Just a follow-up on the capital management side it looks like the pace of the buyback has been faster than last year.
You understand the full-year of buyback amount in the first half.
I just wondered will the pace be sustained and what is source of funding for the buyback do you need to increase your leverage to fund the buybacks.
Thanks.
Sure.
Let me start with that and then I will hand over to Mike if I leave him any room because he is well drilled me over the past couple of years in how we think about capital management in general but as we outlined on Investor Day we expected to have higher levels of cash all to be deployed on a go forward basis and that was generally from three factors higher free cash flow owing to our string of strong operating results and our improving operating performance declining calls on our cash and also optimizing our balance sheet and we explained how over time we expected to reduce the cash on our balance sheet and also grow our leverage over time.
We have been doing that and it is a very balanced strategy so when we think about after reinvesting in our people and our existing businesses there is basically three ways that we deploy our cash M&amp;A dividends and share repurchase.
M&amp;A as we have said before can be lumpy.
We do not have a budget around M&amp;A we talked to a lot of people but we do not do many deals so from that standpoint we have done about $400 million of M&amp;A through the first two quarters of this year which is similar to the pace that we had last year but I could not tell you what the back half of the year is going to look like.
What I can say is the pipeline looks about like it did over the last several years not much higher not much lower but the conversations are kind of continuing.
Then you look at dividends we are very happy that we recently raised our dividend 11%.
That is our second consecutive year of double-digit increases and that is one of the commitments we made at Investor Day.
Also what we said at Investor Day is that we intended to shrink our share count every year so we are very happy that this is our 13<sup>th</sup> straight quarter of buyback and the fixed-rate quarter that we have actually reduced our share count so that story continues.
What I could not say is whether we were going to keep the same pace of what we had in the first half of the year going out into the future not only in the back half but also beyond.
What I can say is that we will remain active in share repurchase that we will repurchase a meaningful amount of shares and that we will do that virtually every quarter over the course of time.
Mike did I leave you any room? I have got to say a very comprehensive answer.
I would only touch on two points that you already made Dan on cash.
We have worked through the last two years to get at our excess cash we have been reducing that we effectively reduced it and not just through the end of last year but through the first six months of this year which we obviously apply to share repurchase.
The second point I would just make with regard to the question with regard do we need any additional debt capacity or offerings over the second half of this year to reach the goals that we have set the answer is no.
We have been working over three years to re-craft our debt portfolio.
We really do not have anything meaningful renewing until 2017 so by reducing our cash and basically dealing with all the debts funding gives us an opportunity to manage our working capital needs with regard to commercial paper which we are doing more this year.
Now having said we do not need to go to the capital markets this year never say never.
We do not know when opportunities will present themselves but it is not a requirement.
Thank you so much for all of the answers.
Okay.
Thanks Kai.
Next question please.
Jay Gelb Barclays.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
With regard to the Willis-Towers Watson transaction my sense is typically that there is some level of dislocation of any two companies is going through a major merger.
I am wondering if that offers Marsh or Mercer the opportunity to perhaps pick up additional business or perhaps.
Thanks Jay.
We are not going to comment about Willis and Towers and that potential combination other than how it relates to us so you know the way we view it is how it relates to us is basically we are focused outside the shop in terms of growing our business serving clients getting new clients expanding our business and recruiting people strategically.
We are doing all of those things.
When I think about our company overall this is very much a people business.
In my view not just in RIS but across Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies we really are a talent magnet.
We have a caliber of people that is quite high smart creative committed people.
You know what we have found over time is smart creative committed people like working with smart creative and committed people so we are doing meaningful work for clients here work that is interesting and it is impactful.
I mean you can pick up a newspaper any day and look at various articles in that newspaper and it is like Marsh &amp; McLennan is all over those kind of issues and challenges that our clients are facing so I also think we benefit frankly particularly in the RIS segment from a proven leadership team that is from the business you know that that grew up in the business that understand the nuances of the business and I expected that that will reap benefits or Marsh &amp; McLennan on the client side over a long stretch of time.
That is helpful.
Thanks Dan.
My separate question is on the third quarter boost from investment income.
If that is $26 million pre-tax in the third quarter I think that work starts around $0.03 to $0.04 a share after-tax.
Was that inclusive of your initial of your view that EPS growth will be stronger in the back half and also the ability to get high single-digit EPS growth for the full-year or will that additional revenue that $26 million would that be essentially offset by reinvestments in the business.
I am just trying to get a perspective of whether that investment income boost was taken into account in terms of your ability to generate the high single-digit EPS growth this year.
I think what you have to first do is look back at last year because it is really not much of a boost.
It is pretty consistent with the investment income that we earned in the third quarter of 2014.
From that standpoint it does not really do much for our EPS growth when compared to last year because if we did not have it then it would be an additional headwind that we would have to make up.
In terms of your question about do we need that to get to high single-digit it is kind of too early for us to tell.
I am glad we have it but ultimately we feel very comfortable with kind of the high single-digit basis of how we expect to achieve the year but Mike you have got something to add? Yes.
The one thing I would add and Jay a very good question with regard to headwinds.
As we indicated in our scripts the headwinds now that we are facing for the totality of the year has been from $0.30 to $0.32 but actually in the second half of the year it increases by $0.03 so you can also hear from our statements that we have not backed away from any of the earlier guidance that we gave with regard to how we think the year looks in the second half of the year so that basically says that we can absorb an additional $0.03 of headwinds.
By the way with regard to the amount of investment income coming in the quarter you said could it be $0.03 or $0.04.
I think it is more like $0.03.
I appreciate that Mike.
It is probably worth noting as well that that FX headwind this year is probably a 10% headwind to EPS growth right? Yes.
If you look at EPS on year-to-date basis we have grown 6% but if you looked on a constant currency basis we would be 12% or 13%.
If you factor that in terms of our view of being able to grow in the high single-digit on a constant currency that would put you in that 13% 14% area on a constant currency EPS growth.
Make sense.
Thank you.
Okay.
Next question please.
Sarah DeWitt JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On Guy Carpenter could you talk about what drove the decline in organic growth this quarter? Given the challenging reinsurance market condition do you think you can still grow organically in this business going forward in the near-term to medium-term? Sure.
Alex you want to take that? I have stated in the last call that we thought that the second quarter will be clunky and difficult.
I would kind of look at the year-to-date and they say that we are flat.
I still believe that we will finish flattish for the year.
Luckily know we have been working on diversifying our portfolio for quite a while now through segmentation by client size by an appetite also through product so we have a pretty robust portfolio spread across different geographies as well as through different client type.
I am still optimistic that it is a good business and we are the employer of choice.
We have a list of people who want to come and join us.
We have had some good wins recently the pipeline looks good going forward.
Also I take comfort from the fact that the U.S.
is showing good results.
I am cautiously confidence that we will be in good shape.
Thanks.
Sarah any other question? No.
Thank you for the answer.
Okay.
Thank You.
Next question operator.
Josh Shanker Deutsche Bank Yes.
Good morning everyone.
I am wondering if we can talk a little about the next year outlook Oliver Wyman and where are you seeing growth and where you are seeing some maybe moderation? Okay.
Let me just make one comment before I hand it over to Scott because I am actually very pleased with Oliver Wyman's growth performance this quarter.
When you think about whether it is coming on top of last year.
I mean in the second quarter they grew 3%.
They grew 17% in the second quarter of 2014 so it is showing quite a bit of strength in Oliver Wyman but Scott you want to talk a little bit about the outlook? Sure.
Josh we are very happy with the business at the moment.
We think over the medium-term we are still targeting mid to high single-digit growth.
We think all the fundamentals are in place and we are in a competitively good position.
We also think we should grow faster than MMC overall.
Given we are smaller we should be able to take market share more easily.
I think for 2015 overall given that we are growing off the back of the strong mid-teens growth from last year it could be a little lower than that guidance but the first half has been good at 5% and we see good prospects in the second half.
Any other question Josh? Is there a line of business that you can indulge us with a little bit? I mean how banking is doing and what not? Sure.
The first half of the year was pretty much strong across all sectors with a couple of exceptions and therefore different reasons.
Energy was slow for obvious reasons.
That industry is just under pressure.
Telecommunications was slow for similar although not quite as intent reasons and RFS business was slightly slower but it grew at more than 20% last year so they are just struggling to grow off the back that is still a fundamentally very strong business.
Then regionally I mean the U.S.
and our international markets so all of Asia Middle East Latin America are very strong and Europe is the one part of the portfolio which is a little weaker compared to the last year although we are already seeing some signs of that picking up.
Excellent and I wonder if we can sort of do the same sort of postmortem on a little bit of turbulence around Asia Pacific in the RIS segment.
Sure.
I think you are referring to Marsh within the segment because...
Yes.
Marsh.
Because they are actually Guy Carpenter did reasonably well in Asia-Pac in the quarter but Peter you want to give some color on Marsh? Yes.
Sure.
Asia Pacific we were not pleased with the flat growth.
Within the region Pacific was more responsible for that than Asia.
When I look at Pacific its economic slowdown some lower new business lower construction some pressure on pricing contributed to the results in the quarter.
Asia the underlying fundamentals are still strong.
I mean they had a very tough comparable year-over-year with having 15% organic growth in the second quarter 2014.
That was coupled with about 600 basis points of non-recurring business that was a delta in new business year-over-year so they had a real challenge and they still grew up.
Overall the margins are still strong in the region and I expect to have better performance if you look at the full-year and Asia-Pac is still a meaningful contributor to overall Marsh.
I do not mean to beat the dead horse in trying to think about things is 1Q or 2Q or maybe first half of 2015 totality is more indicative how we should think about things going forward? Yes.
I think when you look at the company in RIS specifically we still very much live in the 3% to 5% organic growth world.
Just a couple of reminders on the history of our performance if you look back at say 2012 RIS grew 7% in the first quarter followed by a 6 4 and 2 in the fourth quarter and I am sure it seemed to everybody like the world was coming to an end.
Then in the next nine quarters were 3% or better.
I do not think you can look at one quarter in this business as being indicative of what a trend looks like and we are comfortable going forward.
Clearly we are adding another headwind that we did not have so in terms of property and casualty pricing is under even more pressure than it was before.
In an overall sense that in some ways will get at least partially offset by better economic outlooks in many parts of the world other than say the commodity types of countries that Peter was referring to like Australia and Canada as examples but Peter do you have anything to add? Yes.
I just would suggest when we look at international we should look at the full-year heavily dominated by Continental Europe in the first quarter and we had some anomalies in the second so I think you have a much more accurate picture of what the growth rate is going to be if we look at the full-year.
The next question please? Ryan Tunis Credit Suisse.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I guess my first question is just more follow-up on the broker M&amp;A.
Two of your biggest competitors in the consulting side are now operating or will be operating at a lower tax rate and the recent merger Willis and Towers appears to at least have been partially motivated by tax.
Why should we not think of your higher tax rate as a competitive disadvantage in the consulting business? I think when you first look at it you have to look at it in overall company's profile and what its advantages are and what its disadvantages are.
One thing is in our review we would not change our strategic positioning with any other company in our space even with their tax advantage so we have to do things in our business to make up for the fact that U.S.
companies operate at a tax disadvantage relative to the rest of the world.
Now I take with a glimmer of hope the fact that if New York state and New York City can actually change the tax rate anything is possible in the future but ultimately it is something that we operate our business at a high performance level we will continue to do that we will not use the tax disadvantage that we have in certain areas as any kind of caveat or excuse to our performance.
We will continue to perform well in the marketplace over a long period of time and we certainly do not feel disadvantaged vis-à-vis any of our competitors.
That is helpful.
Then I guess my follow-up was just on health organic.
I guess this is the second quarter where there has been a little bit of a drag I guess from benefit admin.
That has made you guys come in a little bit below core.
I am wondering how long we should expect that to put pressure on that reported organic number of it is just sort of 2015-type event or this is a longer process? Julio do want to take that? Yes.
Sure.
Thank you for the question.
As you know when you make decisions that are associated with especially the ben admin business it does have some quarters before it runs itself through completely right? I would think if you look at the underlying growth that should be of big attention for folks like yourself and others.
Again if you back out the ben admin impact the underlying core growth of our business continues to be very healthy as expected similar to previous years.
You are likely to see these types of impact again can quarter-by-quarter as time goes because you make the right decisions as far as keeping your focus on both top-line and bottom-line so we will see how it goes as we continue to make those decisions with clients.
Remember that clients come up for renewal and we have conversations.
Generally speaking we land in a good place where both of us see it as a win-win.
In some cases we do not so it is not as predictable as you would like it to be.
Thanks so much.
Next question please? Elyse Greenspan Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just quickly on the headwind of $0.07 that you pointed to in the Q2.
Is there any way that we can get the impact between both currency and pension as well as just the impact on each of the two segments? Mike you want to take that? Yes.
Roughly it works out to about $60 million of NOI headwinds.
Within that it would be a little bit higher in FX and a little bit lower on the average in the net retirement plans.
Okay.
Then in terms of the breakdown between RIS and Consulting? Like we said on the script the overall impact in the second quarter was felt more in RIS than it was in consulting.
With regard to the magnitude I would say within $5 million $7 million between the two segments but then we expect that to flip for the second half of the year.
Consulting we really feel more the broader the headwinds which is another reason why Dan continues to say that the margins and the growth in the different segment are better when you look at how we deal with these headwinds year-to-date.
As the management team we are cognizant of these headwinds and we make management decisions throughout the year aware of that so that is why we keep pointing people to the year-to-date.
Okay.
Thank you.
Then in terms of Mercer Marketplace as we had towards next year's enrollment season just any update Julio that you can give on the conversations that you are having with companies surrounding moving over to your exchange.
Then also do you expect there to maybe be fallout and some opportunities associated with the merger that Towers Watson is going through? Thank you.
You are welcome.
Yes.
I want to first just generally comment about the potential merger of our two competitors.
First things we know the firms pretty well.
Of course they are good competitors.
From our perspective we are going to continue to execute our strategy and our strategy is to stay focused on the things that already are working for us and even have more focus on the things that are beginning to pick up pace things like Mercer Marketplace our international expansion of global footprint with our global clients and of course our investments business continues to do well and we continue to invest in those things.
These are actions that we control of course.
If anything these things kind of just pinpoint your focus even that much more in terms of really being able to execute the pace and intensity.
Having said that a little bit on the exchanges as you know we reported last in October about our exchange results and you are pretty familiar with those as it is.
Some additional color that might be helpful to you is that there is a lot of discussion around fully insured versus self-insured and we are seeing a trend that basically shows that there is more clients now going self-insured than we had seen in our first 60 or so clients that they went first to Mercer Marketplace as far as the DC DB distribution.
About two-thirds of the DB one-third is DC.
As you know we are still in the active season.
Right now we are moving more towards implementation execution delivering to our client but there is also the off cycle opportunities that we have especially in the middle market that we continue to work through.
Our focus is to continue to sell the value proposition of Mercer Marketplace continue to be able to increase our pipeline talk to our clients about any concerns as they have especially as we think about the Cadillac tax coming up in 2018 or as I call the previous tax as I they really do believe that it affects much more than what people may believe.
We believe that somewhere in the first in 2018 if nothing is done some somewhere about 30% to 40% of clients may be able to Cadillac tax so there is a lot of discussion going on there.
Although Mercer Marketplace or exchanges are not the silver bullet to deal with the Cadillac tax it certainly allows for flexibility for you to be able to implement certain actions against something like a Cadillac tax.
Overall we are pleased pipeline is strong and we will continue to focus on delivering to our clients.
Thanks Elyse.
Operator I think we have time for one or two more questions if we go reasonably rapidly so… Brian Meredith UBS.
Yes.
Thanks.
I just got a quick one here Dan.
Okay.
On your Guy Carpenter and the reinsurance just curious a couple of senior hires that you have made of late obviously Peter Hearn and a couple of others.
Are those hires - because maybe you see kind of bottoming out here or in the reinsurance growth area some demand picking up or is there some other reasons why you have decided to add talent at this point? Well I would start by saying no.
We are not recruiting strategically because we see a bottoming and reinsurance.
We are recruiting strategically because we can.
I think this is a situation where we are committed to the reinsurance business it is a tough environment right now but in a lot of ways using our strength in that kind of environment to build our capabilities and our talent is opportunistic and we certainly are looking broadly.
Even though with Peter Hearn we hired from one competitor.
It is not that we are just looking to add talent from a single competitor.
We are actually doubling down in our reinsurance business and looking to add talent this year and next year as we invest through the cycle.
I am just curious why now? Yes.
I think it is more opportunity than anything else.
I mean let me talk a little bit about our RIS structural changes.
Then I think we can call it day from there because I think it is all part and parcel of the way we view the market.
I mean to us the RIS world is changing.
How much is secular and permanent and how much is cyclical is unclear but what is clear is that we are in active period of consolidation it is a softening market there is certain of the larger insurance companies are retaining more risk there has certainly been an increase in alternative capital and an increase in alternative has to capital.
There has also been an increase in the facilities program specialty placement and an increase in the increased need for analytics so you put all of those things together and I do not think there is a company better positioned in the world than Marsh &amp; McLennan to take advantage of that volatility and uncertainty that exists in the market.
We are in a terrific position in terms of being able to invest despite some headwinds and we have no doubt that over time that turns around and some of those headwinds become tailwinds.
We are very excited about our new structure in RIS.
I think it gives us the opportunity to get specialist whether it is placement specialist program designed specialist analytics perfect professionals collaborating more between Guy Carpenter and Marsh they will help us promote growth help us avoid cost duplication and it is certainly utilizes the talents of our executive team most effectively.
For a whole variety of reasons we view this as a good time to be an investor in this business.
I will just end by saying that we are optimistic not only for the back half of this year where we expect to have solid performance but also as we look to next year we have been working hard this year to make sure that if FX and interest rates are about where they are today that even though those headwinds would continue to exist we take steps to improve our business and to have a good EPS performance next year so we are quite optimistic where we sit today.
With that I think it is time to end the call operator.
I would just like to thank everyone for joining us this morning and specifically I would like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication and serving them.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies' conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Third quarter 2015 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available on the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events or results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risk and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's most recent SEC filings which are available on the MMC website for additional information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today.
I'll now turn over the conference to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter results.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Joining me on the call today is Mike Bischoff our CFO; and our operating companies' CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh; Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter; Julio Portalatin of Mercer; and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh of Investor Relations.
I am pleased with our results for both the third quarter and nine months.
Over these periods we produced underlying revenue growth across all operating companies along with higher adjusted operating income and margin expansion in both segments.
For the nine months adjusted EPS rose 8%.
We continue to execute and grow in a challenging macro environment.
As a global growth company we are not immune to the effects of modest global GDP growth low interest rates a strong U.S.
dollar or the slowdown in emerging economies.
Despite this environment we are on track for 2015 to be the sixth consecutive year that we have generated underlying revenue growth of at least 3%.
We have several attributes which make us optimistic about our ability to generate good long-term revenue growth.
We have a vast geographic footprint in all of our businesses especially RIS.
This gives us the balance to benefit from varying levels of global growth.
In most years global premiums tend to rise despite negative pricing trends.
In addition we view risk as a growth business.
Increasing exposures from new emerging risk globalization and economic uncertainty create volatility and disruption.
Our clients' need for advice and services is only rising.
We are able to meet these needs through the quality and depth of our colleague base and our collaborative and cohesive culture.
This underpins our consistent long-term revenue growth both organic and acquired at RIS.
In addition we are well positioned to benefit from favorable long term global trends in consulting.
At Mercer the need for advice around issues of health wealth and career are increasing.
Mercer is a trusted advisor serving clients and their more than 110 million employees in over 100 countries.
Oliver Wyman provides deep industry knowledge and strategic expertise to their clients around issues of growth change and efficiency.
We also use capital management to drive growth.
Through nine months we have already exceeded the $2.3 billion of capital deployed for acquisitions dividends and buybacks for all of 2014.
The primary sources of this capital have been increasing levels of operating cash flow and using our balance sheet.
In 2015 we raised $1.1 billion of incremental debt and we continue to work down cash balances.
While capital utilization has been substantial we have maintained balance sheet flexibility which we believe is prudent.
We manage for the long-term and reinvestment is a constant.
We invest through cycles and preserve our ability to take advantage of periods of dislocation to invest in our colleagues and capabilities add to our talent base and make acquisitions.
This balanced strategy has served us well as evidenced by our ability to deliver in a variety of market environments.
Now let's turn to our results.
In the third quarter we produced underlying revenue growth of 4% 6% growth in adjusted operating income a 100 basis point rise in our adjusted operating margin to 15.6% our highest third-quarter margin in more than a decade and 13% growth in adjusted EPS.
Through nine months underlying revenue rose 3% adjusted operating income was up 5% the margin expanded 120 basis points and adjusted EPS increased 8%.
For Risk and Insurance Services revenue in the third quarter was $1.6 billion with underlying growth of 2% adjusted operating income grew 3% and the margin increased 70 basis points to 15.7%.
Through nine months underlying revenue growth was 2% adjusted operating income rose 4% to $1.2 billion and the margin increased 130 basis points to 24.1% the highest in over a decade.
This margin improvement continues a march we have been on since 2007 when adjusted margins in the RIS segment were at their lowest.
At Marsh revenue in the third quarter was $1.3 billion with underlying growth of 2%.
The U.S./Canada division grew 2% led by Marsh and McLennan Agency.
The MMA strategy has been very successful.
Since 2009 MMA has made approximately 50 acquisitions with annualized revenues approaching $900 million.
In our International division the increase was also 2% reflecting modest growth in EMEA and Asia-Pacific and a 6% increase in Latin America.
In September Marsh announced its intention to acquire U.K.-based insurance broker Jelf Group.
This aligns with Marsh's strategy to expand globally in the SME space.
We expect the transaction to close within the next several months.
With the recent acquisition of Dovetail Marsh continues to broaden its services in the small commercial segment.
Dovetail's flexible and scalable technology offers agents access to online real-time quoting and binding from multiple insurance providers.
Through nine months Marsh's underlying revenue was up 3% reflecting growth of 3% in U.S./Canada and 2% in the International division.
Guy Carpenter's revenue was $261 million in the third quarter an increase of 2% on an underlying basis and 1% through nine months.
This was a reasonable result considering the significant rate reductions in many lines.
The U.S.
and EMEA were areas of strength driven by strong retention rates and new business wins in treaty.
Moving to Consulting revenue was $1.5 billion in the third quarter reflecting strong underlying growth of 6%.
Adjusted operating income increased 4% to $285 million.
The adjusted operating margin expanded 70 basis points to 18.5% the 15th consecutive quarterly increase.
Similar to RIS consulting has a record of achieving higher adjusted operating margins in recent years.
The improvement has been at least 150 basis points in each of the past three years and with additional expansion so far in 2015 the third quarter margin was the highest in over 30 years.
Through nine months underlying revenue growth was 5% adjusted operating income increased 4% and the margin expanded 90 basis points to 17.5%.
Mercer's revenue was $1.1 billion in the third quarter reflecting an underlying increase of 5%.
Revenue growth was achieved across all three of Mercer's major geographies – North America Euro-Pac and growth markets.
Mercer's growth was broad-based with investments talent and health each growing 6%.
Retirement rose 2%.
Investments continued its long-term positive performance.
AUM increased to $138 billion as new client assets more than offset market and FX pressure.
Talent once again performed well.
It generated its fourth consecutive quarter of growth driven by its seasonally strong survey business and increased demand for project consultancy work.
Mercer recently announced a strategic alliance with Transamerica which will acquire Mercer's U.S.
defined contribution record-keeping business.
Mercer continues to directly serve client benefit administration needs in both the defined benefit and health businesses.
The Transamerica alliance enables an integrated total benefit outsourcing solution.
Health continues to benefit from Mercer Marketplace despite lower growth in our administration business as we execute our strategy to improve profitability.
Earlier this month we issued an update on the progress of Mercer Marketplace.
In total the exchange now serves over 700 000 employees and retirees and provides exchange access for an anticipated 1.5 million lives an increase of 43% compared with last year.
We are pleased with the continuing growth of Mercer Marketplace although we would highlight we do not expect it to contribute to earnings in 2016.
Oliver Wyman's revenue in the third quarter was $450 million reflecting strong underlying growth of 9%.
Through nine months we are pleased with Oliver Wyman's underlying revenue growth of 6% which builds on growth of 15% in the same period last year.
The nine months' performance reflected revenue growth in all practice groups and business units.
In summary we are pleased with our third quarter and nine months' results as we continue to execute well.
For the full year we expect to deliver underlying revenue growth margin expansion in both operating segments and high single-digit EPS growth.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter we delivered underlying revenue growth in each of our operating companies.
Both segments generated adjusted operating income growth with margin expansion.
GAAP EPS rose 13% and adjusted EPS increased 13% as well.
Considering the macro headwinds we are facing and our mitigation activities we believe you get a clearer picture of earnings growth and margin improvement by gearing our results on a year-to-date basis.
Our financial results through nine months show adjusted operating income increased 5% to $1.9 billion the adjusted operating margin expanded from 18.5% to 19.7% with RIS expanding 130 basis points and consulting increasing 90 basis points.
Both GAAP and adjusted EPS increased 8% indicative of our progress this year.
Our results are being impacted significantly by the strength of the U.S.
dollar against major currencies especially the Euro.
And in the second half of the year the dollar has continued to strength against the Canadian and Australian dollar and the currencies of most emerging markets.
At the beginning of the year we estimated the negative impact to EPS from foreign exchange would be approximately $0.15 per share the highest level in MMC's history.
We now estimate the full-year impact will be $0.18 per share – $0.06 in the first quarter $0.04 in the second $0.03 in the third and we now expect a $0.05 impact in the fourth quarter.
We recently changed the structure of our U.S.
defined benefit plan by dividing it into two separate plans one that includes active colleagues and a second that includes inactives which account for about 70% of U.S.
plan participants both retiree and terminated vested.
This structure better positions MMC to take advantage of derisking opportunities in the future such as voluntary lump sum offers and annuity purchases.
This change has no effect on the future benefits earned by our U.S.
colleagues or the benefits previously earned by former colleagues.
We are using a longer amortization period for the inactive plan which will lower annual pension expense although the benefit this year is modest.
Many factors go into determining our pension expense: assumptions for mortality changes asset performance and the discount rate to name a few.
As we typically do each year we will provide an outlook for MMC's retirement plan expense on our fourth quarter earnings call in February after the year-end measurement.
While it is too early to give an estimate for next year based upon the variety of factors we are looking at today we believe the company is well-positioned to offset any retirement expense headwind we could face in 2016.
Investment income.
Trident III which was created in 2003 sold its last two investments in the third quarter.
As a result MMC's carried interest is no longer subject to clawback.
In the third quarter the $34 million of investment income primarily came from Trident III.
For the nine months investment income was $39 million a slight increase from $37 million last year.
MMC's private equity portfolio is $85 million which should generate only modest investment income on an annual basis.
Total debt was $4.5 billion at the end of the third quarter.
We took advantage of favorable credit market conditions by pulling forward the debt issuance we had contemplated for the first quarter of next year.
Also influencing this decision was our robust acquisition pipeline and we wanted to take advantage of the decline in the equity markets to repurchase our shares at attractive prices.
The $600 million senior note issued in September has an interest rate of 3.75% and will mature in 2026.
We've been restructuring our debt portfolio the last several years and have reduced our average interest rate from 5.6% to 3.5%.
Our annual interest expense in 2011 was $200 million with $3 billion of debt outstanding.
Today with $4.5 billion of debt our annual interest expense would approximately $175 million.
We have reduced our refinancing risk by spreading out maturities over a number of years.
For example the next bond repayment of $250 million is not due until April of 2017.
The debt is supported by a significantly higher level of operating earnings.
The company is in a strong financial position today.
Over the last few years we have used our balance sheet while maintaining flexibility to take advantage of growth opportunities.
The recent volatility in the equity markets allowed us to pull forward a portion of our share repurchases planned for the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year.
We repurchased 9.9 million shares in the third quarter for $550 million and over the first nine months we repurchased 23.4 million shares for $1.3 billion.
Our tax rates fluctuates quarter-to-quarter reflecting the geographic mix of earnings tax settlements completion of open tax years and changes in international and local rates.
For the third quarter our adjusted tax rate was 28.4%.
This represents an underlying tax rate of 29.5% and a slight benefit related to filing our 2014 federal tax return in September.
For modeling purposes based on the current landscape it would be reasonable to assume a tax rate of 29.5% in the fourth quarter and 29% for 2016.
Our cash at the end of the third quarter was $1.3 billion with $445 million in the U.S.
Uses of cash in the third quarter included $165 million for dividends $190 million for acquisitions and $550 million for share repurchases.
Through nine months uses of cash included $470 million for dividends $590 million for acquisitions and adjustments and $1.3 billion for share repurchases.
At our Investor Day in March 2014 we made two commitments concerning returning capital to shareholders: one double-digit annual dividend increases; and two a reduction in our share count each year.
We are delivering on these commitments for 2015 as we did in 2014.
Our annual dividend increased 11.3% this year after increasing 10.4% last year.
Our share count will decline for the second straight year.
In fact shares outstanding has declined by 27 million shares since Investor Day.
Capital deployed for share repurchases dividends and acquisitions was $1.2 billion for 2013.
In 2014 capital deployed almost doubled to $2.3 billion; and through the first nine months of this year totaled $2.4 billion.
Our robust capital management has been supported by strong operating cash flows the deployment of excess cash and increased debt.
With that I am happy to turn it back to Dan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Mike.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I would like to make a few comments about our recently announced CFO transition.
Mark McGivney will become MMC's Chief Financial Officer at the start of 2016.
Over the past year in his current position as Senior Vice-President of MMC Corporate Finance Mark worked closely with Mike and me in developing and executing our financial strategy.
Mark also has a very strong operational background and becomes the first MMC Chief Financial Officer to have served as CFO of both Marsh and Mercer.
Mark was CFO at Marsh from 2007 to 2011 where he was a key member of my leadership team and oversaw substantial restructuring actions and operational improvements that re-established Marsh's profitability.
From 2011 to 2014 Mark was CFO and Chief Operating Officer of Mercer where he worked closely with Julio to drive strong improvement at Mercer.
Welcome Mark.
We look forward to hearing from you on next quarter's earnings call.
I would also like to say a few words about Mike and to take a moment to recognize the many contributions he has made to Marsh and McLennan Companies over the past 34 years the last three-and-a-half as Chief Financial Officer.
Mike has worked tirelessly and creatively on an array of complex issues in leading our finance colleagues around the globe.
By always demonstrating tremendous skill knowledge and judgment Mike leaves a legacy of extraordinary professionalism commitment and dedication for us to build upon in the future.
I am pleased that Mike will serve as a part-time senior advisor to MMC through the first quarter of 2016.
On behalf of the 58 000 colleagues at Marsh and McLennan Companies around the world I would like to say thank you Mike for your outstanding service.
Operator we are ready to begin Q&amp;A.
We'll have our first question from Dan Farrell Piper Jaffray.
Thank you and good morning.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the brokerage organic specifically in Marsh we're seeing a little slowdown in both the U.S.
and internationally? Could you give us a little more color in terms of sort of headwinds from both pricing and exposure? And then could you talk about your abilities to offset that with net new business and how much you think you can offset further headwinds? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I think because much of the impact on our revenue as a company relates to some macro factors like GDP or the P&amp;C cycle maybe it would be a good idea for me to give just a very brief comment and then just go around the horn and have each of our operating companies give an assessment as to how they're – what they're looking at today and as they look forward – for revenue growth.
And so I'm pretty pleased because despite macro headwinds as I mentioned from GDP property and casualty rate and some tough comps MMC grew revenue by 4%.
And year-to-date revenue growth underlying is up 3% versus the prior year-to-date at 5%.
So I feel pretty good about where we are and I'm confident that we remain in the 3% to 5% underlying revenue growth zone as an overall company.
But Peter do you want to start with Marsh? LLC Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
It's probably helpful to put a little context around the numbers for the quarter.
Compared to last year's quarter three again it was a 5% organic growth so it was going to be challenging for us; that was the highest underlying growth rate we've had in the past 12 quarters so it is a tough comparable year-over-year.
Some countries have been particularly challenged specifically in large commodity-based economies like Australia Canada Brazil even parts of Africa.
So those have been a little bit of a headwind.
And you mentioned pricing.
Pricing has been orderly but it has been coming off year-over-year and slightly from the second quarter to third quarter.
We have been undergoing several yield initiatives to offset some of the rate decreases and there's been some economic growth albeit slow in sales payroll total insured values.
So overall the 2% is not what we believe will be our medium- and long-term growth rates.
But overall when I look at the core underlying parts of the business new business client retention is very strong.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Peter.
Alex? Guy Carpenter &amp; Company LLC Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
The headwinds in the reinsurance area are well known have been discussed I guess pretty much over the last three or four years.
But we've continued to be able to grow.
I said at the beginning of the year that some quarters might be clunky but at the end of the day we are still feeling fairly positive.
The pipeline remains good.
We're benefiting from segmentation and specialization.
Shares have actually grown with the mid- to larger-sized insurance companies as they find our how good our teams are how useful our tools are and how sophisticated our solutions are.
So we're still looking in growth mode.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So that takes care of RIS.
Why don't we spend a little time on consulting so Julio you want to talk to us about revenue growth? Mercer LLC </span></strong> Thanks Dan.
First I'd like to just start off by saying that we were pretty pleased with the solid revenue growth that we had and demonstrated in the third quarter.
I was particularly pleased with the balance of that growth across our LOBs [lines of business].
And you know we have a habit now of quarter after quarter finding a way to continue to have that spread between revenue growth and expenses so of course our margin continues to also improve.
We've entered into a strategic alliance with Transamerica which we think is going to be good for our clients good for our going forward.
And it continues to reinforce as we've talked about in the past dis-investing in some of our non-core as we continue to invest in our core for growth into the future.
Things like bolstering our talent business investing in things like building Mercer Marketplace and expanding our solutions even further in things like Workday with implementation capabilities Jeitosa et cetera.
And expanding also our European investment capabilities which has shown up in some of the improvement that we've had in assets under management going to $1.38 billion this particular quarter.
So our investments have been well-calculated.
We continue to look for opportunities to accelerate our growth into the future by increasing footprint across the globe and doing other things.
So we're pretty optimistic about how we can continue to generate growth at Mercer.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And just rounding it all out Scott.
Oliver Wyman Group Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Dan Oliver Wyman had a good quarter and year-to-date we've had strong growth across most sectors.
In the nine months all of financial services health actuarial Lippincott and NERA grew more than 7%.
And in any annual period we continue to target growth planned at the range for MMC that Dan highlighted so say 5% or better driven by continued growth in the demand for high quality consulting as well as our ability to take share from competitors.
It is important to keep in mind though that given the nature of much of our business which is large lumpy consulting projects there'll certainly be volatility around that target from quarter-to-quarter.
But overall the business is in good shape and getting better so we expect to be able to continue to grow.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So tanks.
Dan I know that was an overall long question but I figured revenue was likely to be on several people's minds so we wanted to cover it broadly.
Do you have any other question? No that's helpful detail across all the segments.
Thank you and Mike all the best to you going forward.
Thanks Dan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Next question please.
Ryan Tunis Credit Suisse.
Hey thanks good morning.
I guess my first question is for Mike and it's on the U.S.
benefit plan I guess some of the optionality you've maybe created there.
And you mentioned lump sums and perhaps some other alternatives.
It sounds like to me that would probably eliminate some of the interest rate sensitivity you've seen around the pension expense and also maybe mitigate it.
I just want to make sure I'm thinking about that correctly as a positive.
And I guess I don't want to call it a negative but presumably this would also come with a cost and would doing a lump sum or a close-out or that type of thing create a meaningful near-term use of cash? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start Ryan and then I'll hand over to Mike.
I think it's too premature to consider the cost of buyouts et cetera because we haven't determined yet whether we would offer a discount if any to the actual carrying costs that we have for those benefits.
And so we're at the early stages of working through those issues.
We think that structurally setting up the two plans make it easier for us to address things like annuity buyouts and lump sum arrangements in an overall derisking effort for our inactives.
But overall I'll hand to Mike to see if he's got additional color.
So Mike? Dan you're exactly right.
It takes a lot of time and effort at different stages to go through in looking at any major or substantial change to a defined benefit program.
So we've actually been looking at the changes that may be inherent in the U.S.
DB plan for a number of years did the administrative work and then implemented the change to basically separate the DB plan into two separate plans one active and one inactive.
As Dan indicated this is just a step along the road and we haven't made a decision on the timing of when to offer lump sum buyouts or annuity purchases.
This will come in the future.
The other thing that Ryan I would just put into context for you the U.S.
is our second largest plan.
The U.K.
is by far our largest plan and then after the U.S.
is followed by Canada and Ireland.
We actually made some changes in Ireland as well.
So this is more of a long-term philosophical approach to organize all of our plans on a geographic basis but do it within a common umbrella that Dan and the management team have established.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess just shifting gears to exchanges.
I think you mentioned that next year despite 40% plus enrollee growth not expected to be a contributor to earnings.
And I guess just to get a better understanding of how that's impacting consulting margins how does that roughly compare to the contribution of exchanges this year to the bottom line? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll start with that and then I'll hand it over to Julio.
I think the important thing to note is when we're looking at our exchange the most important thing to us now is creating a platform and a framework for us to handle a lot of lives and to grow on a rapid but pretty consistent basis for many years to come.
And so it really is all about creating the right quality organization.
And I was quite pleased when I saw some of the survey data from clients of ours who've used our call center and their satisfaction levels which were in the upper 90%'s and were even an improvement on last year.
But you know for us in early stages you have to look at this as really a startup organization in some ways.
And from that perspective it's not going to be meaningful to earnings at least on a MMC basis for quite a while.
And so I just specifically wanted us to comment on it because I see some notes from time to time out there which just seemed to me that some folks might be getting ahead of themselves a little bit and so we wanted to make some specific comments.
But Julio do you want to add to that? Mercer LLC </span></strong> Not too much more to add Dan.
I think that was well answered.
But in the context of overall MMC $13 billion revenue and then you think about the approximate $4.4 billion of revenue of Mercer and then you think about the $1.5 billion global revenue we have in H&amp;B in context this is clearly a growth strategy for us.
And we are wearing the results within the P&amp;L results of Mercer.
And we will continue to do that and I think that we have demonstrated that we can manage that in the context of the improvements that we've had in our margin over the last several years now.
So we'll continue to do that in time-and-time.
And by the way there are other things we invest in too that we also wear inside the Mercer results and we'll continue to do that as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's really a great position to be in to be able to deliver significant margin improvement in both RIS and in Consulting while we're investing in those businesses and while we're acquiring in those businesses and wearing higher amortization and deal costs et cetera et cetera.
Next question please.
Josh Shanker Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thank you.
So I don't want to turn this into an exchange conversation we've been through this before.
But if you just walk through the process – and I think we've been through it in some places – on a current customer if they choose to go onto your exchange where do you lose revenues? Where do you gain revenues? And how do we see that come through the P&amp;L? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Well a couple of things.
One half of the new clients that we had on the exchange this year were actually new H&amp;B clients from Mercer so that is an improvement over last year and shows the draw of the actual concept of an exchange.
As Julio has mentioned before our anticipation over a long period of time would be that when it's fully up and running at scale et cetera that the likely exchange type of margin would be similar to the H&amp;B margins that we have in a regular transaction; of course supplemented and supported by the voluntary benefits programs that we sell through the exchange.
And so overall I think it's way premature to even consider the margins.
This is off into the future in terms of what our expectations are.
And I can just tell you that when I look at overall Consulting margins I'm quite satisfied.
And for us the exchange is a growth opportunity rather than an earnings opportunity at this stage.
Do you have any other question Josh? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
So for those new – I'm just surprised I guess; not that it has to be significant – but of those new customers coming on aren't creating additional high-revenue margin ultimately.
It's always – the P&amp;L – we've been over this about two years I guess.
The P&amp;L seems in miss years (37:45) it seems like you are adding customers you've already invested in the systems I guess.
I'm just surprised – there doesn't have to be a big contribution – but I'm surprised it would be a flat-to-negative contributor on profitability I guess at this point.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would say a couple things to look at that.
One January 1 is the renewal date for the 2016 plans and so the statistics that Mercer released in their press release in October relate to 2016 and not to 2015.
And also this is a build-mode.
This is about acquiring clients marketing well serving clients well being able to handle large amounts of incoming.
And so it's not just-in-time inventory of people and capabilities.
I mean that will be more how it operates several years down the road.
But right now this is a build not a just add on.
Next question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Kai Pan Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Thank you.
And first congratulations to both Mike and Mark.
My first question is on the foreign exchange impact.
It looks like it's bigger than you anticipated at the beginning of the year.
If currencies stay the same as today do you see currency also a meaningful headwind for you to return to your 13% EPS long-term goal in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No.
So Kai when we look over periods of time like 10 years or 20 years within the company foreign exchange has been a wash.
And when we look at Marsh &amp; McLennan and our footprint around the world we are very much a global business and so foreign exchange is a part of our reported results.
And we've got to wear foreign exchange.
I think when you look back over the last few years we were wearing $0.03 $0.04 per year of foreign exchange headwind and we didn't whine about it.
We delivered 13%-plus EPS growth while wearing that kind of headwind.
This year is remarkable.
I mean the spike of the strengthening dollar in this year really caught everyone by surprise and was shocking in its ascent.
So in terms of this year there was just no way to operate the company in a proper way without pulling back expense levers incorrectly I would say.
But as we look forward if we look at next year if we return to the regular $0.03 or $0.04 $0.05 kind of headwind that we've had in past years it shouldn't disrupt our ability to get back to our strong levels of EPS growth that we've been used to.
I would just add for this year it's about a six points of EPS growth has been lost to foreign exchange and so the delivery of 8% year-to-date on EPS growth is in my view a remarkable achievement for the company.
Do you have anything else Kai? Yes.
Second question on capital management looks like you're already exceeding your $2.3 billion total capital management in 2014.
You mentioned that you're going to basically third quarter pulling forward fourth quarter and first quarter of next year buybacks.
I just wonder are we going to see a meaningful decrease in buybacks and overall if you think about your total capacity for capital returns is the $2.3 billion still a runway annual number or you still has some excess cash capacity including debt as well as excess cash position that could be on top of that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So as we outlined on Investor Day we anticipated that we were going to be returning higher levels of capital to shareholders because we knew that we would have higher cash flows from operations we were reducing cash on the balance sheet and we had declining calls on our cash and we also intended to increase our leverage while remaining prudent.
And right now our corporate debt to EBITDA is around 1.6 times so I would say it's well within the level that we're comfortable with.
And so this year for a variety of different reasons – acquisitions have run at least on a year-to-date basis a little bit higher than what we had been doing the past couple of years and last year was a pretty big year as well.
And so doing $2.4 billion through nine months with the anticipation of our transaction with Jelf which is already announced and should happen within the next two to three months combined with the idea that we pay out our bonuses in the first quarter and so we tend to be more cash light in the first quarter than in other quarters I would say that you will see less share buyback certainly in the fourth quarter and most likely in the first quarter as well than what we've done this year.
And when I look forward to next year I think that 2016 probably looks a little bit more like 2014 – $2.3 billion kind of number sounds about right for return of capital to shareholders.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Next question please.
Larry Greenberg Janney.
Thank you and good morning.
Just wondering if Alex could comment a little bit on the reinsurance market? Some have pointed to a reduction in third party capital this year into this sector and just the absolute level of prices in certain segments of the reinsurance business is maybe signaling that at least things aren't getting as bad on the margin and maybe we're about to trough out on where things are? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Alex you want to take that? Guy Carpenter &amp; Company LLC Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
So we calculate that is now about dedicated reinsurance capital of $400 billion of which $66 billion is collateralized and $334 billion is rated.
So more or less $66 billion or $60 billion of alternative capital that's come into the marketplace and clearly it's had its effect on rates and also on terms and conditions as the traditional reinsurers have tried to maintain market share.
Do we feel that it's troughing out? We certainly are seeing some signs – I wouldn't call hardening – I'd say less softening than we've seen in the past.
Frankly the collateralized products and traditional reinsurance products are pretty much at the same price right now sort of competing at the bottom perhaps.
So there are signs that it's harder to place business than it was a year ago but those are very very pale signs.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In a lot of ways Larry it's tougher to be a reinsurance capital provider than a reinsurance broker.
Because for us it's not about the premium per se it's about the value we create; and in tough environmental markets like this companies want and need advice and we're there to provide innovative solutions to help them cope with these difficult market conditions.
Great.
Thank you.
And I too want to congratulate Mike on just an outstanding career and best wishes in the future.
Ah thanks Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Next question please.
Sarah DeWitt JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
In the Consulting business it's been a great story in terms of strong organic growth and margin expansion.
Where do you think the margins in the Consulting business could head over time? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's a good question.
I start with an easy answer – higher than they are today – as I'm looking at Julio and Scott because they're the ones who have to deliver it on the ground.
But overall our margin story in Consulting has been pretty consistent over the last several years.
And when you look at Consulting overall as a division in 2012 they delivered 150 bps of growth; in 2013 160 bps; in 2014 160 bps and year-to-date 90 bps.
In a lot of ways our focus is more on earnings and growing our net operating income and that's how we're geared as a company and focusing on our output.
And margin in a lot of ways is one of those outputs.
We have an approach in the company in both Consulting and in RIS that revenue growth should almost always exceed expense growth.
And then when that doesn't happen we want it to be our choice; so we're making specific investment decisions in a quarter or two – and we call that being upside-down – and whenever we're upside-down we expect to get right-side up in the very near future and so we have a consistent approach.
But when we look at the work that we've done throughout our Consulting division in part it is a focus on a mix of business issue which favors our higher margin parts of the business.
But as I was saying earlier we are investing actively in things like MMX and others which pull down the margin of the Consulting division but we're making the right decisions about investing with today's money and today's earnings to drive better opportunities for us in the future.
Do you have another question Sarah? Yes.
Thanks.
And then just circling back on the private health exchanges how large does that business need to be in terms of lives before it becomes a contributor to earnings? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know if we even have that answer but I'm going to hand over to Julio because I think maybe a broader discussion around exchanges are in order.
And I say that I don't even know if we have the answer because I know I don't know the answer and I have not pressed the business for it because I think it's so premature.
At the end of the day our focus on the exchange is not earnings and hasn't been earnings over the last few years.
And so we're in a terrific position to be able to build the business without the pressure of delivering earnings today.
And so I think the overall focus of the leadership team on the exchange business is making sure we're positioned to capture the full opportunity over a multi-year basis.
But Julio do you want to add to it a bit? Mercer LLC </span></strong> Yeah.
Well Dan thank you.
Mercer Marketplace is certainly an important contributor to our growth in the health business and will continue to be so for some time to come.
We think that over time it will continue to be the type of business we want to invest in make sure that our clients have that option as we think through the strategies that they are thinking about for their benefits.
And that's a very important distinction right because we are trusted advisors; strategy-first discussions with many of our clients take place all the time.
And some have concluded that Mercer Marketplace is the right place for them to be able to maximize the desired outcome that they have for broader employee choice a quality colleague experience flexibility and savings.
That continues to be the case and we will continue to invest because it will give us that kind of revenue uplift.
And ultimately it's what our clients want.
If we end up with those discussions being this option we want to be there for them.
So as you know in total the exchange now serves over 700 000 employees and retirees and with a projected exchange access for an anticipated 1.5 million lives.
We're pretty pleased with that and we'll continue to invest.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I guess just to round out the question on earnings and why we're not focused on earnings.
Because in our overall size of company and overall earnings growth it just doesn't matter.
When something is not contributing to earnings the first year it does it contributes to earnings.
So what's that number look like? And then the year after that let's say it doubles its earnings for a couple years in a row.
It's still relative to our overall size of Mercer let alone the size of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies just not big enough to get the level of attention on earnings that it may generate.
But next question please? Vinay Misquith at Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning.
The first question is on margins and the RIS segment.
Those expanded about 130 basis points year-to-date this year.
Curious about how much you can expand margins when the organic growth slows to the 2% to 3% range given that we're at pretty high margins right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No it's a fair question.
And I would say that when we look at the company overall we're pretty satisfied with our margins.
But again we have a discipline about growing our revenue faster than growing our expenses and so we will consistently see margin expansion going out into the future.
It has not been a one or two or three year story in RIS with regard to margins.
We are in the eighth consecutive year of margin expansion in RIS.
And just as a reminder even though we were talking about margins in 2011 and 2012 about can you grow margins any more you've come so far since 2008? We grew RIS margins 120 bps in 2012 150 bps in 2013 30 bps last year we're at 130 bps year-to-date.
So we have demonstrated an ability over a long period of time of growing margins.
And where we sit today and obviously we don't control all the macro factors but we feel pretty comfortable that we will be able to expand margins into the future.
And certainly when we look at 2016 we would expect to see margin expansion in both segments.
But as we've said before margins are one of the last things we look about.
We think about our organic growth our level of organic investment to build a better company and support future levels of organic growth.
We look at our earnings and whether we're growing NOI and delivering value for our clients and shareholders on that score.
And then we look at margins; and margins to us is more of an outcome than anything else.
We would gladly give up a bit of margin for faster levels of organic growth and when we see those opportunities we'll take those opportunities.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the second question is around the debt.
You mentioned that you pulled forward some debt issuance from next year but your debt to EBITDA is only 1.6x.
Are you planning on raising more debt next year and keeping the leverage ratio the same next year versus this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'll hand it to Mike in a second but I would say yes we're at 1.6 but we were at 1.1.
So ultimately in the last – well if I just look at it from year-to-date last year how we finished the year – ultimately when we think about debt we've got $1.1 billion of more debt than we had at year-end of 2014 and $600 million less of cash.
So we obviously are flexing in different ways.
And we've had levels of corporate debt to EBITDA over the last 25 years everywhere from say a one two or three or three-and-a-quarter and within that range we would be comfortable depending on what factors were existing at that point in time.
So I wouldn't say that we're targeting 1.6 or any other corporate debt to EBITDA at this point in time.
We maintain a prudent approach.
And what I could say is that it would be unlikely that we would create more leverage only to buy back more shares but certainly other opportunities both organic and acquisition-related would be more likely that that would generate more leverage.
But Mike you want to add to that? Yeah Dan what I'll say – I would just add a few things.
We always look for balance on everything and so it's a balance with regard to leverage with regard to the growth opportunities we see.
But we don't begin by looking at it as just at leverage.
We look at the operating cash flows and the growth of the company and then we think okay what's a normalized level of debt to accompany the growth that we're looking at and those very strong operating cash flows? But the other thing we look at is really what is our refinancing risk and what's our liquidity? And as I indicated in my remarks we've spent really the better part of three-and-a-half years reshaping our debt maturity ladder so that we do not have any major towers coming against us in any one year and in fact over the next four or five years we have very small amounts of debt coming due.
And so we've created a situation where the debt maturity ladder is very nice which gives us a little bit more flexibility if an opportunity presents itself.
The other thing I would say is I kind of look at it as an interest expense budget so to speak and that's why we also talked about at $3 billion of debt a number of years ago our interest expense on an annual basis was about $200 million.
You look at the $4.5 billion today and it's actually less than $170 million but if you throw in the cost of commercial paper and the revolver that's why I said it's in the neighborhood of $170 million to $175 million.
So we look at it many different ways not just leverage but we think we have a lot of flexibility and if an opportunity presents itself in the future as Dan indicated we can take advantage of it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Next question operator? Elyse Greenspan Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
I just had one quick question first on the private healthcare exchanges.
I was wondering if you can break down the enrollment between those that chose the self- versus the fully-insured option.
And I guess how does that compare to what you saw last year as well as your expectations? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay thanks.
Julio do you want to take that? Mercer LLC </span></strong> Sure.
Thank you for the question.
In the fully insured and self-insured we're really not seeing people make conscious decisions to change from what they have traditionally already been implementing.
So if they were fully insured before they tend to stay fully insured and if they're self-insured they tend to stay self-insured.
So as an example I will show you that based on the clientele that we accumulated in our first year of 2014 it was 75% fully insured/25% self-insured and in 2015 it was 60% fully insured and 40% self-insured and in 2016 it's about the same: 57% fully insured and 43% self-insured.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
I think we have time for one more question operator.
Charles Sebaski BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the Marsh Agency business and how that has been a contributor to the margin expansion there and whether or not given the size being as you said $900 million in revenue now that we might be able to get to see that as a separate broken out line item given that $900 million kind of falls in the size of your other discrete line item businesses.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Charles I'm glad you got the last question because I had all the series of exchange questions for Julio and meanwhile we've got this $900 million business that we've invested in for the last seven years but Peter do you want to take that and talk a little bit about the Agency? LLC Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure and in terms of its contribution to margin as Dan mentioned in his opening comments we're wearing the amortization for the acquisition.
So while it is a contributor that is certainly going to be a headwind for the short run.
The revenue that we had mentioned on $900 million is the estimated annualized as we hit into next year so that's not what is actually being earned this year.
But if I step back Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency is hitting on all cylinders.
We have acquired the highest quality agencies across the United States now created substantial hubs within California and Texas.
Our pipeline is as strong as it's been for spokes and fold-ins so we'll be able to expand our business and be more dense in areas that we want to expand.
And its organic growth engine has been terrific this year and it's been very balanced.
We've had growth within property and casualty and employee health and benefits and believe that will continue.
So overall incredibly pleased with what we've acquired what we're building how they're coming together as a leadership team and we're very optimistic for the future.
How does pricing compare this year on – the pipeline you said is very strong – on what's going on relative to last year? It seems to be a very competitive market in that business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I would say overall I don't think it's very much different this year to last year it is a competitive market but I would say the difference is really when you look back four or five years ago the multiples were lower than they are today so it's very important for us to understand that.
One of our focuses is on quality and history of good performance and stability of the leadership team the chemistry all of those other factors become more important as we evaluate agencies versus each other and determine which ones should be a part of Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency.
It's also very important for us to really come to an understanding of what the EBITDA really is.
That may be even more important than multiple because these are largely all private companies and so there is a pro forma aspect of figuring out what EBITDA is and it takes some skill in determining what is ongoing EBITDA.
And so I think there may be some players out there that might get the multiple right but they get the EBITDA wrong.
We want to be right on both the EBITDA and the multiple.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> But I think that just about does it.
We've passed our one hour commitment.
And I'd like everyone for joining us this morning.
I'd particularly like to thank our clients for their support and our colleagues for their hard work and dedication in serving them.
I hope everyone has a very good day and let's go Mets.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Fourth quarter 2015 financial results and supplemental information were issued earlier this morning.
They are available at the company's website at www.mmc.com.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that remarks made today may include statements relating to future events and results which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and a variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
For a more detailed discussion of factors that cause could actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements made today please refer to our earnings release for this quarter and to our most recent SEC filings including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 all of which are available on the MMC website.
In addition during the call today we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted operating income adjusted operating margin and adjusted earnings per share.
For our discussion on these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures please refer to the schedule of our earnings release in this quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Shelan and good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss our fourth quarter results.
I'm Dan Glaser President and CEO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
I'm very pleased to welcome our new CFO Mark McGivney.
In addition to having a very strong operational background Mark becomes the first MMC Chief Financial Officer to have served both Marsh and Mercer as CFO.
Welcome Mark.
Joining me on the call today are the operating company CEOs: Peter Zaffino of Marsh Alex Moczarski of Guy Carpenter Julio Portalatin of Mercer and Scott McDonald of Oliver Wyman.
Also with us is Keith Walsh of Investor Relations.
It is difficult to accurately predict where the world is headed.
I recently return from Davos where ongoing global market volatility was a major point of discussion.
Our clients need advice now more than ever to navigate these uncertain times.
For Marsh &amp; McLennan opportunities are abundant to help our clients face the challenges of the day many of which revolve around risk strategy and people.
These challenges are highlighted in the Annual Global Risk Report produced by the World Economic Forum with the help of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
This Report explores the mounting and interconnected risks faced by corporations of all sizes as well as government entities and individuals.
Over the last several years the dialogue has evolved from mainly economic risks to include geopolitical societal and environmental concerns.
We certainly live in an age of risk.
According to the UN 2015 was characterized by social and political instability as some 60 million people were forcibly displaced the largest number in history.
Geopolitical tensions are also escalating between global and regional powers in places like Iran Saudi Arabia Syria Ukraine Korea and the South China Sea.
Market dislocations in China and drastic reductions in commodity prices have raised concerns about global growth and dented business confidence.
And financial markets are skeptical about the effectiveness of central banks given the limited tools at their disposal in a near zero interest rate environment.
Amidst this global uncertainty it is easy for companies to embrace self-fulfilling pessimism.
While we remain cautious on the global front we see several factors that are positive for Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
The developed world continues to post modest but steady GDP growth and improving employment rates.
And the emerging markets while volatile are a long-term driver of growth.
The demand for our services remains strong.
We are optimistic about our prospects for continued organic growth and our acquisition pipeline is in good shape.
Our fundamentals are rock solid.
We are stronger strategically operationally and financially than at any time in the past decade.
We have a deep understanding of our clients and the markets in which we operate.
We set challenging yet realistic objectives for our performance and we deliver on our commitments.
So let's review our performance in 2015.
We capped off the year with an outstanding fourth quarter posting our highest underlying revenue growth of 2015 at 5%.
This was our 11th consecutive quarter of at least 3% underlying revenue growth.
We also delivered 8% adjusted EPS growth driven by higher operating income with margin expansion in both the RIS and consulting segments.
In terms of our full-year performance MMC produced underlying revenue growth margin expansion in both segments and meaningful EPS growth.
Underlying revenue grew 4% representing our sixth consecutive year in the 3% to 5% growth range.
This was also our sixth consecutive year of margin expansion in both the RIS and consulting segments.
This expansion was balanced across the segments with Risk and Insurance Services rising 90 basis points to 23.3% and Consulting up 80 basis points to 17.3%.
On a consolidated basis the margin rose 100 basis points to 19.1% our highest level in 12 years.
Adjusted EPS increased 8% to a record $3.05 while absorbing $0.18 of negative FX impact.
Since 2009 our adjusted EPS has grown at a CAGR of 13.5% consistent with the 13% long-term target we set at Investor Day in 2010 and reaffirmed at Investor Day in March 2014.
This was accomplished despite approximately $200 million of FX headwinds during this six-year period a yearly average of $0.04 per share.
Before I discuss our view regarding 2016 I would like to spend a few moments on recent developments in the insurance industry.
There is a noticeable amount of change occurring at many insurance companies.
We have seen large-scale M&amp;A senior management changes a reduction in the underwriting appetite at several companies as well as a willingness at some firms to reconsider reinsurance as a way to reduce volatility.
These developments are not overly concerning to us or our clients since the changes do not relate to issues of financial strength or solvency.
In fact there are potential positive outcomes for MMC such as volatile markets could result in a flight to quality as clients seek brokers who have a depth of experience and capability.
Clients may lean even more toward their broker to assess and recommend markets.
More underwriting discipline may come to the market.
This is really hard to call; it is just as likely to create more competition in the short term.
And high quality underwriting talent is becoming more dispersed.
This could lead to a prolonged healthy competitive market with higher levels of innovation new product offerings and improved service.
Now turning to 2016.
For the year we expect to grow underlying revenue expand margins deliver strong growth in adjusted EPS and return meaningful capital to shareholders.
Starting with organic revenue growth one of the key strengths of MMC is the diversity of our geographic footprint.
It is an important driver of our long-term growth.
The developing world should grow faster over the longer term owing to generally higher levels of GDP growth under-penetration of insurance and the ability to sell more of our consulting services globally.
However these countries have been experiencing more volatility recently with many impacted by declines in commodity prices.
While there is concern about the emerging world and the overall strength of the global economy the U.S.
and UK continued to perform relatively well.
These two countries represent our largest geographies providing stability to our revenue.
On a consolidated basis over the last six years we have grown underlying revenue in a range of 3% to 5% and we view this range as the likely outcome for 2016.
Underpinning our revenue has been low-single digit GDP growth and benign inflation in the developed world with modestly better growth in the emerging markets.
In addition we anticipate low-single digit global P&amp;C premium growth as increases in insured values and other exposures should offset the effects of rate reductions.
Turning to margins we have just concluded our eighth consecutive year of margin expansion.
Over this period our adjusted operating margin has improved more than 1 000 basis points to 19.1%.
As we have said many times we do not have a margin target.
We view margin expansion as a natural outcome of managing a business properly to grow revenue and earnings.
We are disciplined around managing our annual expense growth in line with revenue growth and maintain flexibility to adjust accordingly.
While it is conceivable expense growth may exceed revenue growth in a given quarter we would not expect this to occur for a full year.
So as we look at 2016 we expect to deliver margin expansion in both segments for the seventh consecutive year.
Moving to EPS growth 2015 was an unprecedented year for FX.
We posted 8% adjusted EPS growth or 14.5% on a constant currency basis.
If foreign exchange rates remain at their current levels we anticipate about $0.07 per share of adverse currency impact in 2016 less than half of what we saw last year.
Given our current view of FX and global macroeconomic conditions we expect strong EPS growth in 2016 at a level approaching our long-term target.
Turning to capital management.
We are a cash business.
As we produce high levels of earnings growth our cash flows should grow at a similar rate.
We will continue to deploy capital in excess of our free cash flow.
We expect to increase debt balances each year as earnings growth increases our debt capacity.
As mentioned on our last earnings call we anticipate capital deployed in 2016 for dividends acquisitions and share repurchases to approximate $2.3 billion.
We reiterate our annual commitments to reduce our share count and grow our dividend per share by double digits and we will continue to grow the firm through acquisitions that build our market position client services and geographic footprint.
I also want to spend a few moments on our investment philosophy.
We believe in balance and in this context it's the balance between delivering strong financial performance today while investing for our future.
MMC has a solid foundation and we have the flexibility to deliver strong financial performance in a variety of market conditions.
We have balance sheet flexibility to take advantage of opportunities while preserving our ability to manage through periods of stress.
Since 2009 we have invested nearly $7 billion for growth and efficiencies.
This includes CapEx of $2.2 billion 115 acquisitions and investments totaling approximately $4.6 billion and an increase in our head count of over 10 000 colleagues.
We have also invested in and rewarded our colleagues.
In each of the last eight years our overall global incentive compensation pools have increased while we have driven significant margin expansion.
Acquisitions are a core competency of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
We don't just buy companies; we develop relationships over time.
We see chemistry and a cultural fit.
And we invest in growth not just geographically but by segment by line of business and by capability.
We were active in 2015 completing 27 acquisitions and investments for approximately $1.2 billion.
Lastly I want to thank our 60 000 colleagues for their contributions.
And in particular my leadership team.
I am privileged to work with a strong leadership team that is defined by high standards diversity of thought cohesiveness and collegiality.
We are a team that takes its commitments seriously and we have delivered year after year.
In summary we are very pleased with our fourth quarter and full-year results as we continued to execute our long-term strategy for growth.
As we look to 2016 we are well-positioned to deliver underlying revenue growth margin expansion in both operating segments and strong EPS growth.
With that let me turn it over to Mark to give you more details on our performance.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to be joining the call today as the CFO of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies.
MMC capped off the year with an outstanding fourth quarter.
We delivered underlying revenue growth across each of our operating companies and both segments generated adjusted operating income growth with margin expansion.
GAAP EPS rose 31% including a $37 million pre-tax gain from Mercer's sale of a U.S.
defined contribution recordkeeping business.
This gain has been excluded from our adjusted results.
We believe this presentation is more indicative of the underlying performance of the company.
On an adjusted basis for the quarter EPS increased 8% to $0.71.
Our full year 2015 results represent another year of strong performance.
Underlying revenue growth was 4% with solid growth at all four operating companies.
Adjusted operating income increased 5% to $2.5 billion despite a significant foreign exchange headwind.
Our overall adjusted operating margin expanded 100 basis points to 19.1% with both segments contributing.
GAAP EPS grew 12% and adjusted EPS rose 8% in line with the high-single digit guidance we provided throughout the year.
For Risk and Insurance Services revenue in the fourth quarter was $1.7 billion with underlying growth of 4%.
Adjusted operating income grew 3% and the margin increased to 21.1%.
For the year underlying revenue growth was 3% adjusted operating income rose 3% to $1.6 billion and the margin increased 90 basis points to 23.3% the highest annual margin in over a decade.
Adjusted operating margins in RIS have improved every year since 2007.
Marsh's fourth quarter performance was strong across the board.
Revenue was $1.5 billion with underlying growth of 4% driven by strong new business.
Growth in the quarter was notable as it came on top of 4% growth in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The U.S.
Canada division grew 3% led by Marsh &amp; McLennan Agency.
In the international division underlying revenue grew 5% with 3% growth in EMEA reflecting strong performance in the UK 4% growth in Asia-Pacific and 13% in Latin America.
In December Marsh completed its acquisition of UK-based Jelf Group.
This acquisition supports Marsh's strategy to expand globally in the middle market.
For the year Marsh's underlying revenue rose 3% reflecting growth of 3% in both the U.S.
Canada and International division.
This was Marsh's fifth consecutive year with underlying revenue growth of at least 3%.
Guy Carpenter's revenue was $217 million in the fourth quarter an increase of 5% on an underlying basis.
EMEA and Latin America were areas of strength.
For the full year underlying revenue growth was 2% a good result considering the ongoing challenges facing the reinsurance industry.
Moving to Consulting.
Revenue was $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter reflecting strong underlying growth of 5%.
Adjusted operating income increased 5% to $265 million.
The adjusted operating margin expanded 60 basis points to 16.7% the 16th consecutive quarterly increase.
For the year underlying revenue growth was 5% and adjusted operating income increased 4% exceeding $1 billion for the first time.
Consulting has built a track record of achieving higher adjusted operating margins in recent years.
In 2015 the margin expanded 80 basis points to 17.3% its highest level in over 30 years.
Since 2010 Consulting's margins have improved by 600 basis points.
Mercer's revenue was $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter an underlying increase of 5% which follows 5% growth in the fourth quarter of last year.
Solid performance was achieved across all three of Mercer's major geographies: North America EuroPac and Growth Markets.
The revenue increase was driven by health up 8% and talent up 7%.
Investments rose 2% and retirement grew 1%.
Health continues to benefit from growth in both the core business and Mercer Marketplace and talent once again performed well.
In the quarter Mercer completed several acquisitions including CPSG Partners a provider of Workday implementation services.
In addition Mercer successfully completed the sale of its U.S.
defined contribution recordkeeping business in the quarter.
This activity highlights the strategy Mercer has been executing over the last several years investing in growth opportunities while deemphasizing areas that do not meet our return requirements or are not core to its business.
For the year Mercer's underlying revenue growth was 4% with investments increasing 7% health up 6% and talent up 5%.
Retirement was flat.
Mercer's underlying revenue growth has been 3% or better for the last five years.
Oliver Wyman delivered another strong quarter.
Revenue in the fourth quarter was $476 million reflecting underlying growth of 7%.
Growth was driven by Financial Services Lippincott and the Actuarial business.
For the year Oliver Wyman's underlying revenue growth was also 7% which builds on a strong growth of 15% in 2014.
As we typically do at this time of year let me update you regarding our Global Retirement Plan.
As you may recall in the first quarter of 2015 we recognized a non-recurring credit of $125 million as a result of changes to our U.S.
Post-65 Retiree Medical Plan.
This action represented a substantial portion of the mitigation we undertook to offset the increase in annual retiring (23:05) expense we faced last year due to declines in global interest rates.
Late in 2015 we made additional retirement plan changes that essentially replaced this credit not only through 2016 but beyond.
As discussed on our last earnings call the most impactful change was in the structure of our U.S.
defined benefit plan where it was divided into two separate plans.
This structure better positions the company to take advantage of derisking opportunity.
It also resulted in extending the amortization period for actuarial gains and losses in the inactive plan.
This lowers annual pension expense.
As a result of these changes coupled with the many other factors that go into determining the year-end measurement of our pension expense we expect a year-over-year decline in retirement expense of approximately $30 million for 2016 or $0.04 per share.
Turning to investment income.
In the third quarter of 2015 we recognized investment income of $29 million from the final settlement of our Trident III investment.
At year-end our private equity portfolio amounted to $76 million and we expect to generate only modest investment income going forward versus the $38 million we recognized in 2015.
The anticipated reduction in our investment income for 2016 should essentially offset the $0.04 benefit from lower retirement expense.
As we anticipated on our earnings call in October the FX headwind in the fourth quarter was $0.05 per share and $0.18 for the year.
This was by far the highest annual level of FX impact in MMC's history.
If foreign exchange rates remain at their current levels we expect FX to adversely affect EPS by approximately $0.07 in 2016.
The majority of the impact will be felt in the first half of the year.
Our tax rate fluctuates quarter-to-quarter reflecting the geographic mix of earnings tax settlements completion of open tax years and changes in international and local tax rates.
Our adjusted tax rate in the fourth quarter was 29.7% and the rate for the year was 28.7% reflecting discrete items.
Based on the current landscape for modeling purposes it would be reasonable to assume a tax rate of 29% in 2016.
Total balance sheet debt at year-end was $4.4 billion slightly below the third quarter level reflecting the recent repayment of a $50 million term loan.
In 2015 balance sheet debt increased by approximately $1 billion.
The term structure of our debt portfolio provides us significant flexibility with few near-term repayment obligations.
Our next debt maturity is a $250 million senior note due in April 2017.
Due to the substantial work we have done to restructure our debt over the last three years our average cost of debt has fallen to 3.7%.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares of our stock for $75 million.
For the year we bought back 24.8 million shares for $1.4 billion the highest level in our history.
As we mentioned on our third quarter call we pulled forward a portion of the share repurchases we had plans for both the fourth quarter and 2016.
As a result our buyback activity is expected to be less than 2015.
As Dan mentioned this year we expect to deploy roughly $2.3 billion of capital across share repurchase acquisitions and dividends.
In 2015 we returned over $2 billion of capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Overall we deployed $3.2 billion of capital across share buybacks acquisitions and dividends a record year of capital deployment for MMC.
Sources of this capital included our operating cash flows the addition of $1 billion of balance sheet debt and a reduction of $600 million in balance sheet cash.
Since 2013 we have added $1.5 billion of balance sheet debt and reduced our cash balance by over $900 million.
For the year uses of cash included $632 million per dividend $1.2 billion for acquisitions and investments and $1.4 billion for share repurchases.
For the fourth quarter we deployed $811 million of cash that included $164 million for dividends $572 million for acquisitions and $75 million for share repurchases.
Cash on our balance sheet at year-end stood at $1.4 billion which was down from $2 billion at the end of 2014.
Cash in the U.S.
was $580 million.
Once again in 2015 we delivered on our capital return commitments.
We reduced our share count by more than 3% and increased our dividends per share by over 11%.
With that I'm happy to turn the call back over to Dan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Mark.
Operator we are ready to begin Q&amp;A.
The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
We'll have our first question from Ryan Tunis Credit Suisse.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I think my first question is for Dan.
I think it's in response to talking about 2016 growth.
And I think you said that hoping it approaches the longer term target which is 13%.
And I guess thinking about the currency headwind that would seem to imply a pretty decent chunk of either organic growth or margin expansion.
So I'm just wondering if there's anything outside of those segments – I don't know if it's tax rate or anything along those lines that might help push that growth rate upward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Ryan.
Actually in terms of how we get close to our long-term target and in fact achieve it over the long term there's no magic formula.
It has basically obviously top-line growth is a significant factor.
And the more we grow the top line the easier it is to expand margins.
Although we have proven our ability to expand margins even in times of pretty low organic growth.
We feel very comfortable that when you look over the last number of years how we have grown in the 3% to 5% organic growth area that for 2016 the way it feels like to us is that we'll be in that range and we will have margin expansion in both segments and therefore our operating earnings will be quite strong.
And fundamentally that is the backbone to how we will deliver EPS growth.
So there's nothing in our current thinking of it that involves issues like tax et cetera.
The one thing we don't control is FX.
We don't control the macroeconomic conditions in the world either but we're less concerned about that because that sort of has a lag factor.
But FX hits you between the eyes in any one quarter and in any one year.
But if you look at our results even in 2015 on a constant currency basis it was very strong and we would expect that to continue in 2016.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just a follow-up for Mark.
I think first of all how should we think about just cash pension contributions next year relative to this year? And then also just wanted to make sure I understand these changes correctly.
Is it such that – that's on the U.S.
benefit plans.
Is it such that if interest rates do remain low that you will not need to continue to come up with new mitigating factors in the coming years? Is it such that over the next few years that this is sort of a permanent offset if interest rates remain low? Am I thinking about that right? That's right Ryan.
The change to the U.S.
plan is sort of baked into the base so that will persist.
In terms of cash contribution in 2015 we contributed $195 million and we expect only a modest uptick in 2016 around $217 million.
Okay.
That's all.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Next question please? Charles Sebaski BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I was hoping to get a little bit more color on MMA and thoughts on the organic growth where it stands in size now if there's any disparity between that and the more traditional Marsh book in terms of growth of profile or margin contribution.
Anything you provide I'd appreciate.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I'll take that to begin with and then hand it over to Peter to give more commentary.
But the MMA is a core strategy of the firm and really was approved by the company's board in July of 2008.
And I point that out just to say we've not only had changes of CEO at the parent company level we've also had changes of CEO at the Marsh subsidiary level.
But the strategy itself we've stuck to it we've done the hard yards and we've built the business over multi years that we're incredibly proud of and we think well positioned for throughout future.
We always said in the past that we expected MMA to be able to deliver organic growth which was stronger than Marsh U.S.
over time at an EBITDA margin which would be similar to Marsh's overall margins.
And so Peter do you want to add to that? Marsh LLC</span></strong> Thanks Dan.
As Dan said that this has always been a well thought-out strategy.
We like the segment in the middle market and it has been one that we wanted to grow in through acquisition and through organic growth.
We've been able to attract the highest quality agencies in building MMA.
And attributes of high-quality agencies are terrific people track records of strong organic growth and they've been able to do that once we've acquired them.
Then we have shared best practices across those high-quality agencies and so that quality has led to more quality.
A big part of the organic growth though is not only have we acquired high-quality agencies we've invested a lot of in our sales capacity.
And so we're trying to grow net sales capacity each and every year.
We now have over 700 full-time producers within MMA and that makes a very big difference.
And then lastly is that Dave Eslick and his leadership team have executed very well.
So not only are we growing the segment that's strategically where we wanted to be in attracting the highest quality agencies we're also investing in executing on sales capacity.
And so the growth has been balanced across the U.S.
and balanced between the H&amp;V (34:57) and Property and Casualty.
Could you let us let us know what the revenue is for 2015 for MMA? Marsh LLC</span></strong> Well the estimated annualized revenue is around $900 million.
Excellent.
I appreciate that.
I guess just another for overall business on the P&amp;C side and regarding the growth for 2016.
What's the pricing expectation do you have kind of baked in for the P&amp;C market? And I guess overall how much of the business today is commission versus fee-based? So I'm trying to get some understanding or appreciation of the sensitivity to changes in P&amp;C pricing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I'll take that to start and hand over to Peter.
First whatever percentage we give you on commissions versus fees I would bear in mind that it's not a direct insulation.
If there's a prolonged long-term soft market it puts downward pressure on fees as well in a competitive environment.
So it's not that fee business is completely insulated from the vagaries of the market.
But having said that when you look at how we run the company over long stretches of time because of the amount of capital and competition amongst insurance companies on a global basis we expect there to generally be a downward trend on rating levels.
Now insurance rates are the most important thing in a lot of respects to an insurance company.
Insurance premiums are more important to intermediaries.
And so when we look at exposure units and other factors around the world we expect to see some slight growth in insurance premiums notwithstanding some of the downward pressure that is existing on rating levels.
But Peter you want to add to that? Marsh LLC</span></strong> There's not a lot to add Dan.
I think you captured a lot of it.
I think what we've seen in the pricing has been – we've seen more falloff in 2015 compared to 2014.
But the sequential from quarter to quarter we have not seen accelerate.
So we have seen more rate come off in 2015 in the fourth quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
And so we would expect that in 2016 it will be modest.
I don't see it significantly accelerating.
We've seen property come off a little bit more but it's been very orderly very measured and we think it would be a balance.
In terms of how you should think about commission versus fee we've mentioned that we're growing a lot in MMA and so the commission we'll book is growing as a overall percentage of the book not only from organic growth but as we're making more acquisitions and then the international is driven more by commission.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So thank you Charles.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Next question please? Thank you Charles.
Next question.
Elyse Greenspan Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
I was hoping to...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
...to spend some time on the outlook for Guy Carpenter.
The growth picked up in the fourth quarter.
So first of all was there anything kind of one time in there? And then also as you think about 2016 and the outlook for the rating environment as well as new business there how do you see the growth within Guy Carpenter for the coming year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and so first I just like to say about Guy Carpenter it's been some tough sledding over the last couple of years of market conditions.
But when we look over a long period of time Guy Carpenter has grown its underlying revenue 22 out of the last 24 quarters.
So we feel very good about how they're positioned and what they're delivering to the firm truly one of our crown jewels.
But Alex you want to add to this? Guy Carpenter &amp; Co.
LLC</span></strong> Thanks Dan.
So let's bear in mind that the fourth quarter is our smallest quarter.
But obviously we're very pleased with the 5% and that came from good client retention.
We had strong new facultative business in Latin America and the UK.
And Marine Specialty Continental Europe and U.S.
facultative all outperformed.
In addition we got a maximum performance bonus from a major global client.
So there's nothing one-off about it but bear in mind it is our smallest quarter.
We remain innovative and we remain relevant to our different segments.
We've added new resources to our existing highly talented pool.
We made investments in leading-edge client-facing technologies and these are being recognized by our clients.
And we're harnessing the alternative capital.
We were top of the leagues in the cat bond space last year and we've got a good pipeline coming on.
And the good news I think is that some of our major clients have signaled their interests in returning to the reinsurance markets to meet their capital needs.
So we can seek and expect revenue growth for this year.
I'm not sure how much it's going to be.
It may be bumpy.
But we're a growth company and that's the way.
We lean forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I think from where we sit today I mean we'll know more as the year progresses.
But from where we sit today if you look at Guy Carpenter's performance in 2015 it's probably the best indication of the full-year performance as to what we would expect in 2016 as well.
Great.
Thank you.
And then in terms of the acquisition pipeline you in your remarks said that it was in good shape.
Have you guys seen any change in multiples on transactions? And then also as you think about 2016 and your capital plan you did end the year with a sizeable transaction with the Jelf Group.
How do you think about the size of potential transactions that are in the pipeline and what you might consider going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good question.
A complicated question.
It's got several parts to it.
So let me talk about it broadly for a second.
First of all we do have a good pipeline.
both in RIS and in consulting.
It is a global pipeline.
When we evaluate our pipeline though we generally look at a lot of different things or at least cast a glance over a lot of different things but do very few for a variety of reasons.
So even last year which was a very active year for us where we had 27 acquisitions and investments we actually reviewed more than 10 times the amount of what we actually did.
And so that gives you an idea of the labyrinth that needs to go through for us to say we want to do this acquisition and conclude it.
And multiples are a factor.
I mean last year I can tell you even though we did $1.2 billion of transaction in terms of transaction value we walked away from well more than $1.2 billion of transaction value and generally we walked away because of either concerns about growth the difference between our view of what the potential growth could be in the future rather than the seller's view of what the potential growth could be or price expectations.
And so we believe we're disciplined.
Clearly over a course of a number years we've seen some multiple expansion particularly for larger type of acquisitions because that attracts PE and other parties to it.
But actually for mid-size smaller folding tuck-in type of acquisitions the multiples while they may be a bit more than they were five years ago we still think are quite reasonable.
And if you look at our real strategy I think you would see Jelf was a bit of an outlier size-wise not much of an outlier but a bit.
You look at the acquisitions that we've done over the last five years.
The average acquisition transaction value has been a bit about $40 million per transaction.
And so it's more of a string of pearls than chunkier than that.
They'll be the odd larger company but it's not a change in strategy in any way.
Now in terms of capital plan Mark do you have some comments on that? Yeah.
I think overall we maintained a balanced approach to a lot of elements of our strategy and capital is no exception.
As Dan said we firmly believe that to drive value over the long term we're going to consistently and continue to invest or reinvest in the business through M&amp;A to extend our business build our business.
As he talked about we maintain high standards in terms of discipline and expected returns.
We expect to maintain this balance going forward.
But it is balanced.
And if you refer back to what we did in 2015 we deployed $1.2 billion of capital to acquisitions but $2 billion of capital was returned to shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And so if you look at our overall we've been talking about returning capital of about $2.3 billion-ish for 2016.
And if you think in terms of dividend that probably is a number like $650 million to $700 million with a double-digit increase that we would deliver in 2016 which leaves you $1.6 billion maybe $1.7 billion between acquisitions and share repurchase.
And the acquisition number is a question mark because we have no budget around acquisitions.
But that level of return would exist and generally we would prefer if it was close to being balanced.
But we'll work through that.
Any other questions Elyse? No.
That was great.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you.
Next question? Quentin McMillan KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks very much guys.
I wanted to first ask just about the global growth in the RIS segment particularly Latin America was obviously really strong this quarter.
Wanting to understand if that was a little bit more chunky one-off because it was obviously a fairly challenged macro down there.
And then more largely what you're seeing in the developing markets and what you look for for 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll hand over to Peter in a second but I just can't resist celebrating our business in Latin America a little bit.
So Peter I'm sorry if take some of the thunder on it.
But I just want to say the fourth quarter and also the year it's not at an anomaly at all for Marsh in Latin America.
Marsh Latin America has grown underlying revenue 8% or more for six straight years.
So a tremendously strong performance through good times and tough times.
So Peter do you want to add? Marsh LLC</span></strong> We had a terrific fourth quarter.
13% was led by Peru Mexico and Colombia.
So those are three out of the four top countries in terms of size in Latin America.
We did have a weaker fourth quarter in 2014.
So perhaps the growth is a little bit more than perhaps the run rate.
We did 8% for the year.
But if I look at the fundamentals we had really strong client retention very good renewal growth from the rollover of new business in the prior year.
But again strong client retention and we grew through new business.
So they really executed on a balanced basis and really pleased with the recovery for the year.
And as Dan said it's been six straight years with 8% or greater.
And we just have a terrific business there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thanks so much.
And then just following up on the M&amp;A question 2hat we've seen in the high-yield markets of spreads really starting to widen seems like it's going to make it harder for some of those private equity competitors who have been bidding up these deals as you previously alluded to to continue to try to maybe outbid you guys or pay economic values that are just not sustainable.
A is that a trend that you have seen in any way in the marketplace so far? And B is that something that you guys are monitoring and think could be a potential positive going down the line? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So it's certainly a potential positive.
It takes a while to turn up I would say.
So we haven't seen anything and we very rarely actually compete with PE.
I know plenty of people do but ultimately our general attitude with regard to acquisitions is we very rarely if at all participate in auctions and if PE is involved we almost always take a pass because we want the owners to have made up their mind as to whether they want to be part of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies part of a strategic long-term viable operation or whether they're looking to optimize compensation in the short term and they're willing to roll the dice as to what the ultimate outcome and the ultimate owner someday down the road would be.
And so we don't bump up against PE as much as you would think.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Next question please? We have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Well that's fine.
That's probably a record.
But I would just like to thank everybody for joining us this morning and thank our colleagues specifically for their support and our clients for all the good things that we do together and wish everybody a good day.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.