Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Cliff Fleet Vice President of Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria's 2011 first quarter business results and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contained forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria's business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with the U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today's call may contain various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior year period unless otherwise stated.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Mike Szymanczyk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group.
Thank you Cliff and good morning to everyone.
Altria delivered strong financial results in the first quarter with adjusted diluted EPS growth of 4.8% as our businesses navigated through high unemployment low consumer confidence and a competitive business environment.
As we anticipated adjusted EPS growth comparisons for the first quarter were challenging but our results exceeded our initial expectations and give us confidence in our ability to achieve adjusted diluted EPS growth within our forecasted range for the year.
In the Cigarette segment PM U.S.A reported strong adjusted operating companies income growth with margin expansion.
We are particularly pleased with these financial results since in the comparable year ago period the Cigarette segments adjusted operating companies income growth was also quite strong.
Timing of new product launches and trade inventory changes impacted year-over-year comparisons for retail share volume and income in the Cigarette segment.
New product launches this year and in the first quarter of last year had a significant impact on both PM U.S.A.'s and Marlboro's retail share comparisons.
PM U.S.A.
shipped 2 Marlboro Special Blend SKUs in the beginning of the first quarter last year.
The success of this launch significantly benefited Marlboro's retail share results in all of the first quarter of 2010 creating a challenging retail share comparison.
2 additional Marlboro Special Blend SKUs were shipped toward the end of the first quarter this year with minimal impact on the quarter's retail share results.
Trade inventory changes also impacted quarterly year-over-year Cigarette segment shipment and income comparisons.
PM U.S.A.
believes the trade build inventory from the beginning to the end of both comparable time periods but the trade built less inventory this year than in 2010.
Trade inventory build in the first quarter could negatively impact volume and income results for the Cigarette segment if depleted in the future.
PM U.S.A.'s reported cigarette shipments declined versus the comparable year ago period and after adjusting for trade inventory changes were estimated to be down slightly more than the Cigarette category.
PM U.S.A.'s adjustment cigarette shipments declined more than the category due to a decline in the retail share.
This retail share decline occurred primarily due to the timing of the Marlboro new product launches I mentioned and retail share losses on some of PM U.S.A.'s other brands primarily discount as  PM U.S.A.
optimizes the long-term income of its portfolio brands.
PM U.S.A.
is pleased with Marlboro's first quarter performance.
The brand gained retail share as the quarter progressed showing increased momentum and turned in an excellent profit performance.
Although PM U.S.A.
faces a particularly challenging second quarter retail share comparison as Marlboro had a record retail share result in the second quarter of 2010 we expect quarterly retail share comparisons to improve significantly in the second half of the year both overall and for Marlboro.
Overall PM U.S.A.
delivered solid Cigarette segment business results in the quarter.
Although competition remained intense and comparisons were tough operating companies income continued to grow operating companies margins continue to expand and Marlboro is well positioned for the balance of the year.
In the Smokeless Products segment USSTC and PM U.S.A.
reported solid business results in a competitive environment.
We are particularly pleased with the Smokeless Products segments operating companies income result as it had a challenging comparison to the first quarter of 2010.
As in the Cigarette segment there were a number of factors in the Smokeless Products segment impacting year-over-year comparisons for income volume and retail share.
Last year's results benefited from the 2009 fourth quarter launch of Copenhagen Wintergreen.
Given the timing of this launch first quarter of 2010 represented the first full quarter of shipments for this very successful new product.
Second the 2010 first quarter shipments of two new Copenhagen products Long Cut Straight and Extra Long Cut Natural and the national launch of four Marlboro Snus products and the Skoal Slim line can pouch promotion in the first quarter 2010.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.
shipped several new Smokeless Products in the first quarter of 2011 although these launches did not benefit this quarter's results as much as new products and promotions contributed to last year's first quarter results.
This year Marlboro and Skoal each launched two new Snus products and Skoal shipped 8 new Skoal xtra products towards the end of the quarter.
As a result of the year-over-year changes in new product and promotional activities reported Smokeless Products shipments declined versus prior year period.
However after adjusting for these factor USSTC and PM U.S.A.
estimate that their combined Smokeless Products shipment volumes grew slightly below the Smokeless categories growth rate for the quarter.
The Smokeless Products segments retails share declined versus last year as the segment had a challenging comparison due to the new product activity in the year-ago time period as well as Skoal's year-over-year retail share performance.
On a sequential basis however USSTC and PM U.S.A.
grew their combined retail share of the Smokeless category due to a sequential retail share growth for both Copenhagen and Skoal.
Copenhagen's retail share increased both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis due to continuing marketplace momentum from its new products and strengthened its core natural business.
Copenhagen plans to build on this momentum and help drive future growth by launching Copenhagen Wintergreen pouches nationally in the second quarter of this year.
Skoal grew retail share on a sequential basis as comprehensive brand building initiatives positively impacted its performance.
USSTC expects the new Skoal xtra products shipped toward the end of the quarter will contribute to the brand's future growth.
Overall USSTC and PM U.S.A.
delivered solid first quarter Smokeless Products segment results.
Copenhagen and Skoal both grew sequential retail share and adjusted shipment volumes and operating companies income grew on a year-over-year basis.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.
believe they are well positioned to continue delivering solid results in the Smokeless category as the year progresses.
In the Cigars segment post FET increase marketplace dynamics continue to impact Middleton's reported income results.
Middleton is working to resolve these issues but expects that a resolution will take some time and that these marketplace dynamics will continue to have an impact on Middleton's income results for the year.
In response to these dynamics Middleton invested in promotional initiatives to defend Black &amp; Mild's marketplace position that benefited Middleton's volume and retail share results for the quarter.
Middleton's reported shipments and Black &amp; Mild's retail share both increased versus the comparable year ago period.
Middleton had several brand building activities planned for the balance of the year designed to continue enhancing Black &amp; Mild's performance.
These activities include: introducing nationally two untipped cigarillo varieties in the second quarter of this year to expand Black &amp; Mild's position in the Untipped Cigarillo segment where it historically has not completed widely.
This is the largest machine-made Large Cigar segment representing over 50% of the category share in 2010; and introducing Black &amp; Mild shorts as competitively priced tipped cigarillo alternatives in a number of high volume geographies.
Middleton believes these and other actions planned for the balance of the year should enhance Black &amp; Mild's marketplace position and improve the company's financial results as the year progresses.
In the line segment Ste.
Michelle reported solid business results with strong growth and adjusted operating companies income due in part to Ste.
Michelle's focus on improving its mix with higher margin products.
First quarter reported line shipments were essentially the same as the prior year period and Ste.
Michelle believes that shipments in both time periods were impacted by wholesale inventory movements.
Ste.
Michelle's retail unit volumes continue to grow helping position the company for solid business results in the balance of the year.
Overall we are pleased with our results through the end of the first quarter as our businesses successfully navigated through a challenging environment faced some difficult comparisons.
The underlying strengths of these businesses in conjunction with solid first quarter results gives us confidence that we can deliver adjusted diluted EPS growth of 6% to 9% for the full year at a range of $2.01 to $2.07 off an adjusted base of $1.90 per share in 2010.
Given that first quarter EPS results outperformed our expectations in part due to trade inventory dynamics that will play out as the year progresses we expect some unevenness and adjusted EPS growth on a quarterly basis with more growth toward the back half of the year.
I will now turn the call over to Howard Willard Altria's Executive Vice President and CFO who will discuss Altria's business segment results in more detail.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning.
In the Cigarette segment reported operating companies income increased by 9.5% to $1.3 billion due primarily to higher list prices and lower restructuring costs partially offset by lower volume and higher FDA user fees.
When adjusted for restructuring costs first quarter operating companies income increased by 7.1% to $1.3 billion and adjusted income margins increased by 2.5 percentage points to 39.6%.
As Mike noted we are particularly pleased with these results since in the first quarter last year adjusted Cigarette segment operating companies income grew by a strong 6.7%.
Reported Cigarette segment shipments declined by 6.4% but after adjusting for trade inventory changes declined by an estimated 5%.
The trade increase cigarette inventories from the beginning to the end of the first quarter benefiting reported Cigarette segment volume and income results.
PM U.S.A.
estimates that the overall cigarette categories adjusted volume declined by approximately 4% in the first quarter which is in line with historical price elasticity.
PM U.S.A.'s first quarter Cigarette segment retail share declined by 1.2 share points to 49% due to retail share declines of 0.7 of a share point on its portfolio brands and 0.5 a share point on Marlboro.
Marlboro's retail share was 42.2% in the first quarter.
Marlboro Menthol performed well in the marketplace as its retail share grew by 0.1 of a share point to 6.1%.
based in part on the introduction of Marlboro's Skyline Menthol in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The Smokeless Products segment's reported operating companies income increased by 8.4% to $193 million due primarily to higher pricing and lower restructuring costs.
When adjusted for restructuring and UST acquisition related costs operating companies income increased by 3.2% to $194 million.
Reported Smokeless Products shipments decreased by 1.3% but when adjusted primarily for the timing of new product launches increased by an estimated 6%.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.
estimate that the Smokeless Products category grew 7% in the first quarter.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.'s combined retail share of the Smokeless Products category decreased by 0.6 of a share point versus the comparable year ago period to 54.7%.
but increased by 0.2 of a share point on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter of 2010 due to share growth for both Copenhagen and Skoal.
Copenhagen grew 0.3 of a share point versus the fourth quarter of 2010 to 26% and also grew by 0.4 of a share point on a comparable year-over-year basis.
Skoal also grew 0.3 of a share point on a sequential basis to 22% but declined 1.1 share points on a comparable year-over-year basis.
Middleton's reported operating companies income decreased 53.2% to $22 million primarily due to promotional investments made to protect Black &amp; Mild's marketplace position.
Middleton's overall retail share grew by 0.6 of a share point to 29.1% driven by Black &amp; Mild's retail share performance.
Black &amp; Mild grew its retail share by 0.8 of a share point to 28.9%.
When adjusted for integration costs operating companies income decreased by 54.2% to $22 million.
Middleton's first quarter shipments grew by 1.9%.
Increases in imported machine-made large cigars have made trade inventory volumes difficult to determine accurately in the short term.
Consequently Middleton is only providing its reported company shipments.
Ste.
Michelle's reported operating companies income increased by 71.4% to $12 million.
When adjusted for UST acquisition related and restructuring costs operating companies income increased by 25% to $15 million.
The Wine segment shipment volume was essentially the same as the prior year period but shipments were impacted primarily by wholesale inventory changes.
Ste.
Michelle believes that in the first quarter of 2011 wholesalers depleted inventory billed during the fourth quarter of 2010 while in the year-ago period wholesalers increased inventories.
Ste.
Michelle's retail unit volume increased by 2.3% while the wine industry's volume grew 3.2%.
The Financial Services segment's reported operating companies income of $21 million was the same as last year.
At the end of the quarter the allowance for losses was unchanged versus the end of last year at $202 million.
Altria continued to deliver shareholder value by managing its cost structure.
Altria delivered $35 million in cost savings across its family of companies in the first quarter of 2011.
We are confident that we can achieve the remaining $110 million in cost savings from our $1.5 billion program by the end of this year.
Since 2006 we have delivered nearly $1.4 billion in cost savings.
Altria also delivered value to shareholders by returning cash to them.
In the first quarter the company paid almost $800 million in dividends reflecting our intention to return 80% of adjusted diluted EPS to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Based on our annualized dividend rate of $1.52 per share our closing stock price of $27.01 on April 15 our yield of 5.6% makes Altria stock an attractive investment.
Altria intends to complete its previously announced 2011 $1 billion share repurchase program by the end of this year but the timing of any share repurchases depends present marketplace conditions and other factors and remains subject to the discretion of our board.
Mike and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 35% in the first quarter.
Marlboro's net pack price in the quarter was $5.70 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.21.
The cigarette discount categories first quarter retail share was 27.6%.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the first quarter was $1.36 per pack.
There were no cigarette excise tax increases in the first quarter.
Copenhagen's first quarter net retail price was $4.17 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 40% in the quarter.
As of March 31 2011 20 states and the District of Columbia use a weight-based Smokeless Tobacco excise tax system representing approximately 32% of the Smokeless Tobacco categories volume.
CapEx was $13 million in the first quarter and depreciation and amortization was $60 million.
And on April 15 PM U.S.A.
made its annual 2010 MSA payment of approximately $3.5 billion.
The amount includes approximately $267 million that PM U.S.A.
disputes it owes as a result of the 2008 non-participating manufacturer adjustment.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Mike just starting with a little bit more question around just the Marlboro share performance clearly I understand that there is obviously the timing of the new product launches and the promotional timing that affects the market share performance on a quarter-to-quarter basis but maybe you can give us a little bit more perspective on your strategy to use these line expansions to go after the French Marlboro users.
If you think about just the core Marlboro franchise so when you exiled some of these new products can you tell us how much retail share of the core Marlboro franchise is up or down? And then as some of these new product launches got into the retail this year can you tell us how the share is performing for Marlboro? Well let me talk about the Marlboro share just a little bit because I often remind investors that quarter-to-quarter comparisons due to the amount of activity either we have in the marketplace or competitors have in the marketplace cannot be indicative of underlying trends in the business and I think the first quarter of 2011 is a case in point.
If you go back 2010 the Marlboro share grew for the year about 0.8 well ahead of what had been its average growth rate over the past few years and that was substantially more than was necessary to offset the growth of our other premium brand share loss which is something we like to cover with Marlboro.
That means that the rest of that share was largely guarded from promotion-sensitive consumers and discount consumers who as I talked before shop in every brand even though Marlboro has a very high loyalty factor relative to other consumer products every brand has some percentage of its business that's price sensitive.
So we have some share points that are like that.
If you look at the first quarter of the year actually the first half what you'll see is that we have major product launch a very successful behind Marlboro Special Blend.
So while most of that share is sustainable share some of it due to promotion activity when you launch new product comes from these more promotion sensitive or discount shoppers and that activity wasn't replicated in the first quarter of this year.
If you look at the total year last year during the period that we had that launch activity we saw very strong share actually a record share in the second quarter for Marlboro.
And then we saw as the launch activity abated we also saw some of that what I'll call temporary share slip away.
And so as we lap that quarter the first quarter this year we didn't have the same kind of activity.
We expected to see some loss in the share.
And during the same time this year in the first quarter you had some other products that had a high level of activity that was price related.
Newport Non-Menthol Camel continued low price activity and Pall Mall that can cause some of this more promotion-sensitive or discount business to shift around.
So I think more indicative of the Marlboro business right now is its comparison March to December.
We showed some nice share growth during that period of time even without extraordinary support that we had in the year ago time frame.
So we think Marlboro is actually in pretty good shape and we're going to face a tough comparison in the second quarter but as we move into the back half of the year the comparisons will be more favorable and we tend to look at the brands' performance on a longer-term basis rather than a quarter-to-quarter basis or even a half-to-half.
So I think it's doing fine.
We don't break out the various pieces but the franchise continues to show good strength.
And then just some color around the new Marlboro leadership program that you've implemented with the retailers where you're suggesting max price for Marlboro in given markets.
I guess just wondering so far what the adoption rate has been in terms of the retailers agreeing to that program.
And then in general if we think about Marlboro's average pricing how much pricing would come down if majority of the retailers agree to adopt this program? And then finally any risk that as the pricing on Marlboro comes down as a result of program again as sort of maybe risk of the brand equity question here? First of all just some context.
Marlboro has for a while had a program available to retailers that wanted to use Marlboro as a means to draw traffic in to their stores so this is really a redesign of that program because all programs kind of become less relevant over time and their structure as marketplace conditions change and that's the case with this one and we will look at these programs periodically and update them.
So we update this program effective April 1 it's designed to be cost neutral with the old program and beyond that the older response rate about a program is designed for every retailer necessarily based on their strategy more with ones in the past but the response rate to this program has been I think very positive by many retailers.
And some retailers won't choose to do it.
That's what we expect.
We'll see what the impact is in the marketplace but we expect to see some positive impact from the brands' performance as we have in the past with programs like this one when some of our customers get behind it.
And then just finally on your decision to put the MSA disputed payments into the escrow account this year which is different than what you've done in the past can you just give us a little bit color in terms of the rationale? This dispute is now in full arbitration and so we felt like that was the appropriate decision this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Just following up on Judy's question on the MLP program Mike I'm just trying to think of the P&amp;L impact here and it strikes me as this is just basically a reallocation of monies within your existing trade agreements within the various customers that you deal with.
Is that kind of a fair characterization? I mean is it just -- will you be outlaying incremental dollars and cents to help fund the back end incentives for folks that sign up on the option? We would expect it to be neutral.
Okay.
So it's just effectively a reallocation of dollars? Yes that's right.
And then the other question is on the state excise tax in [indiscernible] the wording in the press release and your commentary continues to suggest a really cautious tone obviously.
We had limited activities thus far.
Several states have looked to reduce excise taxes.
I mean how should we think about this? I mean it seems like the environment is actually a little bit better than what most folks in the industry thought at the beginning of the year.
Any thoughts on that? It's still early in the year.
We never get overly optimistic about this.
We will continue to be paying close attention.
Okay great.
And then just the last question quickly on the ad valorem to weight based in Smokeless are there any other states that are considering a conversion in terms of tax methodology? I think there may be some activity there.
Off the top of my head I can't detail it for you but yes I think we expect that as the subject of excise taxes comes up in states I think you can expect in those where ad valorem exists that this subject will come up and sometimes it comes up where ad valorem doesn't exist as somebody tries to propose to go to ad valorem.
So I think you're going to continue to see activity there.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Two things I wanted to ask you.
First what are your thoughts about the TPSAC's menthol recommendation and what type of impact do you think it might ultimately have on the FDA's thinking with respect to menthol? Well I don't have really much to add to what we said in January to that subject.
I don't think what occurred was much different than what generally I think people thought would occur and I think obviously the FDA will take that under advisement but then as we continue to say we think they'll operate based on the science and the evidence and make the regulatory decisions accordingly.
So we haven't felt like we'd see some dramatic impact.
And so we watch and see how it unfolds.
Okay and then secondly Mike I wanted to ask you about your characterization of the elasticity the price elasticity of the U.S.
Cigarette category.
This quarter and in the past you've commented that you see no changes versus historical elasticity but my question is pricing to the consumer was probably up about 5% or 6% Q1 on Q1 last year and it looks like consumption was down about 4%.
So is what's happening in your view that the structural decline in industry volume in other words the decline that would occur in the absence of a price -- of pricing being higher is higher than it might have been in the past? No I wouldn't draw that conclusion.
I think your time frame probably is too short to really determine any trend David.
We generally would have to look at them on a longer time line to understand whether or not there was any trend line changes -- boy the history is pretty wrong on this and it seems to support a pretty stable elasticity.
Our next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Mike I had a question related to MLP but maybe not we've seen or heard about some reduced discounts on some of your other Marlboro brands the Special Blends or the 72's and given your comment about MLP program being cost neutral I'm trying to understand if that's a statement based on the MLP program itself or if you're also including some of the changes to discount plans on the other or other parts of the Marlboro franchise? Well you know we regularly change promotion activity in various states and relative to various SKUs.
So you should expect to see that separate and apart from the MLP program.
The MLP program's cost will vary a little bit based on take rate versus estimates but in general we think it'll be about cost control and our expectation is that won't have an impact on our overall performance or spending performance for the year.
Okay great.
And then moving to cigars this is clarified in the prior quarter as well we have a strong competitive environment here there was some discussion about the imports and the impact that's having on the environment.
Has there been any update on that? Is there some way to close that loophole or will this remain as tough for the rest of the year? I think it's an issue we'll have for the remainder of the year but during that period of time we will -- taken the appropriate steps to get that playing field level.
Okay.
And then just finally for me just to understand given your statements in the press release about the IRS development or just clarification or disclosure I just want to understand if in fact that program impacts your buyback program for the year.
Does that change your potential timing or even occurrence of the buyback for the year? No.
We don't see it impacting either our dividends or our announced buybacks.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citigroup.
I was just wondering if we could -- as you turn back to the Marlboro franchise just to say one more time and just clarify is there a floor to the Marlboro price gap that you're not willing to cross to the extent that the MLP program does indeed reduce Marlboro's price gap at retail? I'm not sure I understand what you're asking.
Is there a minimum price gap that you're just not willing to go below? Is it 30% and you at 30% you just have to hold Marlboro's pricing or...
Well generally it would be difficult to articulate something like that.
That number that you're referring to is kind of a national number but reality is that it's made up of a lot of different pieces or different price gaps in different states based on both activity in those states and excise taxes in those states and then competitive pricing moves with some regularity so it's always changing that number.
So we're -- in terms of our activities and the actions that we take we take those on a more precision basis.
We wouldn't be looking to some total national number to drive our decision making.
So it's much more surgical than that.
So I guess the general answer to your question is no.
What we do is we deal with the business issues in the marketplaces as we see trends develop or opportunities develop.
Okay understood.
I guess what I was just trying to get at though is with Marlboro's kind of status as a premium brand do you think that at some point you lower Marlboro's price gap so much that it erodes that premium brand equity? Well we really haven't seen that occur actually the dollar gap has expanded on Marlboro over time but the percent gap has narrowed somewhat because of the excise tax increases.
So I don't think that that's an issue.
Okay fair enough.
And just in terms of kind of the delay in terms of some of the FET activity has that at all improved your outlook for cigarette industry volumes for the year? For the absence of anything at [indiscernible]? We don't get predictive of it but as I commented on David's question I don't think we've seen any evidence that the normal elasticity has changed any.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just had two questions for you.
The first one in relation to the Cigarette division you had mentioned how inventories are built throughout the quarter.
Is there certain number of sticks or days or how we could look at that that you think maybe be a little extra within that division that could be worked out in the future? I'm just trying to get a sense of what that could do to volumes in the future.
Well I'm not going to try to segment that out.
All I'm going to say is that we saw some inventory building in the quarter but less than we had in the quarter a year ago.
So I'm just going to leave it at that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I want to ask about the promotional levels in the Smokeless division your Smokeless business.
You had pulled back a little bit on those in the fourth quarter you had a lot of work going on at retail.
Would you characterize promotional levels in Smokeless back to more normal levels in the quarter? I think we had pretty normal levels.
I mean we had a lot of activity in the first quarter last year because we launched a number of new products and we had less of that and the Skoal xtra launch is really a detail of the -- or I don't think there was anything unusual about the activity in the quarter this year maybe a bit less than there was last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then I guess somewhat related to that you've done a lot of the shelf resets in your Smokeless business.
I see it's always worked.
Is that pretty well complete now and that we've seen like an expanded space for Smokeless is that all sort of in place now where you wanted to initially get that done? I think the work regarding the physical work regarding resetting these sessions is pretty well complete.
There's still some tweaking and adjustment going on.
I think it's now really the ordering procedures and getting retail the same kinds of practices relative to ordering that maintains a really high in stock tradition with fresh product to occur in the Smokeless business as is the case in the Cigarette business.
So there's still more work to do to take advantage of now having the space allocated in a better way in terms of the impact on the consumer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> In that change or the increase in space would a product launch like the new Skoal products be incremental to your shelf space or are those replacing other products in your shelf side on average? Well that depends on the geography.
I mean Skoal has a lot of SKUs but the distribution on those SKUs isn't consistent across the country.
So in each geographic situation we've accommodated how to position Skoal xtra in the store based on the circumstance.
So that would really vary by store by development of particular SKUs on Skoal.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to know why there is more disclosure or discussion in this quarter's release in the Financial Services section.
That seems to be a change should I read there's a change in timing coming of a decision or anything I need to know? No we added that disclosure.
I think that kind of completes it.
There was a ruling and a case on some of these similar kinds of leases LILO/SILO called the Wells Fargo case not too long ago the other day.
So we just decided to add this additional disclosure.
LLC</strong> And then Mike I'm always interested in your opinion of the consumer.
And since January to now is there any change in consumer behavior or expectations for consumer behavior challenges of the environment.
I would love your update on your view of the consumer.
Well I think as we look at it our consumers still face high unemployment and still are expressing low confidence.
So that doesn't seem to have changed a lot and I think you can add to that geez they've got increased fuel cost pressures now.
So I don't think the situation has changed a lot for the general consumer out there as much as you'd like to say that and you may see some strength in the stock market.
I don't think that the general consumer is getting the same outcome out there right now.
So we're still cautious about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Russo with Gardner Russo Gardner.
Question about any victories any progress underway with the illicit trade or the counterfeit channels that you might share with us? Well that's an ongoing activity for us.
And so much of what goes on there is work that we do with law enforcement.
So we don't talk about that.
Generally you read about that after it's over but that kinds of activity continue to occur.
And I think that I don't think there's anything new to report relative on that subject in terms of impact on the business but it's also something that I think you have to keep constant pressure on because certainly the dynamics in the marketplace are such that if you don't you can see it expand.
And then just an observation from you.
What reads do you have from Duty Free or from parts of the U.S.
where there's heavy international traveling about the separation of the Marlboro brand equity for those who are non-U.S.
consumers in light of what they're seeing abroad in their home markets versus the U.S.? Has any kind of brand equity effects started to surface as the two product offerings diverge over time? No I don't think so.
I mean U.S.
Duty Free has been U.S.
Duty Free now for a while and the rest of it has been in PMI's hands for a while.
That was the case before the spin.
And so I don't think that anything meaningfully different is there.
We've had products in those different environments that are manufactured in different places for some time now.
So yes there's nothing new there.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Cliff Fleet for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to give us a call at Investor Relations here at Altria.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria's 2011 second quarter and first half business results and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results including earnings guidance.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria's business results please review the earnings release that's available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Today's call may contain various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior year period unless otherwise stated.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Mike Szymanczyk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group Inc.
Thanks Brendan and good morning to everyone.
Altria delivered solid financial results from the second quarter and the first half with adjusted diluted EPS growth of 6% and 5.4% respectively.
Our premium tobacco brands performed well in a highly competitive environment marked by continuing economic pressure on adult consumers.
We are pleased with our business results and remain on track to achieve the 2011 full year adjusted diluted EPS we forecast in our guidance.
In the Cigarette segment PM U.S.A.
reported solid adjusted operating company’s income growth and margin strength for both the second quarter and first half as Marlboro grew its retail share sequentially and PM U.S.A.'s premium mix continued to improve versus the prior year.
PM U.S.A.
grew its adjusted operating company’s income 2.8% for the second quarter and 4.8% for the first half.
Adjusted operating company’s income margins which include the impact of a $36 million charge for the Scott case were down 3/10 of a percentage point in the second quarter and were up 1 percentage point for the first half.
In the cigarette industry environment where premium share has remained relatively stable in recent years Marlboro's retail share increased sequentially and performed well when compared to last year's record share in the second quarter.
Marlboro's second quarter retail share grew by 4/10 of a share point versus the first quarter of 2011 to 42.6%.
This represented a share decline of 2/10 of a share point compared to last year's record retail share.
Marlboro's performance was driven in part by growth in Marlboro Menthol and the continued success of Special Blend which launched 2 new packings last quarter.
We are pleased with Marlboro's performance for the first half of 2011 from both a share and profitability standpoint.
PM U.S.A.
second quarter cigarette shipment volume benefited from trade inventory movements as the trade continued to build inventory levels through the quarter.
We believe that the trade has already begun to deplete some of its inventory in July and expect trade inventory depletion to impact shipment volume in the third quarter.
PM U.S.A.'s reported cigarette shipments in the quarter declined versus the comparable year-ago period and after adjusting for trade inventory changes were estimated to be down 4.5% compared to the total cigarette categories estimated decline rate of 3.5%.
Shipments of premium products represented 94.3% of PM U.S.A.'s total shipments an increase of 1 percentage point from last year.
PM U.S.A.'s results were delivered in an intense competitive environment marked by high unemployment and low consumer confidence.
Despite these challenges PM U.S.A.
improved its premium mix delivered strong adjusted operating income margins and achieved solid share results from Marlboro.
In the Smokeless Products segment our companies delivered excellent adjusted operating companies income growth driven by the share performance of Copenhagen and Skoal and strong margin growth.
Adjusted operating companies income for the Smokeless Products increased 10.9% for the second quarter and 7.2% for the first half.
Adjusted operating companies income margins increased 3.8 percentage points for the second quarter and 3 percentage points for the first half primarily due to higher pricing the shift to volume and to the more profitable Copenhagen and Skoal brands and lower SG&amp;A costs.
Copenhagen's momentum continued in the second quarter as the brand increased its retail share 1.1 percentage points versus the prior year and 7/10 of a share point sequentially.
Copenhagen share results continue to benefit from recent product introductions as well as strength in its core natural business.
Skoal has responded to brand building initiatives.
The brand gained sequential retail share for the second consecutive quarter as it benefited from the 2011 first quarter introduction of Skoal X-tra products and Skoal Snus.
Gains from these new products fully offset retail share losses which resulted from USSTC's portfolio rationalization that delisted 7 Skoal SKUs that individually had limited distribution.
Combined shipment volumes for Copenhagen and Skoal increased 2.4% in the second quarter and 3.2% for the first half.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.'s combined shipment volume for the first half decreased due to trade inventory changes and a negative comparison on their portfolio brands including Marlboro Snus partially offset by volume growth on Copenhagen and Skoal.
Overall USSTC and PM U.S.A.
delivered excellent financial results in the Smokeless Products segment in the first half of 2011.
We are pleased with the way Copenhagen and Skoal are performing and with the momentum they carry into the second half of the year.
The Cigars segment continues to be affected by increased levels of low-priced imported machine made large cigars following the 2009 federal excise tax increase.
Middleton has taken a number of steps to improve its business performance including efficiently investing in promotional resources to defend Black &amp; Mild's retail share and launching new products to expand the brand into new segments where it has not competed widely.
In addition Middleton has entered into a contract manufacturing arrangement to source a portion of its cigars outside of the United States.
Middleton's second quarter adjusted operating companies income of $47 million was down versus the prior year but more than doubled sequentially while Black &amp; Mild's retail share grew 9/10 of a share point versus last year supported by new products and brand-building initiatives.
In the Wine segment Ste.
Michelle's adjusted operating companies income increased 11.8% in the second quarter and 17.2% for the first half.
Wine shipment volume increased 6.3% in the second quarter and 3.5% in the first half.
We believe that our business results through June put us on track to achieve our 2011 full year guidance for both reported and adjusted diluted EPS.
We expect to deliver adjusted diluted EPS growth of 6% to 9% for the full year in a range of $2.01 to $2.07 off an adjusted base of $1.90 per share in 2010.
We also expect to achieve reported diluted EPS in the range of $1.70 to $1.76.
Since our second quarter and first half results benefited from trade inventory dynamics and as cigarette trade inventories are depleted in the third quarter we expect Altria's 2011 fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS growth to be stronger than the third quarter of 2011.
I will now turn the call over to Howard Willard Altria's Executive Vice President and CFO who will discuss Altria's business segment results in more detail.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning.
In the Cigarette segment second quarter reported operating companies income increased by 5.9% to $1.5 billion primarily due to higher list prices and lower restructuring costs partially offset by lower volume higher FDA user fees and a $36 million charge for the Scott case.
Adjusted second quarter operating companies income which is calculated excluding restructuring costs but including the charge for the Scott case increased 2.8% to $1.5 billion.
Adjusted operating companies income margins were 39.7% including the Scott case.
PM U.S.A.
grew at second quarter sequential retail share 0.3 share points versus the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to Marlboro's share performance.
On a year-over-year basis PM U.S.A.'s second quarter Cigarette segment retail share declined by 0.9 share points to 49.3% due to retail share declines of 0.7 share points on its portfolio brands and 0.2 share points on Marlboro as the brand faced a difficult comparison versus its record retail share performance last year.
Reported Cigarette segment shipments declined by 0.7% but after adjusting primarily for the trade inventory changes Mike discussed declined by an estimated 4.5%.
PM U.S.A.
estimates that the overall cigarette categories adjusted volume declined by approximately 3.5% in the second quarter which is in line with historical price elasticity.
The Smokeless Products segments reported second quarter operating companies income increased by 12.1% to $222 million primarily due to higher pricing lower SG&amp;A and lower restructuring costs partially offset by lower volume.
Adjusted operating companies income which is calculated excluding restructuring costs increased by 10.9% to $224 million.
Copenhagen and Skoal demonstrated sequential share momentum in the second quarter gaining that combined 0.9 share points.
Skoal's second quarter retail share declined 0.3 share points year-over-year but increased 0.2 share points sequentially versus the first quarter of 2011.
Skoal has gained 0.5 share points since the fourth quarter of 2010.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.'s second quarter combined retail share decreased by 0.7 share points versus the year-ago period to 55.1% as Copenhagen share gains were more than offset by share declines in the rest of the portfolio.
Marlboro Snus volume and retail share comparisons were impacted by 2 factors.
First the brand had significantly lower levels of promotional activity compared to last year's national expansion.
Second new Marlboro Snus products launched earlier this year contained 15 pouches per tin compared to 6 pouches per foil pack in Marlboro's other 4 Snus packings.
This makes volume and retail share comparisons more difficult since the tin with 15 pouches is considered equivalent to a foil pack with 6 pouches.
Reported second quarter Smokeless Products shipments decreased by 2.1% but when adjusted primarily for new product pipeline volume trade inventories and discontinued SKUs adjusted volume grew by an estimated 4%.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.
estimate that the Smokeless Products category grew about 5% in the first half.
Middleton saw a sequential improvement in adjusted operating companies income and margins.
Adjusted operating companies income margins increased sequentially by 16.2 percentage points to 49.5% as Middleton more efficiently allocated Black &amp; Mild's promotional investments.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share performance in the second quarter benefited from brand building initiatives and the launch of untipped cigarillo varieties in both Classic and Sweets Blends.
Middleton shipment volume was essentially flat in the second quarter.
Ste.
Michelle delivered strong financial results in the second quarter as adjusted operating companies income which is calculated excluding restructuring in UST acquisition related costs increased by 11.8% to $19 million.
The Wine segment shipment volume in the second quarter benefited from higher off- and on-premise channel volume partially offset by changes in trade inventories.
The Financial Services segment reported an operating companies loss of $463 million in the second quarter resulting from the previously announced onetime charge related to the tax treatment of certain leverage leases.
Second quarter adjusted operating companies income which is calculated excluding the onetime charge was $27 million.
Altria continued to manage its cost structure delivering $80 million in cost savings this quarter.
We expect to achieve at least $30 million in additional cost savings by the end of the year and are on track to exceed our goal of $1.5 billion in cost reductions versus 2006.
Altria also delivered value to shareholders by returning cash to them through dividends and stock repurchases.
Altria paid almost $800 million in dividends in the second quarter and $1.6 billion in the first half reflecting our intention to return 80% of adjusted diluted EPS to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Also in the second quarter Altria repurchased $616 million of its common stock at an average price of $27.07.
We intend to complete our previously announced 2011 1 billion share repurchase program by the end of this year but the timing of any share repurchases depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors.
Dividends and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of our board.
Mike and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 34% in the second quarter.
Marlboro's net pack price in the quarter was $5.63 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.20.
The cigarette discount category second quarter retail share was 27.3%.
There were no cigarette excise tax increases effective in the first half of this year.
Effective July 1 3 states: Connecticut Hawaii and Vermont increased their excise taxes while New Hampshire lowered its excise tax by $0.10 per pack.
As a result of this activity the estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the beginning of the third quarter was $1.37 per pack.
Copenhagen second quarter retail price was $4.17 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 44% in the quarter.
As of June 30 2011 20 states in the District of Columbia used a weight-based smokeless tobacco excise tax system representing approximately 31% of the Smokeless Tobacco categories volume.
CapEx was $27 million in the second quarter and we anticipate that our 2011 full year CapEx will be approximately $160 million.
And finally depreciation and amortization was $61 million in the second quarter and Altria anticipates that its 2011 full year ongoing depreciation and amortization will be approximately $250 million.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Mike on UST now that you've owned that business for 2.5 years.
Can you put into context the overall performance the margin structure the market shares and market share trends versus where you had forecasted it in the acquisition plan? Well I would say in general the trends are in line with what our expectations were although a lot of things have changed since we put together the initial acquisition model not the least of which was we entered into a pretty significant recession.
But I think that in general what we were looking for was a focus on the premium brands Copenhagen and Skoal cost reduction significant cost reduction to fund it getting in line the price gaps so that these premium brands could grow.
And then kind of a Phase 2 approach which includes looking at efficiencies rationalizing the total portfolio so that it can become more efficient.
So that over time we're really focused on what we think are the key growth levers in that business.
And I would say we're making progress in line with what our expectations were.
We did Copenhagen first and now we've moved to Skoal Copenhagen remains on a nice growth trend.
And I think while it's early on Skoal the signs are right.
We still have some remodeling to do with that franchise.
It has a lot of SKUs and so we're -- as we adjust the franchise we’re also pruning some of that so we'll continue to have some effect from that kind of activity and we're also migrating share a bit from the discount portfolio that had been built up in USSTC before we acquired it.
I think on top of that you have this Snus phenomena which is -- kind of adds a bit of complexity to reading the data on the overall Smokeless business and that's still evolving.
And I don't know exactly where that's going to go longer term at this point.
I tend to see more interaction relative to total pouch segment of the total Smokeless business which would include Snus and MST pouches.
As time goes on more so than seeing Snus as kind of a separate business relative to the MST pouches business which is larger.
So that's still going to shake itself out.
But all in all we're trending in line with where we expected to trend and the margins are performing well.
The business is performing well.
The shares are moving in the right direction on Copenhagen and Skoal and the cost side of that business has come in the line quite nicely with some more opportunities I think in front of us.
So I'd say that's where it stands right now.
Okay.
And then if I could do one other quick question Mike.
What are the factors that lead you to expect stronger earnings per share growth in the second half of the year particularly given the fact that you're obviously coming into a period with higher trade inventory levels in cigarettes? Well inventories are always complex to look at.
You have to look at them -- you have to look at what occurred in the prior year as well as look at what's occurring in the current year to understand the effect.
But we also went up against a pretty good hill relative to comparisons last year when we introduced Marlboro Special Blend.
So we had a lot of activity on Special Blend and we had some tough comparisons this year on the Smokeless business.
So I think when we look at the year originally it appeared to us that the first half comparisons would be more difficult than the second half and that's why I think we're feeling pretty comfortable that we're in line with what our guidance spells out.
Our next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I just want to get some thoughts on the Marlboro leadership price program since you launched that during the quarter how is that kind of played out? And was it a net price a boost for a net price drag in the quarter? And any perspective on that would be helpful.
Well as I said before this is kind of an evolution of a program approach that we've had for a decade or more now.
So what happens when we make evolutionary changes in these programs is we always have a group of customers that jump on them immediately and then we have other customers who don't see that program as a strategic fit for their business and then we have customers who watch what happens in the marketplace and come on to the program over time.
I would say in this particular case we've had broad acceptance and participation in this program and that that's occurred pretty rapidly.
The program that we currently have as well as the ones in the past have always been created to help retailers use Marlboro as a competitive tool and so that's what this does and so we've seen some competitive increase competitive activity increase relative to Marlboro leadership.
I think that we saw some margin creep on Marlboro in the back half of last year as some retail margins expanded more on Marlboro than it did on other brands in the category.
It looks to us like in the second quarter that it came back in line with where it was prior to that creep occurrence.
So the gap for Marlboro versus the lowest in the second quarter of this year was identical to where it was in the second quarter last year.
And so that's been the impact.
I mean this is something that we're always paying attention to.
We evolve these programs.
We'll evolve this one as time goes on.
But so far it's pretty much in line with what we would have expected it to do and it's pretty consistent with the way these programs have functioned in the past.
And then just on the revenue per pack impact was this -- in the quarter was it a help or a drag on the net pricing? Well I would say relative to the cost side of our business really it didn't have any impact.
So it's transitioned from one program to another.
And when you look at our total value spend as a percentage of our total revenue that's remained pretty flat as well both for the quarters relative to previous year.
So I can't tell you that that carves out a significant impact.
More the impact is really in how retailers have chosen to compete in the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citigroup.
My first question has to do with the Other Premium segment of your cigarette portfolio.
Admittedly it is small.
But we saw some evidence in the quarter of increased promotion and it piqued my interest that you guys are calling out the percent of your cigarette shipments that skew to premium.
Does that mark at all a slight change in the way that you guys are thinking about managing your total cigarette portfolio with an emphasis not only on Marlboro but also on other premium brand? No.
I don't know what you're referring to but no I wouldn't suggest that to you at all.
Okay.
Fair enough.
The second question that I have is with respect to the Skoal destocking that occurred in the quarter.
When was that announced to the trade please? Well what we did was we launched some new SKUs and then after we launched those new SKUs we went about delisting some SKUs that we had planned on delisting so we kind of let one pick up the slack for the other.
We have some SKUs that -- and if you look at them collectively they had reasonable distribution.
But if you look at them individually they don't.
So they're not very efficient.
And some of that is due to the way the Skoal portfolio had been developed over time.
So we're doing a remodeling of that.
All of that took place at the beginning of April but it unfolds over a little bit of time in the marketplace as you might expect.
Absolutely.
And my last question on a related note is if you look at the Marlboro portfolio are there any individual SKUs that you would characterize kind of look similar to the full SKUs that you delisted i.e.
are there any opportunities to sort of rationalize the portfolio on Marlboro? Well we look at that all the time in the Cigarette business.
That's a regular cycle of analysis and the brand always has that on its agenda every year.
I can’t speak to any particular SKU.
In that business all of these SKUs tend to be pretty profitable.
So I can't suggest to you one that's a target but it is a subject that we review regularly not just for Marlboro but across the portfolio and we have done some delisting over time but like I said most of them are profitable.
So we only do that when it doesn't -- when it makes good sense to do it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I just have a couple of questions.
Just first in terms of the inventory trade distortions that you mentioned can you give us an idea of how much Marlboro shipment volumes would've been down in the quarter if you make the same adjustment to it for the trade inventory building? I can't.
Not off the top of my head.
LLC</strong> All right.
Then let's talk about the Marlboro sequential retail share gains in the quarter.
Can you give us an idea if the majority of these gains were primarily from new line extensions on the brand or styles that might be promoted more heavily? Do you have a sense of what was driving your retail share gains? Well I think that if you look at the brand's portfolio what you'll see is that we've experienced growth in menthol.
That's been going on for a while.
We also over time launched some new blends on Marlboro that are designed to appeal to competitive adult smokers non-menthol competitive adult smokers and we would expect to get some growth from that portfolio as well.
And so because menthol is a place where we're underdeveloped and because to attract competitive premium smokers you have to give them an offering that they find appealing.
We use some kinds of promotion activity on these brands to -- on these SKUs to go ahead and reach out to those folks.
But I might point out to you -- so we'd expect to see growth from those particular areas.
But I might point out to you as I said before in the context of all that the mix and Marlboro hasn't changed its percentage of that business in terms of value spend of its revenues remains relatively low versus most competitive brands and in fact is pretty constant.
So this isn't a big mix shift for us because we don't promote all of these things all the time.
We use some strategically.
So I don't know if that specifically answers your question but I think that's the appropriate way for you to think about it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Now that's helpful I appreciate it.
And then just one final question on your MLP program.
I was just curious if you can tell is approximately what percentage of your Marlboro volume is part of this program? We don't give out that information.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Mike just in terms of the cigarette category the Premium segment as you pointed out has been pretty resilient in this difficult economic environment.
Can you foresee that changing in any way and is there a risk that the price gap between Premium and the Discount segment which is I guess already at a below the historical level need to be at even there or to kind of sustain the Premium segment momentum? It seems to be sustaining just fine where it is so I think that actually the stability between premium and discount if you go back and look at it is pretty consistent for about a 15-year period now.
So I think that there's no trend there.
It's a pretty solid ratio and we've been consolidating.
If you look at our long-term growth trends I know people have some difficulty looking at short-term comparisons and trying to figure out what the long-term growth trends are but we do figure them out.
What you see is that Marlboro has been consolidating share in the Premium segment so it's -- business comes from people who are more inclined to smoke a high-quality premium product.
And I don't see anything changing that.
I do think that particularly in tough economic times you have to be thoughtful about how you manage your value equation and that includes how you manage your gap relative to the market.
And keep in mind the reason why the gap percentage is lower now than it was is because of the FET.
That FET is a mathematical adjustment that took a mid-40s gap down to a mid-30s gap just do to the math okay? So I think that that all occurred at the same time that we went into some tough economic times.
But nonetheless that's how that gap got to the mid-30s from the mid to lower-40s.
So no I think that that's something that you have to pay attention to but the Premium segment looks pretty healthy and Marlboro is very healthy within it.
Okay.
And then on the Smokeless side so it looks like category growth slowed down a little bit to about 5%.
I guess the last couple of years it's been running up 6% 7%.
Just wondering what's driving a bit of a moderation in terms of the category growth there? Well I sometimes hesitate to even include quarterly category growth trends because frankly category growth trends don't operate on quarterly curves.
They tend to be much longer term in their movement.
So I wouldn't get too caught up with it.
I think you saw some moderation in the decline rate in the Cigarette business.
You also saw a comparison versus a period where you had a high degree of activity introductory activity on Snus.
So all of those are little factors in the quarter's numbers but they aren't by any means indicative of any long-term trend issue.
So I wouldn't get too caught up in that.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have a couple of clarifications for Mike.
First thing on your guidance.
Just to understand your guidance is unchanged for the year despite greater debt now taken on in the second quarter and also includes the Scott charge as well as the expected inventory depletions in the third quarter.
Is that fair? That's correct.
Okay.
The second clarification on the Marlboro Snus.
Your press release indicated that the brand saw some tough comps against promoted volumes as well as the national rollout but your commentary also suggested the volumes in the pack the greater pouches per tin versus the foil which also had an impact on the volumes.
Is that right? That's correct.
We moved from a pack or we actually introduced some new SKUs that actually have 15 pouches which is consistent with competitive pouches and consistent with Skoal Snus while all of the packings on Marlboro Snus to that point had 6 pouches in them they were smaller packets.
The smaller packets are still out there but the introductory activity and much of the business is shifting to the 15 pack or 15 pouch package.
Okay.
So the underlying trends or maybe just some commentary on the brand and the category the level of spending required.
How do you see the Snus category here evolving relative to your expectations? Well as I mentioned I think it's increasingly difficult to segment out the Snus segment from pouches in general and the Smokeless business.
And so as we get more time on this business we're beginning to understand it in greater detail and understand the consumer dynamics and who the consumers are for these products and recognize that whenever there's a lot of promotion activity of the type that is taking place on Snus you'll have some transference of consumption that takes place simply because of the level of the deal activity that is there and I think we saw some of that between MST pouches which were the largest player relative to the Snus business which is all pouch business.
So we'll continue to monitor this.
I have some thoughts about whether or not we ought to really just be paying attention to pouches in general and then there are different types of pouches in the marketplace but we're still evaluating that.
Okay got it.
Then a question on cigars.
It looks now that you're certainly being proactive in looking at overseas contract manufacturing.
What's the timing on this? When do you expect this to kind of show up in your business and what kind of impact could that have on the profits? Well I'm not going to try and project the impact on the profits but we should be realizing shipments and impact on the offshore manufactured Cigar business prior to the end of the year.
Okay.
And then just last question on cost savings which came in pretty nicely in the quarter.
Was this accelerated purposely or not purposely and where would a lot of those cost savings have found themselves in the business? It's just across tobacco or in one segment in particular? Yes.
I think they were really across the business and a big part of the cost savings in the second quarter was related to SG&amp;A expense which then gets allocated across all the businesses.
And you're correct in that we had quite a significant reduction here in the second quarter.
But if you look at history the cost savings tend to come through a bit unevenly by quarter and we continue to feel we'll be on track and we'll probably even exceed a little bit our $1.5 billion cost reduction target by the end of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I had just a question for you a bit of a follow-up on Marlboro Menthol it seems like -- it sounds like it performed well in the quarter obviously menthol has been advantaged overall.
Do you think that you gained share in menthol in the quarter? Well we gained share on menthol in the half and I think we did in the quarter yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I was curious -- and as a bit of a follow-up to Christine's question on your offshore production for cigars.
Is there a certain percentage of your production maybe you don't want to give that or is it -- maybe this is more related to new products or just trying to get a scale of how much this could really shift your production? Well we're going to have some production offshore for some SKUs in our volume lineup.
We're not certainly not getting our production here in the U.S.
We continue to have strong production up in Pennsylvania.
So it's a portion.
We will have some offshore capacity variability that we can use based on what we think is appropriate.
But it's a portion of our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then the final question I had for you just to understand for the Skoal business the Skoal brand how much of that business is sold in pouches maybe that is being a little bit more negatively affected by the success of Snus? Well I can't give you the number off the top of my head but Skoal has the largest pouch business in the Smokeless business overall so it does have a large pouch business.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC</strong> I was just wondering if there any additional takeaways you can share with us on results from the increased brand building behind the MST business in Q1.
I know you touched on a little bit but any -- we saw sequential improvement in volume but were the programs in line with expectation do you need to change on and can you give us any color? No I think it's pretty much doing what it's supposed to do.
I think it's still early on Skoal X-tra so it's a little bit tough to reach Skoal X-tra while we're washing out the delisted SKUs.
But we're optimistic about it at this point and Copenhagen is doing very well.
So it's pretty much in line with what we expected.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then secondly as you think longer term for the business Mike are there any opportunities out there that you could add to your portfolio? Are there any areas where you could build the business? How can we think about gross longer term for Altria? Can you help me at all with that question? I'm sorry.
Give me your question again.
LLC</strong> As you think longer term for the business are there any areas or any opportunities that you think you could add to Altria? Any areas where you could build the business? Beyond smokeless cigars wine and cigarettes? LLC</strong> Or within those categories.
Well as I said before we continue to work in the area of alternative products for cigarette smokers so we do think that's an opportunity and we do have several projects underway in that particular area.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Santevecchi with Nomura.
Now that the revolver has been taken care of and the share buyback program is underway could you comment on your plans for the capital structure going forward and just how you guys plan on balancing debt repayment with share repurchases? Well I think we've communicated about this before.
We are focused on reducing our interest costs but I think as we've looked at some of the maturities we have coming up here over the next couple of years we entered the debt market this year really to be opportunistic in taking advantage of low rates.
And right now I think our plans had been communicated for this year.
We're well into our $1 billion share repurchase program and certainly the debt we've taken on this year and last year is at a substantially lower rate than the debt that was issued around the UST acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Well I just wanted to ask Mike a follow-up question with respect to the FDA and menthol.
Are you surprised or what do you read into the fact that the FDA intends to have its own assessment of the menthol science both peer reviewed and then published in the Federal Register? Was that what you had envisioned that they would do? Well I don't know that we envisioned what they would do.
But I would say that that is not an unusual process in the FDA and other areas.
So it is not without precedent that the FDA does in fact sometimes go out and have work peer reviewed and published as a part of being thorough in terms of their scientific analysis on a particular subject.
So it wasn't a surprise to see that.
We knew that was a methodology a process that's used sometimes by the FDA to make sure that they are happy with the science and evidence that they're utilizing to make regulatory decisions.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Graig Saloom with Citigroup.
I'm actually not a media representative.
I work in our municipal securities division.
I would like to ask 2 questions.
First do you see any meaningful positive or negative impact to shipment volumes from New York's recent enforcement of its August 2010 sales tax laws with respect to certain tribal sales? And 2 can you comment at all on the status of the NPM dispute under the MSA and the recent draft memorandum of understanding that was out in the market at the end of May? Well on first question just for perspective we had ceased shipping actually to wholesalers that were the primary supply chain that you're referring to relative to New York back in 2008.
So we didn't really have any impact on our shipments because of that.
I can't tell you longer term as that systemic change takes hold to what the impact might be but we had operated outside of that system for a while.
So it didn't really have any short-term impact on us at all.
Relative to the other question the NPM dispute that's been going on for a long time.
We've now entered into arbitration on the first year of that which is in 2003 which is a by-year arbitration that takes place sequentially.
So some point 2003 you'll get completed and then we'll move on to 2004 and so on.
There have been conversations with the states on this subject for a long time.
So I would say it's probably going to continue to play out over an extended period of time.
I can't provide much other insight than that.
You cannot comment on the draft MOU? What's the MOU? The memorandum of understanding.
The memorandum of understanding I can't.
I just don't -- I don't know that that's got a lot of bearing on this situation.
A complex situation with lots of different states with different issues different motivations and it's a complex issue.
I suspect played out over an extended period of time thus far.
It wouldn't surprise me if that continues to be the case.
[Operator Instructions] At this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for any closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining the call this morning.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria's 2011 business results for the third quarter and through the end of September and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria's business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior-year period unless otherwise stated.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Mike Szymanczyk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group Inc.
Thanks Brendan and good morning everyone.
Altria made significant progress in the third quarter on its plans to continue delivering strong returns to shareholders.
The company increased its dividends 7.9%.
It completed its previously announced $1 billion share repurchase program.
It exceeded its goal of achieving $1.5 billion of cost reductions and it grew its third quarter adjusted diluted EPS 3.7%.
And our consumer products businesses continue to expand their adjusted operating margins.
For the first 9 months of 2011 adjusted diluted EPS grew 4.8% and includes a $0.01 per share charge for the judgment paid in the Scott case.
In the cigarette segment Philip Morris U.S.A.
delivered strong third quarter adjusted operating income margin growth despite difficult comparisons which were impacted by trade inventory depletions in 2011 and strong operating companies income growth in Marlboro retail share performance in 2010.
PM U.S.A.'s reported cigarette volume declined 9% for the third quarter as the trade depleted inventories that had been built in the first half of this year.
After adjusting for trade inventories PM U.S.A.
estimates its cigarette shipment volume declined approximately 5%.
Marlboro's third quarter retail share was negatively impacted by relative changes in manufacturers' promotional activities.
Following PM U.S.A.'s July 2011 list price increase Marlboro's retail price increased more than major competitive premium and discount brands as PM U.S.A.
focused on growing its adjusted operating companies income margins.
As we have stated before PM U.S.A.'s objective in the cigarette category is to maximize income growth while maintaining modest retail share momentum on Marlboro.
PM U.S.A.
balances these objectives over time rather than focusing on quarter-to-quarter income and share results that may fluctuate on a short-term basis due to the timing of Marlboro's new products and brand building initiatives as well as competitive activity and trade inventory dynamics.
PM U.S.A.
is willing to accept short-term negative retail share comparisons on Marlboro as it balances these objectives.
We remain confident in Marlboro's brand strength as its equity loyalty rates and adult demographics remain strong.
In the smokeless products segment USSTC delivered strong adjusted operating companies income and margin growth driven by Copenhagen and Skoal.
In the cigars segment John Middleton achieved double-digit growth in net revenues and operating companies income and delivered strong adjusted operating companies income margin growth in the third quarter.
In the Wine segment Ste.
Michelle delivered excellent financial and volume results as it continue to focus on improving its mix to higher-margin premium products.
Overall we are pleased with our business results through the first 9 months of the year which were achieved in a difficult economic environment marked by intense competition in our tobacco businesses.
We believe that we are on track to achieve solid adjusted earnings per share results for the full year.
We are reaffirming our adjusted diluted EPS guidance as we expect to deliver EPS growth in the range of 6% to 9% for the full year or $2.01 to $2.07 off an adjusted base of $1.90 per share in 2010.
This adjusted EPS guidance includes $0.01 per share charge related to the Scott case.
We also expect to achieve reported diluted EPS in the range of $1.60 to $1.66 per share.
In the third quarter Altria completed its previously announced share repurchase and cost reduction programs.
Yesterday Altria's board approved 2 new initiatives to build on this year's progress and support our goal delivering average annual adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7% to 9% over time.
First the board authorized the new $1 billion share repurchase program as part of Altria's ongoing commitment to return cash to shareholders.
Altria intends to complete this new program by the end of 2012 but the timing of such purchases depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors.
And the program is subject to the discretion of the board Second following the completion of our 2007 to 2011 program we have announced the new cost reduction program which is primarily focused on cigarette-related infrastructure costs.
As you are aware cigarette industry volume has declined significantly following the 158% increase in the federal excise tax in April 2009 resulting in our need to continue reducing cigarette-related infrastructure.
Altria expects this new cost reduction program to deliver $400 million in estimated annualized cost savings by the end of 2013.
Altria estimates total pretax restructuring charges of approximately $375 million with approximately $340 million being recorded in the fourth quarter of this year.
A substantial portion of the charges will result in cash expenditures related primarily to employee separation costs of approximately $300 million.
The charges also reflect other associated costs including lease termination and asset impairment.
Altria's made consistent progress in this challenging economic environment.
Marked by volatility in the financial markets slow economic growth high unemployment and low consumer confidence.
We believe that our strong brand positions outstanding people high dividend yield focus on cost management and the past consistency of our adjusted EPS growth continue to differentiate Altria positively from other investment alternatives.
Altria grew its adjusted diluted EPS 6.1% in 2009 and 8.6% in 2010 and expects to grow its 2011 full year adjusted diluted EPS in the range of 6% to 9%.
Altria believes that the ongoing performance of its businesses along with its new share repurchase and cost reduction initiatives will allow it to deliver 2012 adjusted diluted EPS growth that is consistent with this past performance.
I will now turn the call over to Howard Willard Altria's Executive Vice President and CFO who will discuss Altria's business segment results in more detail.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning.
Third quarter reported operating companies income in the cigarette segment decreased 0.8% to $1.5 billion primarily due to lower shipment volume as the trade depleted inventory build in the first half of the year and higher FDA user fees partially offset by higher list prices and lower restructuring costs.
When adjusted for restructuring costs third quarter operating companies income decreased 2.4% to $1.5 billion.
In the third quarter adjusted operating companies income margins increased 1.5 percentage points to 41.7% and were higher than those of our principal competitors.
Reported operating companies income for the first 9 months increased 4.5% to $4.4 billion primarily due to higher list prices and lower restructuring costs partially offset by lower shipment volume higher FDA user fees and the $36 million charge for the Scott case.
Adjusted operating companies income for the first 9 months which is calculated excluding restructuring costs but including the Scott case charge grew 2.2%.
Our cigarette segment's operating companies income margins for the first 9 months increased 1.1 percentage points to 40.3%.
For the first 9 months of 2011 PM U.S.A.
grew its adjusted operating companies income per pack and adjusted operating companies income margins faster than its principal competitors.
PM U.S.A.
and Marlboro's volume comparisons for the third quarter were impacted by trade inventory dynamics.
PM U.S.A.'s reported domestic cigarette volume for the third quarter declined 9% primarily due to trade inventory reductions and retail share losses.
For the first 9 months of 2011 PM U.S.A.'s volume declined 5.4%.
When adjusted primarily for trade inventories PM U.S.A.
estimates that its volume declined approximately 5% for both time periods.
The total cigarette category volume was estimated to be down approximately 3.5% for both the third quarter and first 9 months of this year.
Through the first 9 months of the year PM U.S.A.
has delivered solid adjusted operating companies income growth and increased its adjusting operating income margins while retaining some of the strong share gains achieved last year for Marlboro.
In the smokeless products segment reported operating companies income increased 16.7% for the third quarter to $245 million and 12.6% to $660 million for the first 9 months due primarily to higher pricing and lower SG&amp;A costs.
When adjusted for restructuring and UST acquisition-related costs operating companies income increased 15.5% to $246 million for the third quarter and 10.1% to $664 million for the first 9 months.
Adjusted operating companies income margins for both the third quarter and the first 9 months increased 3.1 percentage points.
Total smokeless products shipment volume declined 2/10 of a percent for the third quarter and 1.2% for the first 9 months as shipment declines in other portfolio brands including Marlboro Snus were partially offset by volume growth for Copenhagen and Skoal.
Marlboro Snus volume was negatively impacted by lower levels of promotional activity compared to last year's national expansion and the shift in mix with packages with 6 pouches to tins with 15 pouches.
After adjusting for trade inventories USSTC and PM U.S.A.'s combined smokeless segment volume was estimated to be up approximately 5% and 4% respectively for the third quarter and first 9 months of 2011.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.
believe that total smokeless category volume grew by approximately 5% for the first 9 months.
Copenhagen and Skoal's combined volume grew 6.8% and their combined retail share grew 1.4 share points in the third quarter.
Copenhagen continue to deliver strong volume and share results supported by recent product introductions including Copenhagen Wintergreen pouches.
Skoal grew its volume for the third quarter as it benefited from new products introduced earlier this year which were partially offset by the delisting of 7 SKUs in the second quarter.
Skoal's third quarter share retail share declined 3/10 of a share point sequentially due impart of the impact of the delisting of the 7 SKUs.
We are encouraged by Skoal's quarterly retail share performance which has been relatively stable since the fourth quarter of 2010 despite the impact of the SKU reductions.
Overall USSTC has delivered strong financial results in the smokeless products segment so far this year.
Copenhagen continues to deliver strong results and Skoal continues to transition as it benefits from brand building initiatives and new product introductions such as Skoal X-tra while streamlining its SKUs.
In the cigars segment Middleton increased its third quarter reported and adjusted operating companies income by 27.9% to $55 million.
While the cigars segment adjusted operating companies income was down 15.6% to $124 million for the first 9 months Middleton's results have shown sequential improvement since the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted operating companies margin increased 2.7 percentage points to 50.5% for the third quarter.
Margin stability in the second and third quarters has given Middleton an adjusted operating companies margin of 45.9% for the first 9 months of 2011.
Middleton cigar volumes increased 3.7% for the quarter and 1.8% for the first 9 months.
Middleton's third quarter cigar volumes benefited from new product introductions and increases in trade inventories.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share declined half a share point 29.2% for the third quarter but was up 4/10 of a share point for the first 9 months of this year and sequentially versus the second quarter of 2011.
The brand's retail share performance so far this year has benefited from brand building initiatives and new product introductions including the launch of untipped cigarillos in both Classic and Sweets blends.
In the fourth quarter Middleton plans to nationally introduce an untipped version of Black &amp; Mild Wine which along with Black &amp; Mild Sweets and Classic will be available in a new Aroma Wrap foil pouch.
In the Wine segment Ste.
Michelle's reported operating companies income increased 91.7% to $23 million for the third quarter and 74.2% to $54 million for the first 9 months.
Adjusted operating companies income increased 41.2% to $24 million for the third quarter and 26.1% to $58 million for the first 9 months.
Adjusted operating companies income margins increased 2.2 percentage points to 18.9% for the quarter and 1.7 percentage points to 17.3% for the first 9 months.
Wine shipment volume increased 19.7% for the third quarter and 8.9% in the first 9 months.
These strong business results reflects Ste.
Michelle's focus on premium higher-margin products.
The financial services segment's third quarter reported operating companies income was $83 million an increase of $56 million primarily due to a decrease in the allowance for losses and higher gains on asset sales.
PMCC assesses the adequacy of its allowance for losses relative to the credit risk of its leasing portfolio on an ongoing basis.
For the third quarter PMCC decreased its allowance for losses based on management's assessment of the credit quality of its leasing portfolio including reductions in exposure to below investment grade lessees resulting in $35 million of additional operating companies income for the third quarter and first 9 months.
The allowance for losses at the end of the third quarter was $167 million versus $202 million at the end of the second quarter of 2011.
Altria also delivered value to shareholders by returning cash to them through dividends and share repurchases.
The company paid almost $800 million in dividends in the third quarter and $2.4 billion in the first 9 months reflecting our objective of returning 80% of adjusted diluted EPS to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Altria completed its previously announced $1 billion share repurchase program in the third quarter by repurchasing $14.8 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $25.93 for a total cost of $384 million.
For the total program Altria repurchased $37.6 million at an average price of $26.62.
Mike and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective priced cigarette was 36% for the third quarter.
Marlboro's net pack price in the quarter was $5.74 while the lowest effective priced cigarette was $4.22.
The cigarette discount categories third quarter retail share was 27.9%.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the third quarter was $1.37 per pack.
Copenhagen's third quarter retail price was $4.23 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 43% in the quarter.
CapEx was $35 million for the third quarter and we anticipate that our 2011 full year CapEx will be approximately $125 million.
And finally depreciation and amortization was $63 million for the third quarter and Altria anticipates that its 2011 full year ongoing depreciation and amortization will be approximately $250 million.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask you a question.
In terms of the Marlboro brand could you characterize your promotion in the quarter.
Was promotional spending for the brand up or down? Obviously it sounds like maybe it was down in relation to certainly competition.
Was that a factor in the market share decline in the quarter? Well our percent revenue promoted has remained pretty constant this year.
So we didn't do anything unusual in the third quarter.
We faced actually a tough comp in the quarter from several directions from a inventory point of view from a market share point of view.
Our market share in the third quarter a year ago was 42.6% which was the record share for the year that we achieved in 2010.
So when we look at it we felt like we kept in line with what we thought was the goal here which was to maximize income.
But then to make sure that we're maintaining some modest momentum on this brand over time and so I wouldn't get too caught up with the particular share result in the quarter it's a function of a lot of things.
If you look at Marlboro's share over the last few years what you'd see is that there's about 1.5 share point deviation spread that the brand's operated in.
And I think that when we get inside the numbers what we see is that it's pretty much related to promotion-sensitive consumers.
Every brand has a percentage of their makeup in promotion-sensitive consumers.
Marlboro's level of that is lower than most because it has a very high brand loyalty and the brand loyalty has maintained itself even as we've gone through some tough economic times.
But competitive activity as well as our own level of promotion spending does have an influence on this promotion-sensitive group so we see some share deviation up and down that takes place based on those variables.
And that's what you got going on and you've had it going on this year as we faced the record share level last year where we had a lot of activity related to the launch of our Special Blend lineup.
So I couldn't tell you there was anything exceptional there.
We did see Marlboro's price go up relative to primary competitive brands during the quarter following pricing activity at the very beginning of the quarter at retail.
And so that has some I think short-term impact.
But gaps for Marlboro stayed in the range they've been in for the previous time since the FET increase which is the mid-30s we haven't seen much change there.
That's relative to the lowest-priced products.
There was some gap expansion versus some of the other premium brands during the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just a follow-up question to that.
Are you seeing growth in if we can call it sort of the deep discount category is there any sort of noticeable change there? And then I would also like to talk about maybe a shift in some other categories whether it be roll-your-own or little cigars? Is that also a factor that maybe could play in the cigarettes say over the next 12 month or so? Well if you look at the overall range of big brands in the category and you look at the discount segment overall what you'll see is that over the -- since the FTE since actually the beginning of this downward economic cycle which is 2008 they've all modulated in a range and they pretty much stayed in that range.
The discount business has modulated in a range in the mid to high '20s.
Marlboro has modulated in a range as I described and you'll see that in some other brands particularly premium brands.
In the discount segment you've seen some consolidation within the segment though and that was primarily driven by Pall Mall.
You see a few other brands that share shifts around 2 within the discount segment.
But all of that has actually behaved in a pretty stable way.
Now I think what you're referring to are things like roll-your-own small cigars at one time played a role in terms of some interaction with the cigarette business down at the bottom.
You see some of that going on.
That's actually not a new thing.
It ebbs and flows sometimes the particular product that becomes a focal point is new.
But for the shopper that's looking for the very cheapest thing that they can find in the smokable segment there's always something that is moving around in that regard.
And it does have some nominal impact but I wouldn't say that recently there's been any significant impact on the overall category related to that kind of activity.
We don't play there so we really don't participate at the lowest price arena in the categories.
So this does not have much of an impact on our business but it can have some impact on I think overall discount segment at the very bottom of the segment where you have shoppers that are looking for the very lowest-priced products that they can find.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I just -- one more question.
Do you see your inventory levels now at call it normalized levels going forward or as you enter Q4? They're low.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just kind of wanted to go back on Marlboro and on your very strong margins.
China maybe hear from you how you're trying to strike the right balance between your profits and share.
Marlboro retail share is down year-over-year and sequentially as you mentioned.
So with the long term is your goal to strike a better balance between the 2 or are you comfortable with the trends from this quarter were to continue? Well first of all I don't see the quarter as a trend.
It's simply an outcome from the factors that took place in the quarter.
And again I'd point out that there is a certain portion of the brand.
In Marlboro's case it's about 10% of the brand that is what we call alternate purchasers there.
90% of that franchise is made up of consumers that say that they buy the brand 100% of the time and that has remained pretty constant.
So among these alternate purchase group you do see activity with these people that's stimulated by promotion.
And in a bad economic environment you'd see more switching among that group because they're shopping for deals among a group of brands that they qualify as acceptable to them.
So when we look at it it's really a matter of how much money do you want to spend at any point in time relative to that group because you know in some ways you're renting share.
And so we look at that regularly and we make decisions about what we think is appropriate in balancing our objective to maximize profit while we maintain some modest momentum on the brand.
But we just don't look at share as the way we understand the health of the brand.
We look at other underlying factors that actually are more important to understanding the health of the brand.
And those factors remain very strong for Marlboro.
So we monitor all of that on a regular basis.
But like I say these kinds of deviations we've seen over the past few years as we've been in a tough economy it's not in fact the best economic environment to really try and grow share because of the difficult circumstances.
Some consumers are in.
So you want to make sure that you're maintaining your equity strength doing sensible things to build that equity and at the same time being involved in the promotion activity that is always going to be in any category to a reasonable level but understanding that at the end of day the objective with the franchise is to try to make money with it.
So I would say we're pretty comfortable with where we are and we're simply managing this franchise the way we think is best for its long-term benefit to the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful and I appreciate the detail.
Just another quick question on Marlboro Menthol.
Can you talk how that brand performed during the quarter? Well I don't think we've given out the specifics but Marlboro Menthol has been a growth franchise for us.
And so over the long term I think it's performed just well.
We haven't given out the specific shares for the quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike the operating income for PM U.S.A.
through the 9 months is up about 2% on an underlying basis.
That's clearly below the level generated over the last couple of years.
Is there something beyond the economy and maybe some modest increase in competitive intensity that's accounting for that slow down or is that really the explanation? Well it was up a bit more as we went through the first half and then this is a quarter of tough comparisons.
The comparisons are a bit different as we get into the fourth quarter.
But I would say certainly you have a difficult economic environment and so you're managing all the factors related to the brand including the competitive marketplace as well in this kind of environment.
So it does put some downward pressure on the category overall.
I'd hasten to point out though your 2.2% that you referred to includes a $36 million charge for Scott which is a onetime charge.
So it actually is on an ongoing basis a bit better than that.
Research Division</strong> Fair point.
Okay.
Secondly Mike clearly this quarter or starting this quarter there's been some flowback of volumes from New York state Native American reservations to conventional retail outlets.
And government data would indicate that you were substantially under-shared in that venue.
And I'm curious to what extent do you think that dynamic has adversely affected your -- the retail market share data that you've disclosed? Well you can estimate these things a bit although I again would hasten to point out that when we use these kind of statistical share panels and ours is proprietary but it's constructed in a way that's similar to the syndicated panels that you'll see more publicly available that these panels are representations and so the absolute shares aren't necessarily precise.
It's the trends that you're trying to derive as you look at these panels is why I always kind of encourage people not to get too caught up with quarters.
You really have to look at the stuff over a longer period of time to make really good use out of it.
But relative to what you're referring to there was some significant competitive volume that was being shipped through channels that are not measured by these types of panels.
And with the change of the enforcement in New York that volume which was not tax paid volume moved.
Best that we can tell it moved down to some lower tax jurisdiction states and is being picked up now on these panels.
The best we can approximate David is it had a negative -- about a negative 2/10 of a share point effect on Marlboro.
That doesn't mean that that's a volume change.
It just simply means that volume that was out there not these panels moved into the panels.
And so from our perspective it doesn't really have any bearing on the way we look at the business but it does have a nominal effect on the numbers but not the trends.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Mike.
Can you articulate sort of on a multiyear view from here what the pathway is for Skoal to be able to gain market share? Yes.
Look this is the year where we really have worked kind of reconfigured the Skoal franchise to get it properly positioned.
To get the SKUs rationalized and to get the product offering right so that it's relevant to the market as it exists today.
And we're still in the midst of that although I think that what we've seen is the brand stabilized over the last 4 quarters.
It was declining.
We're still working against a base where there are a number of SKUs.
They're in the base that we have since discontinued.
And we've launched some new SKUs that we think better position the brand and they're building and offsetting some of that loss.
So we have to lap all of that before we really understand where we are with the Skoal brand.
But actually we're pretty pleased it stabilized and it looks like what we've put into place is beginning to perform properly.
And hopefully what we'll see once we kind of get past this period of our reconstructing the brand we'll see some steady growth.
I think it's important to point out though that Skoal doesn't operate a vacuum it exists in the category with other brands.
One of which is Copenhagen and Copenhagen is showing really strong growth.
And so Skoal has to compete with that and we're not quite as far along with Skoal as we are with Copenhagen.
So I think that does have a bearing on the numbers as well.
But combined Skoal and Copenhagen are doing quite nicely.
Your first question comes from the line of Michael Felberbaum from the Associated Press.
Two questions for you on the kind of related question.
On the cost savings program that you guys have announced today.
There was a mention of employee separation cost.
Can you give a little bit more color on what exactly that mean are we talking about layoffs within the cigarette production? And can you talk a little more about overall what you're seeing? Obviously industry -- cigarette industry volumes continue to decline and this cost reduction program was necessary because of that.
Can you talk a little bit about more on what we're seeing in the marketplace? Well I'll take your second question first.
Since the April 2009 FET you've seen some pretty substantial declines in overall industry cigarette volume.
Albeit they've been consistent with historical price elasticity nonetheless there's pretty significant tax increase and so we had a significant impact on volume.
And as we've said all along one of the things that you're going to have to do in this business is as volume declines and that business you have to takeout cigarette-related infrastructure cost in order to manage the business properly you can't carry infrastructure for a business that was originally designed for a bigger business.
You have to continue to shrink it as the overall business shrinks.
And so that's all that's going on.
In the current year we've seen a little bit of moderation of the decline rate.
Looks like it's running about 3.5% these days.
Nonetheless it's still a significant decline rate for the cigarette category.
As to the specifics of what we're going to be doing relative to our employees the way the rules work we have to disclose this first publicly before we can really address it with our employee base.
So I'm going to suggest that you call media affairs later on today if you want more detailed information about what specifically we're doing because I'm going to address this with my employees before I address it with you.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mike can you talk a little bit about the MLP adjustments how would you assess the impact that that has on your business so far this year? And then if you could talk a little bit about maybe trends that you're seeing in the MLP stores versus the non-MLP stores.
And then to the extent that this program adjustment was made this year are you in some ways surprised to see the Marlboro market share actually not up a little bit more just given the changes and how should we think about that as you're lapping it next year just to the consumers the ability for the consumers to actually not see the benefit of the MLP program? Well as I've described before these trade programs aren't new so the MLP program is not like it's a new piece of spending that's out in the marketplace relative to the trade.
It's just a redesign of that.
The program remains pretty stable in the marketplace and has a relatively strong participation rate.
Pretty much in line with what we've seen in the past.
In general retailers that are participating in these kinds of programs generally have stronger market shares than retailers that aren't participating on it.
So that's not just the case for MLP it's the case in general as we've seen these programs work in history.
It's pretty hard to kind of segment out individual pieces of the marketing puzzle on a brand and ascribe particular share results to them.
I don't know how to do that.
I would just say that the program seems to be effective seems to be of interest to a good percentage of retailers and they are participating in it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the cost savings program can you maybe help us think about the phasing of the savings.
Is this half next year and then another half in 2013? And then maybe the bucket of where the cost savings could hit SG&amp;A cost of goods sold and would this be more in the PM U.S.A.
operating unit? Well again as we stated in the release this is cigarette and cigarette-related infrastructure.
So it's focused on Philip Morris U.S.A.
and it's focused on our service companies to the degree that they are servicing Philip Morris U.S.A.
And it's salaried-related so it is not focused on our hourly headcount in our factories or our hourly operation.
Actually the cost structure on that side has actually kept pretty much in line with cigarette volume decline.
So that's where it's centered.
We put out the total by the end of 2013 and as has generally been our practice as we accrue savings.
We generally let people know that when we do quarters but we don't do it in advance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally I know we haven't talk about this in a bit but just in terms of how you're thinking about your alcoholic beverage portfolio.
I know you've made a decision for the time being that it does make sense to keep it under your business but any update or thoughts there? No there's nothing that's changed there.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Mike just a quick question on L&amp;M.
We're certainly picking up a lot more investment behind that brand in the trade.
Just curious your thoughts behind that is it seems like you've kind of de-emphasizing your discount portfolio and now you're seeing kind of a reemergence of support.
I know L&amp;M has good demographics so could you just provide any context on that? And then the second question is for Howard.
If you think about the inventory situation as well as some of the price protection that was put into place when those price increase went through do you have an understanding of how much that's affected net pricing? Well why don't you go ahead Howard and talk about the impact at pricing? Sure.
I mean as you look at our net price per pack in the quarter it was up.
But as you pointed out there was clearly an impact from the inventory de-loaded in the third quarter versus the first half.
I hesitate to tease out exactly what the impact was on the net price per pack.
We've sort of indicated that on an adjusted basis we thought our volume was down about 5%.
But clearly there was an impact in the quarter.
And Nick your other question was specifically related to L&amp;M? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Look we put L&amp;M out in the marketplace in a program several years ago to begin to offset some decline in the Basic brand.
So Basic was always kind of a regionalized brand in terms of where it had its strength.
And so in some other geographies where we didn't have much of a business in Basic we put a different positioning in which was L&amp;M.
And so we've seen kind of slow steady growth on L&amp;M over the past several years.
We saw a bit of growth on it here in the quarter but it remains a relatively small brand.
We don't have a -- any change of strategy relative to discount.
But we do have a certain amount of discount share that was predominantly positioned in Basic.
And so we're -- as we see the Basic brand kind of decline we're trying to go ahead and pick that share up with L&amp;M.
Your next question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays Capital.
Just wanted to see if you could discuss potential funding of your share repurchase program the new billion dollar program that you've announced whether you look to fund it incremental debt similar to what happened earlier this year or potentially out of free cash flow.
And just secondly do you have a $600 million debt maturity coming up next July related to legacy UST paper? Do you have plans in place right now to address that and if you could provide a color that will be great.
Sure.
Well as you know we've issued some debt earlier this year.
I'm not going to comment on our future issuance plans.
But we feel that we have multiple sources of cash to fund the $1 billion share repurchase program through the end of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just have a quick follow-up question for you.
Just a quick follow-up on Marlboro.
You've had a lot of new product activity or brand extensions for that brand.
Were those a factor year-over-year in some of the share decline? I know you don't like to give some detail on these individual brands but just collectively if that was a factor.
And then also related to that I'd like to understand if that is a factor for helping stabilize or grow the share going forward as I assumed there's continued activity in the Marlboro brand we should expect to see in future quarters and years.
Well much of the deviation that you see quarter-over-quarter is really related to promotion activity.
And so we can have variability depending on what we promoted a year ago and what we promoted this year.
So and that's -- some of that like as I've mentioned Special Blend was launched a year ago so it had a higher level of promotion activity.
So you can see some deviation related to that because it's a year of following the launch here.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for closing comments.
Thanks everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any additional follow-up questions please contact us in Investor Relations later today.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria's management and a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria's 2011 business results for the fourth quarter and full year and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today's earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria's business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Altria's management also reviews operating companies income operating margins and EPS on an adjusted basis which excludes certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations.
Last month Altria announced that it would also include charges for tobacco and health judgments from adjusted financial calculations.
References to adjusted financial calculations on today's call reflect this redefinition.
Today's call also contains various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior year period unless otherwise stated.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Mike Szymanczyk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group Inc.
Thanks Brendan and good morning everyone.
Altria has delivered strong returns for its shareholders in 2011 in a challenging business environment while taking steps to continue creating shareholder value into the future.
Altria grew its adjusted diluted earnings per share by 7.9% which is consistent with adjusted EPS results over the past few years.
Altria delivered total shareholder return of 26.9% in 2011 outperforming the return of the S&amp;P 500 for the 12th consecutive year.
Dividends remain an important component of Altria's shareholder return.
The company paid out approximately 80% of its adjusted diluted EPS in dividends and increased its dividend by 7.9% in August.
Altria also repurchased $1.3 billion of its shares in 2011 at an average price of $26.91 per share.
Altria intends to complete the balance of the October 2011 $1 billion repurchase program by the end of 2012 subject to the discretion of the Board.
Altria completed its previously announced $1.5 billion cost-savings program ahead of schedule in the third quarter of 2011.
Following the completion of this program we announced a new program that we expect to deliver annualized cost savings of $400 million versus previously planned spending by the end of 2013.
Altria continues to focus on developing lower-risk products that appeal to adult tobacco consumers.
To support this goal Altria Client Services has entered into an agreement with Okono an affiliate of the Danish company Fertin Pharma to develop innovative noncombustible-nicotine-containing products for adult tobacco consumers.
Fertin is a global leader in the development and manufacture of nicotine gum with additional capabilities and other products and technologies.
This new product initiative combines the expertise of the Altria family of companies with Okono and its affiliates product development and manufacturing capabilities.
Altria's operating companies delivered strong 2011 profitability.
Adjusted operating companies income and margins grew in cigarettes smokeless products and wine.
These gains were partially offset by declines in adjusted operating companies income in cigars and financial services.
Earnings from our equity investment in SABMiller also contributed to Altria's profitability.
PM U.S.A.
continued to focus on maximizing income from its cigarette business while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro over time.
In 2011 higher pricing and effective cost management helped PM U.S.A.
grow its adjusted operating companies income and margins which exclude the impact of restructuring charges and tobacco and health judgments.
Marlboro retained some of its strong share gains that contributed to a record retail share performance of 2010 as its full year share in 2011 is higher than its 2009 share.
Marlboro's retail share gains 2010 were exceptionally strong due to an attractive introductory offer on Marlboro’s Special Blend.
Marlboro share decline in 2010 versus 2010 reflects PM U.S.A.'s focus on growing income and margins and not building the brand on price promoted share.
Marlboro's underlying brand equity remains strong.
Price gaps continue to be stable and retail share deviations that Marlboro experienced in 2011 were driven by short-term year-over-year changes in promotional spending in the marketplace that influence promotion-sensitive adult consumers.
PM U.S.A.'s income and margins benefited from our continued focus on equity-driven premium brands.
Premium brands represented over 93% of PM U.S.A.'s cigarette shipments last year a much higher premium mix than its competitors.
Marlboro plans to continue to focus on brand-building initiatives and equity-enhancing new products and programs in 2012.
PM U.S.A.
recently launched Marlboro Black with packaging in non-menthol and menthol varieties to distinguish the product's bold flavor.
Marlboro has other exciting plans for 2012 and 2013 some of which we will share at the CAGNY conference.
In the smokeless products segment USSTC and PM U.S.A.
delivered strong full year adjusted operating companies income growth behind Copenhagen and Skoal.
On a combined basis Copenhagen and Skoal grew their volume faster than the category and gained retail share in 2011.
Copenhagen had a very strong volume and share performance last year as the brand benefited from continued momentum from new products introduced over the past few years as well as Wintergreen Pouches introduced in 2011.
Skoal grew its volume behind the launch of Skoal X-tra varieties and 2 new Skoal Snus products.
The brand's full year retail share declined as share losses including those from 7 SKUs delisted in the second quarter of 2011 offset gains from Skoal's new products.
This SKU delisting will continue to impact Skoal's retail share performance comparisons in the first half of 2012.
However we believe that the actions taken on Skoal during 2011 have stabilized the brand and positioned it for growth.
In the cigar segment Middleton made significant progress during the year to improve its competitive position in a marketplace where low-priced imported cigars continue to grow.
Middleton's income and margin performance was much stronger in the second half of 2011 compared to the first half driven by more efficient promotion of Black &amp; Mild.
New products and packaging enhanced Middleton's competitive position in the untipped cigarillo segment where it is not historically focused.
Black &amp; Mild introduced untipped Sweets Classic and Wine varieties last year as well as a new Aroma Wrap foil pouch packaging.
Middleton also began shipping cigars manufactured under its overseas contract manufacturing arrangement during the fourth quarter of 2011.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle delivered excellent full year operating companies income growth while expanding its adjusted operating companies income margins.
Wine shipment volume growth was also strong as Ste.
Michelle expanded the distribution of its premium products.
Altria forecasts its 2012 adjusted diluted EPS will increase by 6% to 9% to a range of $2.17 to $2.23 from an adjusted base of $2.05 per share in 2011.
We also expect to achieve reported diluted EPS in the range of $2.14 to $2.20 per share.
Today we also announced that I have informed our Board of my intention to retire as Chairman and CEO effective immediately following this year's annual meeting of shareholders on May 17.
It has been an extraordinary experience to lead the reshaping of Altria following the completion of the Kraft and Philip Morris International spinoffs.
I believe the company is well positioned to continue to prosper.
As I near retirement now is the time to transition leadership to people of an age to guide the company through its next phase of growth.
I am very pleased that our Board has elected Marty Barrington to succeed me as Chairman and CEO upon my retirement.
And I am equally pleased that they have elected Dave Beran to work with Marty as President and Chief Operating Officer effective at the same time.
Marty has held various roles in the Altria family of companies since 1993 including Vice Chairman and Chief Compliance Officer and as General Counsel of both PM U.S.A.
and Philip Morris International.
And these and other roles he has participated in the work of virtually every business function of the Altria family of companies through direct business responsibility for regulatory and external affairs; research and development; human resources and compliance as well as working closely with marketing sales strategy and business development and operations.
This unique background gives the Board and me personally great confidence in his ability to lead Altria's businesses going forward.
Moreover I believe the combination of Marty's expertise Dave's extensive operations marketing and financial background and the talents of the rest of the Altria leadership team will create the strongest executive team among consumer packaged goods companies.
I will now turn the call over to Howard Willard Altria's Chief Financial Officer who will discuss Altria's business results in more detail.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning everyone.
The cigarette segment's reported operating companies income results for the fourth quarter were negatively impacted by higher restructuring charges related to the cost reduction program we announced in October and adverse judgments in the Bullock and Williams cases that we announced in December partially offset by higher list prices.
Reported operating companies income for cigarettes decreased 5.4% for the fourth quarter.
Cigarette segment operating companies income for the full year increased 2.3% to $5.6 billion on a reported basis primarily due to higher list prices partially offset by lower volume higher restructuring charges associated with our new cost reduction program charges related to adverse judgments in the Bullock Scott and Williams cases and higher FDA user fees.
Excluding charges for restructuring and tobacco and health judgments adjusted cigarette segment operating companies income grew 13.7% for the fourth quarter and 5.2% to $5.9 billion for the full year.
PM U.S.A.'s focus on margin expansion helped drive these results.
PM U.S.A.
grew its 2011 adjusted operating companies income margins by 3.2 percentage points for the fourth quarter and 1.8 percentage points for the full year bringing its adjusted margin for the full year to 40.2%.
PM U.S.A.'s reported cigarette shipment volume declined 4% for the full year and was also down an estimated 4% when adjusted for trade inventories and one less shipping day.
PM U.S.A.
estimates that the total cigarette categories adjusted volume declined 3.5% in 2011 the lowest decline rate since 2006.
PM U.S.A.
believes that the historical price elasticity estimated at negative 0.3 remains unchanged and that the secular decline rate which reflects societal trends in adult consumers shifts from cigarette to smokeless and other tobacco products has been stable for several years.
PM U.S.A.'s volume in the fourth quarter increased by 0.2% primarily due to trade inventory dynamics and retail share gains for L&amp;M partially offset by retail share losses on Marlboro and its other brands as well as one less shipping day.
Marlboro's fourth quarter and full year retail share declined 0.7 and 0.6 share point respectively from its strong retail share performance in 2010.
PM U.S.A.'s decision not to build Marlboro share on price promoted share is reflected in both PM U.S.A.'s strong margin performance and Marlboro's retention of some but not all of the 0.8 share point that the brand gained in 2010.
Marlboro's full year retail share of 42% continues to reflect the brand's strong position across multiple flavor segments.
PM U.S.A.'s fourth quarter retail share decreased 0.4 share point as share losses from Marlboro and other premium brands were partially offset by discount share gains driven by L&amp;M.
PM U.S.A.'s full year retail share declined 0.8 share point.
The smokeless products segment reported fourth quarter and full year financial results were negatively impacted by higher restructuring charges associated with our new cost reduction program.
Fourth quarter income margin volume and retail share comparisons were also impacted by higher 2011 fourth quarter promotional activities versus lower levels of promotions in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to the rollout of an enhanced retail platform.
Reported operating companies income for the segment decreased 8.3% for the fourth quarter primarily due to higher restructuring charges and higher promotional costs partially offset by higher pricing and volume.
For the full year reported operating companies income increased 7% to $859 million primarily due to higher pricing and volume partially offset by higher restructuring charges.
Excluding restructuring and acquisition-related charges fourth quarter adjusted operating companies income for the smokeless products segment increased 3.6%.
Fourth quarter operating companies income margins decreased 1.9 percentage points to 59.3% reflecting a difficult comparison to the fourth quarter of 2010 when lower promotional activity boosted margins.
Adjusted operating companies income for the smokeless products segment grew a strong 7.7% to $896 million for 2011.
Adjusted operating companies income margins also grew for the full year increasing 1.5 percentage points to 59%.
Copenhagen and Skoal's combined shipment volume grew 6.5% for the full year.
Copenhagen benefited from new products introduced over the past few years including Copenhagen Long Cut Wintergreen Long Cut Straight Extra Long Cut Natural and Wintergreen Pouches.
Skoal's volume also benefited from its new products: Skoal X-tra and Skoal Snus partially offset by the delisting of 7 SKUs in the second quarter of 2011.
Total smokeless products volume for the full year increased 1.4% as gains for Copenhagen and Skoal were partially offset by declines in other portfolio products including non-focused brands and Marlboro Snus.
Marlboro Snus' volume was negatively impacted by significantly lower levels of promotional support compared to its national launch in 2010 and the shift in mix from packages with 6 pouches to tins with 15 pouches.
Fourth quarter smokeless products shipment volume comparisons were favorably impacted by reduced promotional activities in 2010.
Copenhagen and Skoal increased their combined shipment volume by 13% for the fourth quarter while total smokeless products volume increased 9.7%.
After adjusting for changes in trade inventories USSTC and PM U.S.A.'s 2011 fourth quarter and full year combined smokeless products shipment volume was estimated to be up 6% and 4% respectively.
USSTC and PM U.S.A.
believe that the smokeless category's full year volume grew at an estimated rate of 5%.
Retail share comparisons for the fourth quarter were favorably impacted by the promotional dynamics I discussed earlier.
Copenhagen and Skoal's 2011 combined retail share increased 2.4 share points to 49.9% in the fourth quarter and grew 1 share point to 49% for the full year.
Copenhagen's 2011 fourth quarter and full year retail share increased 2.4 and 1.5 share points respectively as the brand's retail share results continued to benefit from new products.
Skoal's retail share was flat for the fourth quarter and down 0.5 share point for the full year as share losses including the impact of SKUs delisted in the second quarter of 2011 were partially offset by share gains on new products.
Fourth quarter retail share for the total smokeless products segment increased 1.1 share points as gains for Copenhagen were partially offset by losses on other portfolio products.
Segment share for the full year decreased 0.1 percentage point as declines on other portfolio products in Skoal were mostly offset by gains in Copenhagen.
Middleton's fourth quarter operating companies income and margins improved significantly versus the same period in 2010 when Black &amp; Mild made promotional investments to defend its competitive position in the marketplace against low-priced imported cigars.
Reported operating companies income increased 85.7% for the fourth quarter primarily due to lower promotional spending and higher list prices partially offset by lower volume and higher restructuring charges in connection with the new cost reduction program.
Excluding the impact of restructuring charges fourth quarter adjusted operating companies income grew 95.5% and adjusted operating companies income margins grew 16.8 percentage points to 47.8%.
As Mike mentioned earlier Middleton's income and margins were stronger in the second half of 2011 compared to the first half.
Full year reported operating companies income decreased 2.4% primarily due to costs related to manufacturing infrastructure upgrades and new product costs partially offset by higher list prices.
Adjusted operating companies income decreased 1.2% for the full year to $167 million and adjusted operating companies income margins decreased 2.2 percentage points to 46.4%.
Middleton's 2011 full year reported cigar shipment volume was unchanged while fourth quarter volume decreased 5.6% primarily due to changes in trade inventories.
Middleton believes the wholesalers depleted Black &amp; Mild cigar inventories built in the third quarter following Middleton's December list price increase.
Black &amp; Mild delivered strong retail results for both the fourth quarter and full year.
Fourth quarter retail share of machine-made large cigars increased 0.9 share point to 30.8% and full year share increased 0.5 share point to 29.5%.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share benefited from the introduction of new untipped cigarillos that Mike mentioned earlier.
The wine segment reported strong operating companies income and volume results in 2011.
The wine segment's reported operating companies income increased by 23.3% for the fourth quarter and by 49.2% to $91 million for the full year.
Excluding restructuring and acquisition-related costs adjusted operating companies income for the wine segment was unchanged for the fourth quarter and up 14.5% to $95 million for the full year.
Ste.
Michelle's 2011 wine shipments grew by 10.9% in the fourth quarter and 9.6% for the full year as the company continued to focus on expanding its distribution of its premium products.
The financial services segment's 2011 fourth quarter operating companies income was $10 million reflecting a $60 million increase in the allowance for losses related to the bankruptcy filing by American Airlines.
For the full year the segment reported an operating companies loss of $349 million primarily due to the 2011 second quarter charge of $490 million related to certain leveraged lease transactions and a $25 million net increase in the allowance for losses partially offset by higher lease revenues which included gains on asset sales.
Full year adjusted operating companies income for the segment which is calculated excluding the impact of the leveraged lease charge decreased $16 million to $141 million.
Mike and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 35% for both the fourth quarter and the full year of 2011.
Marlboro's net pack price was $5.73 in the fourth quarter and $5.70 for the full year while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.24 in the fourth quarter and $4.22 for the full year.
The cigarette discount categories retail share was 28.1% for the fourth quarter and 27.8% for the full year.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the fourth quarter was $1.37 per pack unchanged from the third quarter and up $0.01 from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Copenhagen's retail price was $4.18 for both the fourth quarter and full year and it's brand's price gap versus the leading discount brand was 42% for the fourth quarter and 43% for the full year.
CapEx was $30 million for the fourth quarter and $105 million for the full year.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $69 million for the fourth quarter and $253 million for the full year.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christina McGlone-Hahn with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just in terms of the wording with regard to the 2012 Marlboro strategy it seems like you've been trying to balance share with profit growth and it looks like just from hearing the comments that 2012 may be more tilted towards share growth.
And I just was wondering if you could comment on that and then maybe talk about some of -- when you talked about Marlboro Black is that nationwide? Is that positioned like Special Blends? Or is it positioned differently? Well Marlboro Black is nationwide and it's positioned as Marlboro Black.
Relative to plans for Marlboro in 2012 from a forward-looking point of view we've provided EPS guidance.
We don't like to get into the detail of how we're going to deliver what we think we're going to deliver for competitive reasons but at CAGNY we will provide some additional context regarding our thinking about Marlboro when some of the things that we're looking at relative to the brand as we go forward through 2012 without providing too much information from a competitive point of view.
Research Division</strong> And when I think of -- about cash flow if -- with the $500 million pension contribution -- and I'm sure -- I think that there will be a LILO/SILO payment this year.
I don't know if that's definitive or not if we should be building something like that in.
But given the 2 of those would that basically limit your ability to go beyond the $1 billion share repo already announced? Yes I think as you look at our balance sheet we continue to have a strong balance sheet and strong cash flow.
With regard to our share repurchase program I'm not going to comment on an activity beyond the program that we've currently announced.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with the portfolio mix.
I mean to be sure the fact that you've held onto as much of the 2010 share gains from Marlboro is certainly a good thing.
But from my perspective I'm a bit encouraged by the discount volume growth.
As we look out to 2012 can you talk a little bit about how you see your portfolio mix in cigarettes evolving? Well I think nothing's changed from a strategic point of view for us.
We're focused on premium brands.
This year L&amp;M recovered a bit of the share that basically got lost.
Our objective there is to kind of hold our position in the discount segment and transition it to L&amp;M as a brand.
So some of that occurred but our absolute share of the discount business has remained pretty constant over the past few years as we've kind of ceded some share on basic and recovered some of that on the L&amp;M.
You shouldn't read any into that any suggestion of strategic change.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
In terms of the new partnership that you announced this morning can you give us any color on when we might see some new product innovations come out of that and whether that you would be Marlboro branding or branding under any other brand in your portfolio? Well I'll tell you what I don't think I'm going to comment on it any further right now.
At CAGNY we'll talk a bit more about our relationship and the whole subject of alternate [ph] products for tobacco consumers.
And so I'd suggest that you wait until that point before we communicate any further on the subject.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And just last -- one last more if I could.
Could you offer some color on your outlook for SET and FET increases in 2012? Well we always view that as a risk to the business and so it's an area where we have to be prepared to participate and we do.
It's an election year.
Sometimes that makes it a little bit more difficult to call.
So we'll see.
Right now we're just watching to see what kind of activity might emerge so that we can be prepared to deal with it appropriately.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> There's 3 things I wanted to ask you.
First do you think Marlboro can profitably grow share? And what's your response to I think the concern in the investment community that if the brand doesn't grow you'll resort to higher levels of promotional spending? Well look.
We've been pretty clear with our position relative to the cigarette business.
We believe that the appropriate strategy in the cigarette business is to maximize profitability but maintain modest momentum on Marlboro because we want to have sustainable profit growth.
So I believe that our cigarette position is very good in that regard that as I explained in my remarks I think share deviations on Marlboro this year really have more to do with differences in promotion spending and timing both ours and competitive activity and that it's to be expected to have some of those kinds of share deviations particularly in this kind of economic environment where you have a certain segment of your consumer base that is more price sensitive and is more volatile relative to shopping and relative to promotion activity you see in the store.
I think Marlboro's held up very well in that environment.
Price gaps have remained stable throughout that environment.
The brand was able to contribute to expanded margins at Philip Morris U.S.A.
And I think it's well positioned as I said in my remarks to go into 2012.
So we look at this on a long-term basis.
We think that based on the guidance we provided that we can continue to deliver a solid growth rate in EPS to our shareholders and that Marlboro will be a part of that proposition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly let me ask you about the prepared comments you made about no change in elasticity no change in the secular volume decline rate.
How do you reconcile those 2 beliefs with the fact that year-on-year there's been very little retail price increases to consumers? As an example I think Marlboro's pricing year-on-year is up 1% and yet consumption is down 3.5%.
Well David this is Howard.
I'll address that question.
I mean as we look over the last 3 or 4 years and we calculate the decline rate we calculate it as a combination of the secular decline rate and a price elasticity impact.
And as we've looked over the last 3 or 4 years as I said in my remarks we've seen a very consistent secular decline rate and frankly we've seen the price elasticity hold up pretty well.
And that applied even during the large FET increase here.
So again we study this pretty carefully and we're seeing quite a bit of consistency there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just a question on the FDA and it's a big picture question.
There have been now some instances.
I guess they've had control going on for 2 years over tobacco some instances where the FDA's had some freedom to operate some capacity to provide indications of its sort of underlying approach to regulating tobacco.
And I guess there are 2 potential extremes.
One is that they'd be non-science based and extremely hostile and the other one would be that they'd be cautious and science based.
And I'm just curious.
To this point to the extent Mike that you have a read where do think the FDA is coming out on that spectrum with respect to its philosophical approach to regulating tobacco? Well I think so far what we've seen has been about what we would have expected a methodical approach to applying the legislation that was passed that the FDA has the obligation to do that.
And that legislation calls for the FDA to use science and evidence to do things that are in the interest of public health related to tobacco.
And while I still think it's early in the process I think the FDA has followed the legislation and is moving right along relative to the legislative imperatives that it's been given.
And I think is from our perspective it's been appropriate in the way it's been moving forward.
So it remains to be seen what the outcome will be on some of the issues.
And I'm sure there will be places and there have already been some places where you may see industry disagreement with conclusions that have been drawn or regulations that have been issued by the FDA.
But I think that's always to be expected in a regulatory environment.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see if you could give a little more color on the restructuring savings and how you think you might use some of that.
How much would you reinvest in marketing or brand building? And how much would drop to the bottom line? Well once again we provide guidance as the forward-looking way for investors and analysts to have some idea of what we're thinking and what we anticipate will be the outcome for the year but we don't like to get into breaking down the internals because it does have a bearing on competition and how people view or try to determine what our competitive positions might be and what we might do.
So I'm going to decline to break it down any further than the guidance that we've provided.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at consumer sentiment and in C stores specifically we've seen some trading up to things like better beer and energy drinks that have been strong there.
Have you seen that be a tailwind for Marlboro in that channel as well? And do you feel like you might be getting some trading up coming back from people who have been switching to cheaper brands? Well look the premium discount mix in the cigarette category has remained pretty much in the range that it's been in over the last number of years.
So any activity in shifting between premium and discount -- and remember this is largely a premium business -- is really driven by short-term activity in the marketplace.
So we haven't seen any trend outline changes.
We see actually a lot of promotion activity between the leading premium brands and some trading of volume back and forth and share back and forth between those premium brands once again based on levels of shorter-term promotion spending.
And there -- everybody has to understand that in any category and on any brand even the most premium of premium brands there is always a segment of that brand's consumer population that's more price sensitive and promotion sensitive and does in fact switch from time to time between other brands that they've found to be satisfactory when they can buy them on promotion.
And so we have a segment of that business on the Marlboro brand even though the brand has a very high loyalty factor of people who buy the brand 100% of the time.
So I don't see any underlying trend changes right now in the category between premium and discount.
I just see promotion-driven shifting that is short term.
And in our view again we're managing this category to maximize profitability and maintain longer-term strength of position for our brands so that they can continue to deliver good profit growth.
Research Division</strong> That’s helpful.
And then lastly on Black I know it's just launched and so I don't know how much you've seen actually in market yet.
But where is that sourcing volume from or where do you expect that to be sourcing volume from? Yes it's a bit early for us to talk about that.
We'll talk a bit more about it at CAGNY.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick one and actually a bit of a follow-up to the last question.
Based on kind of the current economic outlook for 2012 GDP consumer confidence that's where things should all sort of modestly improve through the year.
I'm just curious just for perspective do you believe that would be enough to -- or would the industry respond with less aggressive promotions in an improving economic environment? Or do we need a real step-up in improving the economy to see maybe more pricing or less -- and/or less promotion? Yes.
Well generally unemployment and consumer confidence have been factors that have been associated with the ability for brands to sustain a wider gap between a premium brand's price and the lowest price in the marketplace.
But that generally -- that outcome generally follows those things occurring.
And we're still at high levels of unemployment and we're still at low levels of consumer confidence.
Okay? So I think that I can't predict the future on how fast or when that's going to change.
I might just say that if it does then it could have some positive impact.
But I don't know when that will be.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then I wanted to ask a question about the MLP program since we have to ask one of those every quarter.
But my question being there's been some adjustments to that program and reflecting some of the guidance you've gotten from retail.
And so I'm just curious if -- it's a bit early I realize.
But is there any sort of increase in participation rates or anything like that that you can speak to that you think the new program will allow for? Well once again I think I'll defer to CAGNY I think when we talk about the business in a little more detail and a little more time has passed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final one if I could.
The -- do you regard the cigarette inventory levels today as -- at good levels here? And are there -- and then I guess related to that any shipping day differences in 2012 we should be aware of? Well the third quarter ended with really low inventory levels.
Inventory levels on cigarettes grew a bit in the fourth quarter and then toward the end of the fourth quarter after pricing activity in the marketplace they declined again.
So it was kind of a complex quarter from the point of view of inventory movement.
Probably the easiest way to understand it is that we began 2012 with inventory levels that are pretty equivalent to how we began 2011.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that'd be considered a good level for you? Yes that's a reasonably normalized level.
I mean there's always some movement in these things that are driven by particular wholesaler or retailer motivations at any point in time.
But I think the easiest way to understand where we are as we began 2012 with inventory wholesale inventory levels that were pretty equivalent to where we began 2011.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chris Byrd [ph] with Bloomberg News.
Mike wanted -- it seems appropriate to ask you since you're leaving in a few months.
I wonder whether you could take a look back and just offer some sense of how the company has managed volatility in the business and its share price.
I'm just wondering whether conditions are such now where volatility is less of a risk than it was say 10 years ago.
Well that's kind of a hard question to ask -- answer because oftentimes volatility is driven by external factors rather than what we're actually doing and how we're actually performing in the business.
I do think it's fair to say that in the cigarette business we've gone -- in my career we've gone through really 3 downturns with this last one I mean economic downturns with this last one being probably the most severe.
And I think that the cigarette brands or Marlboro in particular has been most successful in the way its business has been performing and its ability to grow profitability in this last one which is the longest and probably the most difficult.
And I think to some degree that's a reflection of what we learned from the other ones.
So I'd say that we've gotten better at dealing with that particular area where from time to time there are economic situations that develop that aren't particularly attractive for consumers and kind of knowing how to run premium brands in that kind of environment and continue to give stable consistent returns to shareholders I think is one of the things that the company is good at.
Marty if I may ask quickly obviously you're taking charge.
Do you have a sense of look...
I'm sorry.
Are you asking a question to...
Just looking ahead Marty what are the biggest challenges going forward in terms of the company managing the volatility that goes with your business? Is it FDA regulation? Is it...
I'm sure Marty has an excellent answer to that question except he's not here.
Oh I'm sorry.
Well Mike can I ask you that question? And he doesn't get to be CEO until May 17.
Okay? So between now and then you're stuck with me.
How about giving me a little forward look then Mike if you don't mind? Well I think that the issues remain pretty much what they have been.
I think the risk to the business are always competitive risks marketplace risks economic risks.
We have regulatory risks.
We have legal risks.
They're not new news nor are they unknown.
They're pretty much the same ones that have been around for a bit now and that we have had pretty successful track record in managing.
But they continue to be the risks that I believe that the company faces.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mike just maybe taking a step back here in the last couple of years.
If we look at the company's performance obviously the profit growth the earnings growth have been pretty healthy.
But if you look at just the revenue growth you haven't really seen any growth in revenues just if -- even if we just take the -- all of your tobacco businesses so certainly a bit of a different algorithm than I think what you've laid out at the time of the spinoff.
So as you go forward is top line growth even a consideration for Altria? Can you continue to get pretty healthy profit and earnings growth really without getting top line growth? And if so sort of what's changed on the cost side or other factors that are driving better profit growth as opposed to top line growth as we think about the next few years? Yes.
Well if you're getting a -- what you're primarily referring to is the cigarette business because the other businesses are growing categories.
But I think in the cigarette business the answer to the question is that given the complexity of the math model it actually isn't a necessity to have top line revenue growth in order to have profit growth.
And that continues out I think into the future.
It's nice to get it when you can get it but it's not a necessity to get it in order to have profit growth.
And I think we've demonstrated that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if you take the total tobacco portfolio as a whole now that you're going to put cigar business with PM U.S.A.
-- obviously smokeless tobacco is growing but it's still relatively smaller portion of your total tobacco business.
So when you look at in totality is your point that you can still get to the profit growth algorithm without really getting the top line growth? And then maybe then talk a little bit about the cost savings opportunity.
You've laid out the $400 million.
But beyond that are there a lot of opportunities to really get continued cost savings out of different businesses that you operate? Yes.
Well just once again as growth the businesses grow the cigarette business becomes less of a percentage of the total profit pool.
But we continue to expect that our cigarette profitability is going to grow out to the future.
And my point is it's not really necessary to actually get top line growth in order to get profit growth out of the cigarette business.
Relative to cost we lay those things out as we get to them rather than provide a lot of forward-looking information so I'm not going to report on that.
We have a program we've announced and as we accrue those savings we'll be talking about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the competitive landscape you've seen now some of the price increases coming up either from Newport [indiscernible] or at the discount segment.
So as you think about 2012 do you feel better about the competitive backdrop today than maybe a year ago where you did have a lot of introductory promotions going on behind Newport and some of the discount brands that were pretty heavily promoted? Well again I would describe the cigarette industry right now from a pricing point of view as pretty stable.
I mean if you look at price gaps across the key brands it's pretty stable but it's very competitive.
So there's still a lot of ebb and flow of short-term promotion activity.
There are no fundamental trend changes that seem to be taking place in the industry so I expect it to continue to be competitive.
But within that it's pretty stable overall industry and the profit pool continues to expand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just clarification on the inventory comment you made so the gap in the Q4 numbers to your shipments coming in up 0.2 and your underlying volume being down 3% or 4%.
So all of that difference was attributable to just really the low level of inventory at the end of 3Q and then just to catch up to getting to a normal level in Q4? No I don't think I spoke to that nor am I going to try and reconcile it.
My comment was simply that inventories at the beginning of 2012 were about the same as they were at the beginning of 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Should we think anything differently about Q1 in terms of whether any inventory movement could impact shipments? Well we can't predict what the inventory movement's going to be by wholesalers so I'd decline to comment on that.
Your next question comes from Michael Felberbaum of Associated Press.
In regards to the agreement that you announced today for -- as far as noncombustible nicotine products does that -- other companies have previously announced agreements and ventures into this area.
Do you have confidence that the FDA will ultimately make it possible for companies to market some of these products as less harmful than or safer than cigarettes? And do you think that consumers will ultimately be interested in these alternatives? Well to answer your -- first part of your question is I have confidence that the FDA is going to study this issue and make a determination about it because it's a part of what's in the legislation.
And I think that they'll -- they've already begun to look at the subject.
So I do have confidence that it's going to be reviewed.
And relative to how consumers react I think that's going to be depending upon the products.
Your next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to return to the Marlboro franchise.
And I know you talked about this a little bit but in '10 we focused on gaining volume; '11 improved profitability for the franchise and kind of as we move through '12 can you give us any kind of metrics we could track as to how the Marlboro franchise is performing versus your expectations? No I'm not going to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have to try.
And then secondly do you care to comment at all on the timing of an FDA decision on menthol by any chance? No I can't.
I think that process continues along and I don't know that there's any decision for the FDA to make.
I just think they have a mandate to study the issue and they've continued to move through a process that meets their legislative mandate.
So I don't know what the outcome of that will be.
Your next question comes from Ben Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Nik.
So just 2 quick questions for me.
On the smokeless side it looks like you're having some good volume gain on the premium end.
I'm just curious American Snuff put out a new contract looking to get more space [ph].
Just curious how you've seen the competitive interaction there at least at the shelf what kind of impact it has had.
And then the second question is I continue to pick up kind of a dissatisfaction at the retail level on broader execution.
This has been a concern of mine for 1.5 years now.
Just curious do you see it? And what is Altria doing to help address that? That would be very helpful.
Well to answer your first question is I don't really know the answer at this point.
I mean there's always some movement in the trade programs and we have had some in ours and we've seen some recent activity from some competitor competitive activity.
And it's kind of hard at this point to gauge what the outcome is because some of that's still in motion.
Relative to our retail organization we've been continuing to work through the integration of all these businesses into one sales organization and one of the impediments that we had was we had to take the different systems that existed and take these 3 categories and put them into our system which at the time was really designed to accommodate one category.
And over the course of the last couple of years we've built a new system and installed that system in December and trained the entire organization on that system.
And so they're just now getting up and running.
We also will complete a reconfiguration of the organization based on how the business development is with the totality of these businesses from a geographic point of view versus the way it was originally designed which was around the cigarette business.
So that has implications for coverage and the amount of coverage and then having your coverage in the right places.
And so all of those things are a continuation of the completion of these acquisitions that we made and kind of beginning to tune up some of the places where you have some residual effect.
So I think that as we come to a close on that kind of disruptive activity in the sales organization that we'll be in a better position.
Now we haven't really seen I don't think an impact on the business from that but it is difficult for our people sometimes when they're having to work with less-than-optimum systems for example to get their work done.
Your final question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Priya Ohri-Gupta.
Just wanted to get a sense from you as we sort of model out the forward year.
What sort of core cash balance should we be baking in? And for example I'm just talking about the amount of cash needed to address your day-to-day ongoing business requirements.
Yes.
We don't provide forecasts on what our cash balances are expected to be.
If you want to understand our needs you can certainly look at the historical financial statements and there's a pattern there that you could probably take a look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just as we sort of think about your debt refinancing needs over the coming year should we sort of continue to think that you would manage to existing balances? Or would you continue to look at potentially refinancing just given where rates are? Yes I'm not going to make any comments on our future plans in the debt markets.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for closing remarks.
I want to thank everyone for joining our call today.
We will be webcasting our presentation at the Annual Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference on February 22 where Mike and our Altria leadership team will make a presentation so we look forward to having you join us there.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us today and the investor relations group at Altria.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Altria's management and a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining our call.
I'm joined this morning by Mike Szymanczyk Altria's Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria's 2012 business results for the first quarter and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria's business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior year period unless otherwise stated.
As part of Altria's cost reduction program on January 1 2012 John Middleton became a subsidiary of PM USA reflecting management's goal to achieve efficiencies in the management of these businesses.
Beginning this quarter we are reporting the financial results for the new smokable products segment which includes cigarettes and cigars.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Mike Szymanczyk.
Thanks Brendan and good morning to everyone.
Altria delivered strong financial results in the first quarter growing its adjusted diluted earnings per share by 11.4%.
Behind the strength of our diverse business platform our business model generates income streams from the largest and most profitable tobacco categories as well as from our alcohol assets and financial services business.
Our smokable and smokeless products segments grew their adjusted operating companies income and margins behind the strong performance of our tobacco companies' premium brands and effective cost management.
All of our tobacco companies grew retail share of the categories in which they compete.
PM USA Middleton and USSTC are pursuing initiatives to build their premium brands for the long term.
As we discussed at the CAGNY conference in February PM USA has evolved Marlboro's brand architecture to support its future growth.
This new architecture is focused on 4 product families: Red gold green and a new product family black.
In the first quarter PM USA made investments in Marlboro Black which builds on Marlboro's rich heritage of adventure and ruggedness.
Marlboro's cigarette retail share benefited from the investment in this new architecture.
Marlboro delivered strong 2012 first quarter sequential share growth of 0.7 of a share point versus the fourth quarter of 2011 and grew its year-over-year share by 0.1 of a share point.
We launched non-menthol and menthol versions of Marlboro Black last year in bold modern packaging fitting with the personality of the Marlboro Black family and are pleased with its first quarter results.
The Marlboro Black family is off to a great start has generated trial among competitive adult smokers as intended and gained retail share.
However some of Marlboro Black's retail share gains were driven by trial-generating activities that are likely to moderate in 2013.
Marlboro will continue to focus on the introduction of its new brand architecture throughout 2012 and plans a number of brand-building and equity-enhancing products and programs across all 4 of Marlboro's brand families during this year and 2013.
In the second quarter PM USA is introducing Marlboro EIGHTY-THREES Box that provides the Classic Marlboro flavor in modern updated packaging in the red family.
Black &amp; Mild delivered strong retail share gains for the first quarter driven by its continued leadership in tip cigarillos and the success of new untipped cigarillos introduced in 2011.
Our smokeless products segment continued to deliver strong adjusted operating companies income growth behind Copenhagen and Skoal.
These brands grew their combined first quarter adjusted volume and retail share versus the prior year as Copenhagen continued to show strong momentum.
Skoal's retail share was stable on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Skoal's year-over-year retail share losses including those attributable to the 7 SKUs delisted last year were partially offset by share gains for Skoal X-tra which was introduced at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle delivered strong volume growth as it continued to expand distribution of its premium wines.
Adjusted operating companies income was flat for the first quarter as Ste.
Michelle had a higher cost in certain wine vintages investments to build its sales force and other items.
Gains on asset sales by PMCC and earnings from our equity investment in SABMiller also contributed to Altria's strong adjusted earnings per share growth.
Altria continued to return cash to shareholders through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
In the first quarter Altria paid more than $835 million in dividends and bought back 9.9 million shares at a total cost of $294 million.
Subject to the discretion of the board the company plans to repurchase additional shares worth $378 million by the end of 2012 representing the balance remaining under the $1 billion share repurchase program authorized by the board in October of 2011.
We are pleased with Altria's financial results for the first quarter which were consistent with our expectations.
Altria reaffirms that it expects its 2012 adjusted diluted EPS will increase by 6% to 9% to a range of $2.17 to $2.23 from an adjusted basis of $2.05 to -- per share in 2011.
Altria anticipates more modest adjusted diluted EPS growth through the middle quarters of the year.
Finally I am happy to report that our Chairman and CEO transition is proceeding smoothly.
Marty Barrington will succeed me when I retire as Chairman and CEO following Altria's annual meeting with shareholders on May 17.
And Dave Brand will become President and Chief Operating Officer.
Marty will join Howard Willard for our second quarter earnings conference call in July.
As this is my final earnings conference call as Chairman and CEO of Altria I want to thank our shareholders and analysts for your interest in our company.
I have appreciated the support and confidence that many of you have offered as we have transformed Altria following the spin off of Philip Morris International.
I believe that Altria has many strengths that position our company to continue increasing value for shareholders.
These include the strong premium brands of our tobacco operating companies which hold leading positions in the largest and most profitable tobacco segments.
A deep knowledge of adult tobacco consumers and a focus on innovation growing alcohol assets well-developed capabilities to manage external challenges and a strong balance sheet that supports superior cash returns to shareholders.
As I prepare to retire I am excited about Altria's prospects for the future and have great confidence in the leaders that will guide the company to its next phase of growth.
Now I'll turn the call over to Howard Willard who will discuss Altria's business results in more detail.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning everyone.
In the smokable products segment first quarter reported operating companies income grew by 5.1% primarily due to higher list prices and effective cost management.
These factors were partially offset by lower reported shipment volume and higher promotional spending to support Marlboro's brand-building and equity-enhancing products and programs.
Excluding the special items first quarter adjusted operating companies income for the smokable products segment increased by 3.9% to $1.4 billion behind higher pricing and cost savings.
Adjusted operating companies income margins increased 1.5 percentage points to 41% driven by Marlboro.
PM USA's reported cigarette shipments decreased 2.6% for the first quarter primarily due to trade inventory dynamics.
Trade inventories were lower in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth and first quarters of 2011.
The impact of lower trade inventories was partially offset by retail share gains on L&amp;M and Marlboro and one additional shipping day.
When adjusted for trade inventories and one extra shipping day PM USA estimates that its cigarette volume was essentially flat for the first quarter of 2012 compared to the prior year period.
PM USA estimates that the total cigarette categories adjusted volume declined approximately 2.5% in the first quarter which is consistent with historical price elasticity and the secular rate of decline.
On a sequential basis PM USA had strong 2012 first quarter retail share results increasing 0.6 of a share point versus the fourth quarter of 2011 to 49.4%.
This sequential share gain was driven by Marlboro which grew 0.7 of a share point partially offset by a 0.1 of a share point loss on other premium brands.
Our discount portfolio was unchanged on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
PM USA's first quarter retail share on a year-over-year basis increased 0.4 of a share point to 49.4% as Marlboro share was up 0.1 of a share point to 42.3% and discount share gains on L&amp;M more than offset share losses for other portfolio brands.
Cigar shipment volume increased 14.3% for the first quarter driven primarily by retail share gains changes in wholesale trade inventories and one extra shipping day.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share increased 1.4 share points to 30.7% driven by the success of its Classic Sweets and wine untipped cigarillos and continued strength in its core tipped cigarillos.
Turning to smokeless products.
Reported operating companies income for this segment decreased 0.5% to $192 million for the first quarter due primarily to higher restructuring charges and lower reported volume mostly offset by higher pricing and lower cost.
When adjusted for restructuring charges operating companies income increased 8.8% to $211 million.
Reported smokeless products shipment volume decreased 7.5% in the first quarter of 2012.
Volume gains for Copenhagen were more than offset by declines for Skoal and other brands which both faced difficult comparisons versus the prior year.
In the first quarter of 2011 Marlboro and Skoal each introduced 2 new Snus products and Skoal introduced 8 new Skoal X-tra products late in the quarter.
Skoal's volume was also impacted by the delisting of 7 SKUs in the second quarter of 2011.
Our adjusted smokeless volume is difficult to estimate on a quarterly basis.
USSTC and PM USA believe that their combined 2012 first quarter adjusted smokeless products volume grew more than the recent category trends due to strong retail share gains.
USSTC and PM USA estimates that the smokeless products category grew by 5% over the 12 months ended March 2012.
USSTC and PM USA's retail share of the smokeless products category increased 1 share point to 55.5%.
New products introduced by Copenhagen in the recent years continued to have a positive impact on the brand's retail share.
Copenhagen's first quarter retail share grew by a strong 2.7 share points to 27.8%.
Skoal's share declined 0.4 of a share point to 22.1% as share losses including those related to last year's delisting of 7 Skoal SKUs were partially offset by gains on Skoal X-tra that was introduced last year.
Ste.
Michelle's reported operating companies income of $15 million was up 25% for the first quarter but adjusted operating companies income was flat excluding the impact of restructuring costs in 2011.
Ste.
Michelle has made investments in its sales force to support its goal of expanding distribution of its premium brands.
These investments along with higher costs for certain wine vintages in the first quarter of 2012 offset the impact of revenue gains from higher volume.
Ste.
Michelle's shipment volume increased 6.6% for the first quarter driven by the growth in certain premium brands.
The financial services segment's reported operating companies income increased by more than 100% to $52 million for the first quarter driven by gains from asset sales.
Our 2011 cost management program remains on track and we have recorded net pretax charges of $228 million over the past 2 quarters.
We expect to incur approximately $70 million in pretax restructuring charges in the balance of 2012 related to this program.
These 2012 restructuring charges are reflected in our full year diluted EPS guidance that we've reaffirmed today.
Mike and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price GAAP versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 35% in the first quarter.
Marlboro's net pack price in the first quarter was $5.71 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.23.
The cigarette discount category's retail share was 27.5% for the first quarter.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the first quarter was $1.37 per pack unchanged from the fourth quarter and up $0.01 versus the first quarter of last year.
Copenhagen's first quarter retail price was $4.10 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand is approximately 41% in the quarter.
CapEx was $16 million for the first quarter.
We estimate capital expenditures for the full year will be approximately $150 million.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $56 million for the first quarter.
On April 16 PM USA made its annual MSA payment for 2011 of approximately $3.5 billion.
This amount includes approximately $206 million that was paid into the MSA's disputed payment account reflecting the amount that PM USA disputes those as a result of 2009 non-participating manufacturer adjustment.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A quick question I had.
First is just curious on your thoughts on the e-cigarette category just in lieu of what Lorillard announced yesterday that's question number one.
And the second question is if I understand the architectural correctly it's going to be fully implemented at retail by the end of the second quarter.
And I'm just curious if you've tested this and kind of if you have what some of the early context you got from those test markets? Those 2 questions any context will be helpful.
Well I'm not sure what the first question was Nick relative to e-cigarettes.
Is there a specific question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just curious on your thoughts on the category.
I mean is this something you think Altria should get involved in? Is it a category you think is viable? I mean certainly there's a lot of different viewpoints on Snus.
I'm just curious on your views on the category.
Well look we pay attention to all of these I guess emerging segments and watch what's going on and do some research.
And so we've been monitoring this one for some time.
It's been around for a while.
There's a pretty high awareness but it represents still a pretty small business proposition.
And so we're mindful of it.
We pay attention to it.
And that's about all I can say about it.
And then relative to your second question what was it? Research Division</strong> Yes just on the architecture.
I guess it's going to be helpful if...
On the architecture.
Well we did some very specific consumer research relative to this architecture.
It's not the kind of thing that you would market test because it would be pretty hard to read it among all the noise that exists in the market.
But you really rely more on the consumer research relative to communication around the segments and the particular audiences that each segment's designed to appeal to.
And yes we did research that before we decided to move to this architecture.
I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Curious about the share gains from Marlboro Black.
Could you quantify the contribution from that line extension to the quarterly share gain from Marlboro? Well no we haven't.
We don't usually break out the individual segments of Marlboro.
But as I said in my remarks we're pretty pleased with Marlboro Black so far.
We recognize that some of that was driven by introductory support.
But that's okay that's part of introducing a new product.
And we're pretty pleased with the rest of the franchise as well.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
And then in terms of the introductory support that you're offering for Marlboro Black on a percentage basis is it roughly in line the kind of level of discounting your promotion that you're putting behind that line extension? Is it in line with the prior Marlboro line extensions? I don't know if I'd quantify it but I would say there's nothing unusual about it okay? It's not an abnormally high level.
I mean we have a promotion level and we have trial events for adult smokers that are more limited in terms of their quantity and duration.
So both of those things are typical as part of a new product launch.
So there's nothing really I would say that's exceptional or meaningfully different about Marlboro Black's introductory plan from things that we've done in the past.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And lastly could you just comment on inventory levels at wholesale? That was certainty a big topic of discussion over the last 2 days and where you guys feel like settle down at the end of the quarter? Well there were some inventory movement downward -- wholesale inventory movement and a little bit of retail inventory movement downward in the first quarter; not wholly unexpected.
So we kind of I think said at the end of the year in the fourth quarter that our inventory levels for the fourth quarter of '11 were pretty much in line with where they were in the prior year.
And then they've dropped a bit as we've gone to the first quarter.
You expect some permanent inventory loss relative to the cigarette business because the business has a decline rate associated with it that's ongoing.
And then there are movements in inventory that are driven by various wholesaler activities and needs that are less predictable.
It's hard to quantify how much of this is permanent and how much is kind of sporadic movement.
But I think most of it's probably sporadic movement.
I don't think we're expecting to see any real changes in wholesale inventory levels beyond what you predict just from the normal industry change.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So thinking about the cadence of I guess the quarterly flow of Marlboro Black can we think about Special Blend as I guess a good model for that right where you come out in the first couple the full quarters out there you kind of peak and then you see it kind of move off.
And I guess I ask in the context of some of the stuff you said around expecting a moderation into 2013 on some of the trial-building stuff.
I guess can you just talk about how that flow might be relative to market share how you'd expect it to go? Well I think that's kind of competitively sensitive information.
So I could be somewhat reluctant to talk about that in any detail.
We will -- because Marlboro Black is 1 of the 4 core segments for Marlboro going forward we have initiatives and activities planned for it.
So that will be ongoing.
We won't run introductory trial levels on the product at the same level we've done early on as a continuum.
But the objective will be to build that franchise over time.
So we will have ongoing activities there and we'll have activities in the other 3 segments as well so all the focus won’t be on Black.
Part of the limit to this architecture is it really allows each one of these areas to pursue the consumer group that it matches up to best in its own way.
So you can expect to see ongoing activity on Marlboro Black.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up I guess to one of the other questions.
You're saying there was nothing unusual at all in the promo.
I mean you didn't run introductory levels spending any longer from Black in duration than you did for previous launches.
Is that fair? We're not finished with Black yet.
So I can't speak to some finality on Black.
We're still in the introductory phase of Marlboro Black.
And we'll have activities going on in Marlboro Black all year.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe if you could talk a little bit more about the promotional environment.
Obviously your competitors sort of called out a pretty intense promotional activity that they saw in Q1.
And it looks like if I look at Marlboro's pricing per pack perhaps down sequentially from Q4 by a couple of pennies? So is that really sort of that trial-driven initiative that you put in into the marketplace? It looks like L&amp;M also gained share.
So just sort of talk about the competitive landscape and your spending to see some of the share gains and how we should think about sort of your ability to balance share and profit as we stand today? Yes.
Well I didn't think that we saw a real meaningfully different competitive environment in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
And I also don't think we saw any dynamic change in key segments in the category.
I mean the discount segment declined a little bit in favor of the premium segment.
But all 3 of the major premium brands grew some shares so you would expect to see a little bit of that.
There was continued interplay in the discount level as pricing changed on various brands and retailers had activities focused in the discount area where there's less equity and the shifting between brands is more driven by price.
Most of L&amp;M's year-over-year share gain occurred in 2011 at a modest share increase the first quarter versus the fourth quarter and that continues to really represent some recovery from basic share that we lost.
So I just can't tell you that we saw lots of dynamic change.
Now look we're installing a major equity initiative on Marlboro that will continue for a while.
And it's established some of the new architecture.
The launching of an element of that architecture.
And so we made some investment relative to that which is to be expected.
That's part of what we've said all along is the way we'll run the business.
And I'll remind you of what our goals are here.
We've said we want to maximize income and maintain modest share momentum over time.
And I think we've been pretty explicit about saying we really don't want to chase share with pricing.
We want to spend money to build long-term equity initiatives.
And so the architecture on Marlboro and Marlboro Black those things are long-term equity initiatives and they're worthy of investment because that's the way we'll be able to accrue increased revenue over time from the brand and grow overall profitability.
So that's kind of the way we see it.
I don't see it as a particularly unusual thing nor do I see the kinds of introductory activity or the way we're approaching it to be in any way out of sorts versus what you'd expect in the packaged goods business on big brands and the way they're run.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so then on pricing so I know you don't break out PM USA anymore but can you give us any color just in terms of cigarettes revenue per unit kind of year-over-year change? No I'm not going to give out those specific numbers.
But once again I think if you look at the overall smokable business what you're going to see Judy is that hey we had some nice margin expansion in that business.
And we had what we would say for a period of time where we had inventory depletions and we had investment behind new brand architecture we had nice income growth.
And I think that's really what we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at the industry level for the rate of decline 2.5% adjusted for inventory so certainly a much better number that we've seen in the last couple of years.
So anything that you think is driving that improvement? And do you think that's sort of now a run rate that we should think about for the foreseeable future for the industry as a whole? Well I don't know.
We can't predict the future and this stuff ebbs and flows based on market conditions and based on taxes and all kinds of things like that.
So there's also some I think interplay between the smokable segment and the smokeless segment.
And so we're seeing a little more moderate growth rate in the smokable segment.
At the same time we've seen more modest declines in the smokable segments so all of that seems to tie together pretty well.
I don't think there's much that's new here relative to the behaviors among consumers related to these tobacco segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And good luck Mike.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Christina McGlone-Hahn of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just following on the previous question if we think about Marlboro and the Black introduction and then follow up with EIGHTY-THREE and I guess introductions in the brand families over the next 2 years I guess I wanted to get a sense what -- to what extent are these activities added to brand equity so that when promotion is pulled back share will still be up versus 2011.
Well we do audit them as part of our brand equity study and I think we shared with you in February at CAGNY that when you look at Special Blend as an example it actually gets higher equity scores than the already high scores that the Marlboro franchise gets.
So we pay pretty close attention to those things because ultimately our objective is going to be have the whole platform be able to continue to grow and have value over time.
So we do keep a pretty close eye on that.
Research Division</strong> And as promotional spending is pulled back when you're past the introductory phase you think -- I mean all this activity to what extent can we be confident that it really augments total Marlboro share? Well you get with any of these things you get some slippage.
So you're going to get some incremental share growth just like we got behind special blend and then you're going to have some of it that is simply promotion sensitive consumers that shift around between promotional products that are available on our brands and on competitor brands.
And so that slippage kind of will go away.
But net out of that is we typically get a gain in both share and revenue and profit growth when we do these kinds of things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the competitive response given the promotion on each of the Black launch which is typical but the pricing which we estimate about 2% was kind of the lowest rate of growth since '08.
And we're just curious what you've seen in terms of competitive response or what you anticipate to see.
Well I can't anticipate what the competitors are going to do but I think that the market remains competitive.
But you may recall we showed you a chart at the CAGNY presentation that showed net effective price and the relationship between Marlboro and its key competitors including some key discount competitors.
And I can tell you that through the first quarter those relationships didn't change at all.
So that factors in all promotion and there just wasn't any movement there in terms of the relationship between those products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on smokeless we saw pricing much better than we expected but volume lower.
And as we lap fiscal X-tra the delisting -- I'm sorry the Skoal delisting in the second quarter should we expect to see volume rebound in the second half or is there something else that needs to be done on Skoal to help with volume? Well volume in the first quarter is a little bit difficult to read because there are several factors that affected the quarterly volumes.
So I wouldn't get too caught up in it.
When we look at it on an adjusted basis we think that the volumes were on a little bit ahead of the industry volume or the industry growth rate for the smokeless business.
Just a word about Copenhagen and Skoal; we look at these 2 brands together.
And I think over time both of these brands are going to be successful.
They -- actually having 2 of them with some significant scale gives us some good opportunities from a competitive point of view to strategically approach the marketplace.
But we're looking at the total between these 2 brands.
And I think you can expect over time to see one or the other being more active and growing more because we will be doing things on these brands differently over time.
And they won't necessarily both grow at even rates.
And in the end it will be the total that will be most interested and that's the way we're looking at the business.
Skoal has been pretty stable here and it's still facing headwinds from the discontinuation of some SKUs.
And I think Copenhagen is growing really quite nicely and Skoal is having to compete with that but Skoal's time is going to come as well and I think the collective performance of these 2 brands is going to be quite good.
Your next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two things I wanted to ask you.
First given the efforts in the spending on Marlboro Black in the quarter did you hope for or plan or expect more than 10 basis points of year-on-year share growth for Marlboro? No I don't think so.
I think we felt like Marlboro performed pretty well in the first quarter.
It was up.
I mean you have to really look at where it landed for the year and it was in pretty good position relative to that.
After the launch period of Marlboro Black and this architecture activity is just getting started really in terms of playing out with the consumer.
So I think we feel pretty good about Marlboro and where we're headed with it.
I mean remember the goal here is to maximize income and get modest share momentum over time.
So we're not looking for huge share gains in short periods of time on this brand.
And as I mentioned a minute ago it's difficult to launch things and go into the marketplace without having some slippage due to spinning in the marketplace and getting some business that really isn't going to be long-term business.
But that's part of what you have to do in order to build a franchise for the long-term.
So we accept that we've got some of that going on.
I feel few pretty good about Marlboro and I think we're just getting started with our architecture.
I think we're very optimistic about Marlboro's prospects for the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wanted to ask a financial question on the remaining of the residual potential SILO/LILO income tax exposure.
Given what must be a fairly high statutory rate of interest that you would ultimately have to pay how keen are you on trying to quickly resolve the remaining issue? Well as you know that's been an issue that's ongoing.
But if you look of the impact of our financial statements really the impact of the charge was really reflected in the second quarter of last year.
And through the end of this quarter we estimate that the future cash outflow for that is about $600 million.
With regard to the timing obviously we've got a lot of activity going on with regard to that litigation.
I think the timing of that cash outflow is going to depend on a number of future activities.
At this time we would like to invite the media to join the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little bit more background on Marlboro EIGHTY-THREES? How are they different from this regular king-sized Marlboro Red? Well they're 83 millimeters.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 1 millimeter difference? No no no.
Marlboro Red is not 80 millimeters okay? So it's a different sized cigarette.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I understand it comes in different packaging? It does.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what gives you confidence that this won't be a massive cannibalization of Marlboro Red? Well we obviously research these things and Marlboro Red has a very loyal franchise that likes that product.
So we wouldn't anticipate that we're going to get a large amount of cannibalization.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I assume there will be introductory project for EIGHTY-THREES as well? Well we got an introductory program for EIGHTY-THREES it's a bit different.
I'm not going to describe it because I'd rather -- my competitors have to figure it out.
But it's a bit different than for example the Black launch.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question on pricing.
I'm just following up on a question that Judy asked.
You've introduced or you announced price increases of $0.15 over the last 12 months yet the retail price from Marlboro moved by $0.01.
Was it driven by increased promotions was it driven by more retail spending on Marlboro? Can you elaborate on that a little? Well I think it's a lot factors.
I think what retailers decided to do from a pricing point of view is certainly a factor.
The competitive marketplace is a factor.
So I think that it's influenced by a number of things.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Has Special Blends role changed at all with the new Marlboro architecture or is that basically the same? Well in the context of the Marlboro architecture there are -- there's a Special Blend in the Red line there's a Special Blend in the Gold line of this proposition.
So if you look at these 4 families in the Marlboro architecture Special Blend exists within those families as a part of the architecture.
It doesn't exist as a singular line of products.
Research Division</strong> And have you thought about the pricing any differently? I know you said you've got these higher than the base equity scores.
Have you been able to price that up since the introduction? Yes absolutely.
Marlboro Special Blend has been subject to the same list price increases that everything else in the Marlboro line.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I guess I mean on like a net pricing like have you been able to promote it less? I mean what kind of trajectory has the promotions been on that? Well the answer to that question is the answer I just gave you.
We're taking these price increases and we always realize part of those price increases to the company's profitability.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on your corporate unallocated cost they were roughly flat year-over-year.
Have any -- should we expect to see any of the restructuring savings coming through that line or is it just in the operating segments? How should we think about that one? Yes.
I think you'll see some of the savings flow through that line but a lot of the savings are really going to flow through the costs that are allocated to the various tobacco businesses particularly the smokable business because that's where a lot of the activity is focused.
And that will unfold as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I was going to -- and so you've realized some of that but there's still more of those savings you would expect to be coming? Yes.
Some of that has come through in the first quarter in a number of the different cost elements in selling general and administrative.
But you should expect to see more as the year unfolds.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of questions for you a bit of a follow-up.
I wanted to ask a question regarding Marlboro regarding the MLP program and some of the variations.
So that changed a little bit earlier in the year as I understand.
Just to be clear on how that is playing out at retail and how that could be a factor or is that a factor in the retail price change year-over-year.
I guess the question being are you seeing that program lead to lower retail prices for Marlboro at retail? Well I think what we see our trade programs do is they certainly have many retailers competing aggressively using Marlboro as a vehicle to compete with.
And sometimes that has some bearing on pricing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wanted to ask also relative to the level of discount growth in the quarter and particularly the performance of L&amp;M.
Was that a function of increased promotional spending and/or I guess an increase in distribution geographic push for that brand? I'm just curious what's driving that growth.
It's really kind of lacking what occurred in 2011 where we had some distribution expansion of L&amp;M throughout the year of 2011 as we were kind of replacing some of the lost basic shares.
So it built out a pretty good level by the -- into the fourth quarter and it picked up a 0.10 in the first quarter.
But not with any real change in anything that we were doing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question is relative to the smokeless category and just what you expect in terms of growth for the category for the year.
Should we expect the sort of 5% increase in volume for the year? Is that a good run rate you believe for the category? Well that's what it's running at.
I mean we can't predict the future.
But this category has kind of run in 5% to 6% range and you're always estimating these things will dip and there's some interplay between it in the smokable segment.
But that seems to be a reasonable range to think about I guess.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wish you all the best Mike in your retirement.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about within the Marlboro family are you seeing consumers move from the discount category into the Marlboro family under the new architecture? And if so is that movement in line with expectations? Well I think that we see some competitive consumers that have some interest in Marlboro that may have been buying competitive products not necessarily discount products but competitive other premium brands.
Finding some of these SKU expansions that we've done to be products that they like and that's how we sustain share growth on the brand.
That's one of the reasons why we've articulated this past -- in the past why we think some of the SKU work that we've done over time is important to the brand because it allows us to reach out to a broader universe of adult tobacco consumers.
Because essentially your mainline products get of sufficient size and have had broad base trial and some consumers are not buying them because they don't like those particular products.
And so maybe they like the Marlboro franchise they just don't like that set of products and so you try and reach out to them with something that they find more appealing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regards -- you all had a nice quarter double-digit volume growth some of that due to trade inventory movement.
Can you help me with how I should think about volumes for the cigar business for the year? Well I don't know how to predict just going forward in the future what it's going to be.
So it's kind of something I would hesitate to try to comment on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair to say it should grow there? We hope it does.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] Alexander of Basel Associates [ph].
As you look at the smokeless category can you give us any feel as to your profitability trend over the next few years? I know you had a lot of restructuring you've had a lot of positioning.
Is there -- can you give us any feel as how much the operating profit margins can increase or what you'd like to have happen? Well I think our objective is we've said before is to have volume growth in this growing category that's slightly ahead of the category and that will be driven by modest share growth and we already have very nice margins in this category.
And so if you put all that together what you should expect is to see we'd like to see income growth in the category that is kind of running a bit ahead of the overall category growth rate.
And so far we feel pretty good about what we've been able to achieve in this business.
And I think sometimes it's difficult for people outside it to understand this but we've gotten really substantial synergy to have in this business and that has benefited our other businesses.
And we also have substantial R&amp;D opportunities related to this business that we believe long term also will add growth to the company.
So I think that we look very favorably on the prospects and contributions from our smokeless business.
Good luck on your retirement and have fun.
Thank you very much.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any additional follow-up questions please give us a call at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Just quick question on the Marlboro architecture you talked about making further investments.
Can you just kind of contextualize those investments is it more point of sale is it more support behind some of the SKUs that you have been launching that's the first question.
The second question is the Marlboro share incentive program ended in the June quarter so just curious if that has created some kind of inventory bloat at retail as lots of retailers were probably aiming to make some of their targets any thoughts on that would be very helpful? Look the way to think of Marlboro architecture is obviously it’s the way that we are going to continue to grow Marlboro over time as it has grown in the past.
And that allows us now across these four brand families to have a variety of initiatives product programmatic retail executions and you see some of that playing out obviously in the second quarter.
The sales force in April as we referenced went out and reset at retail so that when the consumer comes to point-of-sale the four brand families are reinforced for the consumer there and it makes it easier actually from an SKU point of view to see them.
You saw Marlboro EIGHTY-THREES Box being rolled out to bring news to the Red franchise.
We have promotional plans in place to generate trial from adult competitive smokers on Marlboro Black.
So those are but some examples Nik the way I think that we think about putting the architecture together in a way that it comes alive for the Marlboro consumer and it allows it to continue to grow as it would like.
With respect to the Marlboro share incentives as you know those are retail trade programs that evolve over time.
There is a share growth component there.
I don't think that we have noticed anything unusual at inventory as a result of the program.
My first question has to do with inventory levels at wholesale.
You mentioned destocking in the back-half of June and into July.
Is that largely done? Are inventories kind of back to normal levels or should we expect more destocking through the quarter? Well I think Howard made reference to this in his remarks.
Just to maybe start one level up from that.
For PM USA it’s true of course that there are changes in inventory levels quarter-to-quarter or intra-quarter even but for PM USA that actually tends to kind of wash itself out over the course of the year.
I think that what Howard pointed out in his remarks is the trade inventory increased in the second quarter of ‘12 compared to the second quarter of ‘11 which did benefit PM USA’s volume performance a bit.
Then you had a build in second quarter and then those inventories were reduced after PM USA’s announcement of its price increase on June 18.
We saw some of that reduction continue a bit into July.
I think that’s a fair description of the situation at wholesale right now.
In terms of the consumer I know its early days since the pricing been pass through but I think there’s increasing concern about the health of the U.S.
consumer.
Have you seen anything in the trade in terms of a response to the price increases a little bit more trade down because I was actually surprised to see over the last two quarters discount losing about 100 basis points a share.
No we haven’t seen that.
Of course the price increase just went on June 18 and then we price protected in our MLP stores through June 30 but no we haven’t observed that.
And my last question has to do with Skoal I recognize that the year-over-year compares are skewed a little bit because of the launch of X-TRA and the SKU discounting but can you give us a sense of how the underlying business is doing? Sure remember the strategy is to grow Copenhagen and Skoal together.
So if you look at the numbers really since the acquisition and over time USSTC has done a great job with that.
Skoal has a tough challenge doesn’t it because it has to compete not only with other competitive brands but also with Copenhagen and Copenhagen has really been growing.
Copenhagen wants to grow a lot.
They have got some of the product offerings that it needed to compete more effectively.
And so the combined share growth is spot on target for our strategy and so we are pleased with that.
We have said I think previously Vivien that those brands will move at different speeds.
One will move faster at one time than another.
So as long as the combined retail share growth goes that’s our strategy because we want to grow income by growing volume in this growing category.
But there is work to do on Skoal.
We have got it's positioning I think better.
And now we are really seeing if we can get Skoal’s growth accelerated but together as long as they grow we are pretty okay with that.
It looks to me that the net price mix for PM USA this quarter was maybe 1% plus or minus.
Do you agree with the characterization that business is going through a period of time where it's putting a greater relative emphasis on market share growth? No.
I think that the strategy remains constant.
The strategy for PM USA is to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro and I think that's exactly what you see playing out.
Here is what I’d say about understanding kind of the pricing environment.
First of all smokeable adjusted operating company income grew and its margin grew so it’s not as if it’s gone the wrong direction.
One can argue about the relative growth but it continues to grow and its margin grew.
I think the other thing to point out is pricing obviously as you well know occurs in a context in the economic context in which that business currently competes is we are in the middle of a really anemic recovery from the greatest recession in decades and consumers are under pressure and pricing for most consumer packaged goods in this category is no exception have been more restrained than in previous periods of economic health.
Then the final thing I guess I might say just on PM USA is it’s time of investment in Marlboro and the reason we do that is Marlboro is the long-term engine of PM USA’s premium growth and the way it grows its margin and the way it contributes to income.
So I think if you put all those factors together and remembering pricing is obviously important in the cigarettes segment everybody recognizes that but it’s not the only way for PM USA to contribute to income growth.
It can moderate its promotional plans.
It can reduce its cost structure.
It can become more efficient about the way it delivers products to the marketplace and they have been very attentive to all of that.
Then of course at the Altria level we have other income contributors.
We got a growing Smokeless business and we got a great wine business and so forth.
So that’s kind of how we think about it David which is putting all of those factors together.
You point out that pricing has slowed a bit on that one axis but really overall I think we are pretty okay with how we are doing on income.
Secondly Marty how much of an impact do you think this growth of roll your own volumes what was going on with retail with the small manufacturing company? How much of an impact do you think looking backwards that may have had on total cigarette category volumes and how much of a benefit do you think from this legislation you may see going forward from that? I think that it's hard to measure is the honest answer.
You have a secular decline rate that's made up of a number of factors including people smoking fewer cigarettes per day or switching to smokeless products.
Actually I think in that group are people who have gravitated to these kinds of products whether it's roll your own or pipe your own and so it's a bit hard to measure.
Obviously for PM USA’s business which focuses on premium I don’t think there is I believe that it's going be a significant contributing factor.
Some folks who are using those machines now will gravitate to other low cost forms of using tobacco some of it maybe cigarettes but some of it maybe something else.
So we will see it's a good development of course that everybody who is manufacturing cigarette is playing by the same rules.
I just don’t think at this moment we see it having a significant impact on volume.
This is Margot Schacter in for Thilo.
I just had a kind of quick question of those David’s price slowing question can we expect price to accelerate anytime soon? Well I guess I would just refer you back to PM USA strategy which is to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro.
And we will just have to see how that plays out over time.
I guess sort of following on kind of the Marlboro share and pricing dynamics.
Marty just maybe you can give us some perspective on how you get comfort around the fact that some of these price-driven investments or the investments that you are making behind Marlboro’s building brand equity particularly among kind of the legal age to under 30 smoking group and that is not coming solely because of really the price investments that you are making.
There’s a number of metrics we follow around Marlboro of course but when you put them all together I think we feel quite confident that Marlboro’s health is good and that the investments we are making are wise.
It has a great brand equity.
It has high share.
It commands premium pricing.
Its price gaps have been stable throughout this terrible economic period.
In fact if you look back from the period 2007 to 2011 it both grew share and improved its margin.
And we know listen this is how Marlboro has grown right.
If you go back to Marlboro in 1954 with Red or when Menthol was launched in 60s or Gold in 70s we know that Marlboro has that kind of equity.
It’s that kind of a big brand.
And when you invest in it and it's got all these benefits we know that consumers will choose Marlboro.
So we have a lot of experience about both investing in and measuring the power of those investments in Marlboro.
We have every reason to think that’s the case today.
Okay.
And then Marty or Howard.
Just in terms of your guidance so just the commentary that the second half sort of moderates from the first half just wondering is it just really more a comparison issue are there any other factors that we should consider just in terms of a bit of a slowdown you’re expecting for the back half? And then in terms of taking the low-end of the guidance up today I know you've had strong performance in the first half from the equity income from SABMiller and then the PMCC.
So I'm just wondering how much of that is those factors as opposed to the tobacco business? Well I think that you pointed out that the comparison is probably the principal reason for that.
Listen the businesses are performing extremely well.
We're very pleased.
The execution of our plans is going fine but as we pointed out in the release capital of course adjusted OCI was up 56% for the quarter and 96% for the half.
As you know Judy those are transactional kinds of contributions from the leasing business.
But that's likely to moderate.
SAB which is doing a wonderful job was up nearly 25%.
And it does great but it hasn't performed historically at that level.
So we just think that when you do that and compare it to the first half it's likely to moderate a bit in the second.
I think that's the way to think about that.
Okay.
And then for the cigarette category the industry declined 3% in the first half.
Is that sort of reflective of the underlying consumption decline number and do you think that that's kind of a reasonable rate of decline to think about for the full year? Well as you know over time the decline rate has been a function of both secular decline rate and then some decline when prices go up with historical elasticity of about minus 0.3.
Actually that's been constant for some time.
We don't see much change in that in the current environment.
Just back on smokeless I'm wondering if you could give us a little more color there and I guess part of what I'm getting at is I know there is some trade issues and comparisons that skew some of it but it certainly looks like Skoal is accelerating and that some of the things that I think you are trying to do on that business look like they may be working.
Is there a corner you might be turning there? I think it’s probably as I described it just a couple of moments ago.
We focus on growing Copenhagen and Skoal together.
The brand is at different places in the marketplace.
They have different propositions.
Copenhagen has really had very very strong growth.
Skoal has to compete with that growth as well as compete against its competitors in the marketplace.
We’re making progress on Skoal I think.
And as long as the retail shares are growing together and we’re participating in the industry volume growth we’re able to grow our income in accordance with our plans.
And we have brand managers for Copenhagen and we have brand managers for Skoal and they are both trying to outcompete the other as well as the competition and we think that's the right way to attack that category.
That’s great.
And then on the cost side obviously you have the benefit of relatively benign input cost but has the drought this year put any pressure on leaf costs for this year or for next year? Yeah I think there is nothing really out of the ordinary on our cost this year.
We are tracking the drought’s impact on tobacco growers and there is -- I would say there is some modest impact today although they’ve recently gotten some rains in some key areas.
So while that’s on our watch list we don’t see any unusual impact at least today.
Russo &amp; Gardner</strong> I’m curious as to whether you found any steps to take in the context of these unusually low interest rates.
Either regarding your pension fund and its funding status or what other thing you might be able to do on your capital structure?  Sure.
I think we've been in low interest rate environment for some time now although as you accurately point out they've continued to head further south.
And I think we're pursuing the strategy we have over the last couple of years both in our pension plan and with our focus on seeking to reduce our effective interest rate.
And as you know we've done that by allowing some of our high interest debt to mature and then we've been going into the market periodically and getting quite advantageous rates.
And I think that the latest low rates just indicate that that opportunity is likely to be with us for some time.
I wanted to return to the smokeless tobacco segment and I was just curious if that business your business is more in a position to grow in line with the overall industry now.
Have you gotten Copenhagen and Skoal kind of to a position where that growth rate could be more in line with the industry? Well I think on an adjusted basis we think that it did grow in line with the industry.
Our strategy is to grow in line with the industry rate or a little bit better than that.
And you're correct to point out that if you take a bigger piece of the share that does help grow your volume there but we're I think well on the way to doing that and I think the numbers in the quarter reflect that.
That's great to see.
And just returning to Marlboro in the discussion if you back out the architecture and back out the innovation and the stepped up brand investment like the organic growth is that meeting your target? The underlying performance of that brand? Well as you know we don't back out that way but I guess I’ll just return to what I said before which is Marlboro's health is really very good.
It’s up three-tenths versus a year ago up two-tenths for the half.
We have our new Marlboro architecture that’s being put in place.
We have some new products that are in the marketplace.
I think we’re really pleased with how Marlboro is performing Ann.
I guess a couple of quick cash questions.
First I understand you paid down debt this quarter right? But is that why the share repurchase slowed down to I guess its slowest rate since you guys started buying back again maybe five quarters ago.
And then on CapEx can you just give a little color on why that outlook is changing down to $100 million? Sure.
Yeah I think you are pointing out that we had $600 million in debt that matured not in the second quarter but early in July and we did pay that off.
I will go into the details of how we calculate how much stock to repurchase.
But I would point out that three quarters into that five-quarter share purchase program we’ve purchased $700 million about worth of stock.
So we think we’re on a decent run rate and expect to finish that by the end of the year.
Did you have a second question? Yes on the CapEx.
Yeah on CapEx I would say that there is nothing unusual going on there.
We forecast our capital expenditures at the beginning of each year.
But then as we put together more detailed plans we scrutinize those capital expenditures more carefully and if there is an alternative way to achieve the result or if we can drive some incremental efficiencies we seek to do that.
And so as we pointed out we’ve now taken our capital expenditure forecast for the year from $150 million down to somewhere between $100 million and $125 million and we think that that's plenty in order to maintain the infrastructure we need in each of our businesses.
Great.
And then just one question on the guidance.
I know you guys said that EPS growth I guess would be easier in Q4 than Q3 and consensus is kind of there but not quite.
Can you just remind us of the puts and takes and why Q4 growth will be better than Q3? I think I would just rely on the remarks we made before Chris that it's going to moderate a bit in the back half compared to the first half for the reasons I articulated.
Marty I just wanted to go back to in terms of your satisfaction with the promotional investments on Marlboro particularly on special blends at Marlboro Black.
Could you talk a little bit about the decision to ease back on the promotions in May or June and how that speaks to the traction you're getting on those SKUs? Well look the promotional levels on these SKUs obviously are very carefully monitored over time and special blends of course have a different role to play than Black.
So it's worth just taking a second to make sure that's clear.
And special blends obviously their role is to offer SKUs at price points for some of the more promotion sensitive smokers that are in the franchise.
I think we've spoken before about 90% of Marlboro smokers choose the brand 100% of the time.
But that leaves you 10% or so liking other competitive franchises that are more promotion sensitive.
Special blend is a way to keep them in the franchise.
All the while we manage our margin at the Marlboro level and they’ve been very effective in that regard.
But of course you don't want to offer more promotion than is needed and so we’re able to moderate those or change those as circumstances warrant.
Marlboro Black on the other hand it's a new product offering and so what we're trying to do is to generate trial among adult competitive smokers.
And given the marketing restrictions in the industry you have to do that principally at point of sale and you do that with some promotional offers and that’s been the role of promotions for Marlboro Black.
And as soon as we get some trial there that meets our goals obviously it’s the same issue which is if you don’t have to spend more promotional money there than needed then you are able to back it off.
And I think that’s been what we’ve observed both with respect to special blend and Marlboro Black.
And then just second question.
If you could just talk broadly about the promotional and pricing environment in cigarettes in terms of what you are seeing from the premium competitors and the price gaps and the discount here.
You’ve got a little bit of reaction announced to the pricing you took in July just how that’s sticking.
And maybe if lower gas prices are helping at all in terms of trade down in the category? Well I think it’s fair to say that the industry’s been competitive.
It is competitive.
It is likely to be competitive.
And we don’t see a big significant change one way or the other in that and PM USA’s plans take that into account.
I want to ask you first did you disclose how much pricing helped revenue.
Is that something that you give? Yeah I think you can certainly calculate that from what is included in our press release.
Okay.
And secondly as you introduce new products can you describe whether you are hitting the wall so to speak with the FDA.
I gather that they think -- that the agency simply is not considering or at least not considering promptly request by the cigarette manufacturers for new and modified products.
Could you talk about that a bit and what impact that’s having on the company? Yeah.
There is a couple of things in your question maybe we should separate out just to be clear.
There was a major filing of so called substantial equivalents application some time ago which was the principal filing.
And what we've observed is that FDA is pretty methodically working through those.
There were a lot of them that were filed at the agency and it's worth remembering that the agency obviously is in its first kind of couple of three years of staffing up and putting processes and procedure in.
It's a pretty deliberate agency anyway and so they have some work to do in that regards.
So that's actually been I think pretty much what we expected which was they would work their way through that.
After that date of course they introduced regulated products into the marketplace.
You do have to file applications for substantial equivalents and the products can't be launched cannot be launched until approval.
I think most majors have applications that are pending there.
I think that's just more of the same.
They are trying to work through their structure and process about our approval.
I would distinguish that from the last part of your question which was modified risk products.
For example more conventional products.
There the agency is really just building out its science and policy base about how they are going to think about that.
And as you know they have conducted several hearings and if you're interested in what we have to say about that we have them on our website.
But I would distinguish that situation which is likely to take place over some period of time.
They have to get the science right before they are going to permit claims and that's what they are working through right now on that.
So on the first half of the question you're not kind of tapping your fingers and urging the FDA to get moving on that.
You seem to have some patience? While we planned for what was coming I think and so everyone would like their regulator to move promptly on matters.
But we have found actually FDA to be pretty okay about how it's going about its work.
And I'm sure that the speed will improve as they staff up over time.
Operator we don’t seem to have a question.
Thanks everyone for joining our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions we’ll be happy to help you at Investor Relations.
That concludes today's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations at Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
I am joined this morning by Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO and Howard Willard Altria’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria’s business results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2012 and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior-year period unless otherwise stated.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Marty Barrington.
Thanks Brendan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Altria delivered solid financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2012 while taking steps to strengthen its ability to create shareholder value in the future.
Our tobacco businesses grew their adjusted operating companies’ income and expanded their margins for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2012.
Each of our tobacco companies also grew their retail share for the same time periods while investing to develop their brands for the long-term.
Products introduced in recent years continued to support these income and retail share gains.
Our tobacco companies remain focused on developing and commercializing innovative new products to meet the volume preferences with all tobacco consumers.
The business performance of our operating companies enabled us to increase our already strong cash returns to shareholders.
Altria increased its dividend by 7.3% in the third quarter our 46th dividend increase in the last 43 years.
We also returned cash to shareholders by repurchasing over $260 million of our stock during the quarter.
Earlier today we announced a $500 million expansion of our current $1 billion share repurchase program.
We also took steps to enhance our capital structure during the quarter.
We purchased high coupon debt and issued new lower cost debt.
These actions reduced our 2018 and 2019 debt maturity tariffs lowered our future interest expense and reduced our weighted average coupon rate.
Altria grew its 2012 adjusted diluted EPS by 3.6% for the third quarter and 7.8% for the nine months.
These results were consistent with our expectations and include the negative impact of an increase in Altria’s 2012 full-year effective tax rate on operations related to the debt tender offer.
Smokeable Products segment delivered solid adjusted OCI growth and adjusted OCI margin expansion for the third quarter and nine months through higher list prices and effective cost management.
We coupled this solid OCI growth with retail share gains on Marlboro.
Marlboro’s new brand architecture has contributed to the brand’s results.
Marlboro’s brand building initiatives across our four product families have included a successful expansion of new products equity building promotions that engage millions of adult smokers and promotional offers intended to generate trial and conversion by adult competitive smokers.
In addition PM USA expanded Marlboro NXT a product in Marlboro Black family into 27 states at the end of third quarter.
Marlboro NXT contains capsule technology that allows adult smokers to switch from non-menthol to menthol taste.
Marlboro’s growth was complemented by retail share gains by L&amp;M in the Discount segment.
PM USA strong shipment volume outperformed the industry and its principal competitors on both a reported and on adjusted basis.
Black &amp; Mild also delivered strong retail share growth for the third quarter and nine months behind products that were introduced in recent years.
Black &amp; Mild’s results also benefited from the 2012 third quarter introduction of Black &amp; Mild Jazz into select geographies and its seasonal offering Summer Blend.
In smokeless tobacco USSTC’s objective is to increase its income through volume growth primarily by focusing on Copenhagen and Skoal.
USSTC aims to maximize the combined performance of these two leading premium brands by focusing on strengths of each brand.
Copenhagen and Skoal grew their combined reported shipment volume and retail share for both the third quarter and the first nine months.
This performance helps the Smokeless Product segment growth it’s quarter and nine month adjusted OCI and adjusted OCI margins.
Copenhagen continue to be the primary driver of volume and retail share growth as it benefited from new products introduced in recent years including the recent expansion of Copenhagen Southern Blend.
Skoal’s volume and retail share comparisons were impacted by competitive activity and Copenhagen’s strong performance.
Skoal’s nine month comparisons were also impacted by last year’s SKU delisting and the introduction of Skoal X-TRA.
USSTC is taking steps to improve Skoal’s performance and recently announced fourth quarter expansion of Skoal ReadyCut into over 20 states.
Skoal ReadyCut offers adult tippers and easier to control long cut product.
In the Wine segment Ste.
Michelle delivered strong adjusted OCI results for the third quarter and nine months through higher pricing higher shipment volume and improved premium mix.
We are pleased with our business results through the first nine months of 2012 and reaffirm and we expect to deliver adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7% to 9% for the full year representing a range of $2.19 to $2.23 per share.
We also expect to deliver full year reported diluted EPS between $2.03 and $2.07 per share.
I will now turn things over to Howard who will discuss our business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
In the Smokeable Products segment third quarter reported operating company's income grew by 3.9% primarily due to higher list prices effective cost management and higher reported shipment volume.
These favorable factors were partially offset by higher promotional investments behind Marlboro’s new brand architecture increased resolution expense and unfavorable mix due to L&amp;Ms volume growth in Discount.
For the first nine months reported operating companies income increased 4.2% primarily due to higher list prices effective cost management and lower charges related to tobacco and health judgments.
These favorable factors were partially offset by higher promotional investments behind Marlboro increased resolution expense unfavorable mix due to L&amp;Ms volume growth and lower reported shipment volume.
Excluding special items identified in our earnings press release 2012 adjusted operating companies income for the Smokeable Products segment increased by 4.3% to $1.6 billion for the third quarter and 3.7% to $4.7 billion for the first nine months.
Adjusted operating companies income margin income margin from 0.4 percentage point to 42.4% for the third quarter an increased 0.8 percentage point to 41.6% for the first nine months.
PM USA’s reported cigarette shipment volume increased 1.2% for the third quarter primarily due to retail share gains and changes in trade inventories; partially offset by the industry’s rate of decline and one less shipping day.
PM USA believes the trade depleted less inventory during the third quarter of 2012 versus the prior year period benefiting comparisons of reported shipments.
For the first nine months of 2012 reported cigarette shipment volume declined 0.4 of a percent primarily due to the industry’s rate of growth partially offset by volume growth as a result of retail share gains.
When adjusted for trade inventory dynamics and other factors PM USA estimates that its adjusted cigarette shipment volume was down approximately 1% for the third quarter and 0.5% for the first nine months.
Total cigarette category volume was estimated to be down 3.5% for the third quarter and 3% for the nine months.
PM USA increased its retail share by 1.2 share points to 49.9% for the third quarter and by 0.8 of a share points to 49.8% for the first nine months of 2012.
Marlboro gained a share point to deliver a 42.7% retail share for the third quarter and was up 0.5 a share point to 42.6% for the first nine months.
For the third quarter and the first nine months PM USA’s discount portfolio increased its retail share by 0.6 of a share point to 3.9% and 3.8% respectively as L&amp;M share gains were partially offset by basic share losses.
Reported cigar shipment volume was down 14% for the third quarter primarily due to the timing of promotional shipments and other changes in trade inventories and one less shipping day partially offset by volume growth from retail share gains.
Middleton believes the trade built inventory in the third quarter of last year prior to Middleton’s December 2011 price increase announcement which impacted volume comparisons.
For the first nine months Middleton’s reported cigar shipment volume declined 0.6 of a percent primarily due to changes in trade inventory partially offset by retail share gains.
Black &amp; Mild retail share increased to 0.8 of a share point to 29.9% for the third quarter and was up 1 share point to 30.1% for the nine months primarily driven by the success of its Classic Sweets Wine and Jazz untipped cigarillos.
Turning to smokeless products third quarter reported operating company's income was up slightly to $246 million and grew 2.7% to $678 million for the first nine months of 2012 primarily due to higher pricing higher volume and effective cost management.
These favorable factors were partially offset by growth in products introduced in recent years at a lower popular price higher restructuring charges related to our cost reduction program and higher promotional investments.
When adjusted for special items primarily related to restructuring charges the smokeless products segment operating company's income increased 3.3% to $254 million for the third quarter and 6.2% to $705 million for the first nine months of 2012.
USSTC and PM USA’s reported smokeless product shipment volume increased 5.9% for the third quarter driven by Copenhagen strong 12.1% volume growth as well as Skoal’s 2.8% volume gain.
Partially offset by volume declines in the balance of the portfolio.
Shipment volume for the first nine months of 2012 increased 1.9% as volume growth on Copenhagen was partially offset by volume declines in the balance of the portfolio.
When adjusted for changes in train inventories and other factors USSTC and PM USA estimated that their combined 2012 third quarter adjusted smokeless products volume grew approximately 5%.
USSTC and PM USA further estimate that the smokeless product category grew by approximately 5% over the 12 months ended September 2012.
USSTC and PM USA’s retail share of the smokeless products category increased 0.4 of a share point to 55.5% for the third quarter and 0.5 a share point to 55.4% for the first nine months of 2012.
Copenhagen and Skoal delivered strong combined retail share growth of 1.6 share points for the third quarter and 1.8 share points for the nine months.
Copenhagen grew its retail share by 2.3 share points for the third quarter and 2.4 share points for the nine months.
Skoal’s retail share declined 0.7 of a share point for the third quarter and 0.6 of a share point for the nine months as comparisons were impacted by the factors mentioned earlier In the wine segment St.
Michelle grew its third quarter reported operating company income by 13% to $26 million.
When adjusted for the impact of 2011 costs related to the UST acquisition third quarter operating company’s income increased 8.3%.
For the first nine months of 2012 reported operating company’s income grew 16.7% and adjusted operating company’s income increased 8.6% excluding acquisition related costs from last year.
St.
Michelle shipment volume increased 3.7% for the third quarter and 4% for the nine months.
The financial services segments third quarter reported an adjusted operating company’s income decreased 4.8% to $79 million primarily due to a $35 million decrease in the allowance for losses that favorably impacted operating company’s income in 2011.
This factor was partially offset by 2012 third quarter recoveries related to PMCC’s leased investment with American Airlines which filed for bankruptcy in November 2011.
For the first nine months of the year the financial services segment’s reported operating company’s income increased by more than 100% primarily due to PMCC’s leverage lease related charge of $490 million in the second quarter of last year higher gains and asset sales recoveries related to America Airlines and a decrease in the allowance for losses that favorably impacted operating company’s income earlier this year.
These favorable factors were partially offset by lower lease revenues in 2012 and a 2011 decrease in the allowance for losses that favorably impacted operating company’s income last year.
Excluding the leverage lease charges the financial services segment’s adjusted operating company’s income grew by 32.1% to $173 million for the nine months.
PMCC allowance for losses at the end of the third quarter was $99 million versus the $188 million at the end of the second quarter of 2012.
This reduction reflects write-offs related to the American Airlines bankruptcy.
Altria repurchased 7.7 million shares of its common stock in the third quarter for a total cost of $262 million.
Earlier this week Altria’s Board authorized the expansion of our current share repurchase program by $500 million to $1.5 billion.
Altria has $550 million remaining in this expanded program that it intends to complete by the end of the second quarter of 2013.
This program remains subject to the discussion of the Board and market conditions.
During the third quarter UST repaid $600 million of debt the matured in July.
Altria also purchased $2 billion of notes during 2018 and 2019 with coupons of 9.7% and 9.25 respectively.
In connection with the debt tender offered the company issued $1.9 billion in new 10 year notes with the coupon rate of 2.85% and $900 million in new 30 year notes with a coupon rate of 4.25%.
Our current cost management program remains on track and we have recorded net pretax charges of $264 million over the past four quarters.
We expect to incur the remaining pretax restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Charges related to this program is reflected in full year diluted EPS guidance.
Marty and I are now happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro’s price GAAP versus the lowest effective price cigarettes was 36% in the third quarter.
Marlboro’s net pack price in the third quarter was $5.79 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.24.
The cigarette discount category’s retail share was 27.4% for the third quarter.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax as of the end of September was $1.41 per pack an increase of $0.04 per pack versus the prior year.
Copenhagen’s third quarter retail price was $4.08 and its price GAAP versus the leading discount brand was approximately 37% in the quarter.
CapEx was $38 million for the third quarter and $77 million for the first nine months of 2012.
We estimate that our 2012 full year CapEx will be between $100 million and $125 million.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $56 million for the third quarter.
We estimate that 2012 full year ongoing depreciation and amortization will be approximately $230 million.
Operator do we have any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will take questions from the investment community first.
Our first question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Marty you saw in the last couple of days you know obviously we've heard from your competitors about the promotional environment and so their view that you as a price leader is pressuring the pricing environment and basically putting pressure on the overall industry profit pool.
So maybe just if you can just give us your perspective on your promotional strategy and how would you sort of defend against those comments from your competitors? Listen I'm not going to comment on what other folks are saying.
I will tell what we are trying to do.
What we are trying to do in this multiple segments is to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro; that has been the strategy for some time that strategy remains constant.
We have I think a good plan in place for 2012 to execute against that strategy and that's what you see playing out in the marketplace.
We are implementing a new Marlboro architecture which is part of our investment in Marlboro.
What I would say is that it’s a competitive industry it’s always been competitive it’s competitive today likely to be competitive as we go forward.
I don't see anything that particularly unique about it.
Marlboro is investing in its new architecture and that's a wise thing to do because Marlboro has been the engine of income growth in this multiple segment for Altria Group.
So that's how we look at it and we are pretty happy with how that's playing out this year.
Okay and if I sort of look at your income growth this year on this multiple segment so you are sort of down kind of 0.5% to 1% volume.
You are getting pricing sort of 2% to 3%.
Your operating profit up 4% to 5% and then if you look at the last couple of years you had volume down sort of 4% to 5% pricing up 5% to 6% getting to a similar operating profit growth of sort of 4% to 5% pricing up 5% to 6% getting to a similar operating profit growth of sort of 4% to 5%.
So if you kind of take us through your thought process and one versus the other in more price driven strategy as opposed to more share and volume driven strategy.
From your perspective kind of how you think about which is maybe the more appropriate strategy either in the near or longer-term basis? I just want to return to what I said is that the strategy is to maximize income while maintaining moderate share momentum on Marlboro.
It's not a question of choosing different strategies as much as it is.
There are ways to grow income.
We talked about cigarette pricing.
Pricing is of course important in cigarette category.
It has been important it will remain important but of course you can grow your income through other ways and we’ve spoken about this previously.
We're trying to manage our cost structure as efficiently as we can.
You saw the PM USA took a higher list took list prices up in the middle of the year.
We reduced our promotions actually our promotion allowances on Marlboro as we’ve gone through the year.
We will recall that on Marlboro special blend we had geographies where it was promoted at $0.75 other geographies where it began at the dollar and within the year those allowances have come down not once but twice first to $0.90 and then to $0.85.
We've spoken about Marlboro Black.
We had promotional allowances to generate trial and conversion among adult competitive smokers.
We produced those allowances as well similarly to Marlboro special blend.
So for us and we’ve talked about this previously it's a balance between maximizing income while never taking your eye off of Marlboro which is after all the driver of that success from time to time and we don’t look at this necessarily quarter-to-quarter as much as we look at it overtime because if you look how Marlboro has grown overtime that’s how its happen whether it was Marlboro Red in the 50s or Menthol in the 60s or Gold in the 70s or now Black we grow it overtime that’s how we think about it overtime and guess what it’s been a great contributor to the growth in adjusted EPS that it’s our long-term goal.
So that’s kind of how we think about it Judy and I guess the last thing I would say on it for context is the macro environment is a factor right we continue to be in an environment out of the great recession where the recovery has been modest at best.
Consumers remained under pressure tobacco consumers remain under pressure.
We have to meet the consumers where they are and so in that environment it’s hardly surprising that pricing may be a bit more restrained than in periods where housing is booming and unemployment is low and everybody is feeling good and consumer confidence is high that is not the situation the data tell us otherwise so that’s not to be discouraged about it and there are some signs that it may be improving and we sure hope so but that’s how we have been thinking about it which is trying to be sensible in that environment following our strategy maximizing income and keeping Marlboro healthy.
Your next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
I also wanted to ask you a couple of pricing based questions in the cigarette category I probably doesn’t surprise you.
Glad to have your question in any event David.
Whether it’s the economy or the competitive stat or the equity of Marlboro do you think there is a practical matter you are in a position where if you take more pricing than the category Marlboro share doesn’t grow like last year or if you take less pricing than the category Marlboro share does grow which is this year? Well I think it’s our job to manage that balance honestly David that's the short answer which is if you are trying to maximize income like we are we want to of course try to do that as best we can.
At the same time you want to make sure that Marlboro is healthy.
Marlboro is one fantastic brand right it’s got high equity it can command premium pricing it has high loyalty but it’s not the only brand in the marketplace.
And we try to be cognizant of both the macro environment and the competitive environment and our job is to balance that equation.
If you look at it it’s tempting again to look at a sort of within the quarter.
But if you look at Marlboro share growth what do we see sure its up in the third quarter but actually for the nine months what should up it’s up five-tenths.
If you look at it over a longer period of time but you look at it say from well I don't know let's call the end of the third quarter of 2008 to the end of the third quarter of 2012 Marlboro shares up eight-tenths.
So eight-tenths over four years I think we would characterize that as moderate share momentum and I think it shows in the equity and the brand there shouldn’t be any mistake that pricing is important and it will continue to be important but it is a balance and we are trying to be sensible about how we will do it I think that's how we think about it.
Okay and there is a follow-up question.
Marty both with Marlboro but also Copenhagen and Skoal if you look at the smokeless business the growth and the brand initiatives have been principally at price points below the traditional full price premium brand whether it’s Copenhagen Wintergreen or Skoal X-TRA or bulk of the Marlboro line extensions and clearly you have manage that from a price mix perspective and a profit delivery perspective but the question I wanted to ask you in that context is what's the risk of that two years from now or three years from now that those efforts have in effect eroded the premium brand equities; you do account for a lot now of those brands respective market shares? Yeah I think we are quite confident in the equity of those brands David and there's good reason to be confident in those brands.
If you look at Marlboro again just to take Marlboro before we go to smokeless remember Marlboro all sells at the same list price right.
So what you see in the marketplace so is the implementation of different promotional allowances to achieve different aims.
And we've spoken about this previously with you and others on the calls but just to take one second special blend well for example is to make sure that for more price sensitive consumers in the franchise that they have a place to go during this difficult economic period.
Your strategic choices obviously are you cannot meet them where they are in your franchise with a big huge brand like Marlboro and you can let them go.
We think the better strategy is to have a price point for them within the franchise and retain their business and I think that makes good sense and by the way you see that the margin increases at the Marlboro level again so we are managing the margin there.
If you look at the brand equity components of Marlboro they continue to be extremely small right.
We've shared the TNS scores overtime it has high brand loyalty.
The price gaps were so constant during the worst recession you would have thought that you would have seen an erosion in equity that they wouldn't command those price gaps they have been absolutely constant during the period.
The smokeless business David of course it’s a different situation right because we are trying there to grow income by participating in the growth in the category.
It’s a growing category unlike cigarette which is a declining category as you well know so if we can participate in the volume growth there and with Copenhagen and Skoal together gain some share we can grow our income quite nicely and I think you see that actually over the first nine months in the smokeless business.
To be sure we do have SKUs in the smokeless franchise that are at popular price points as well as having price points there that are mainline and the reason for that is again that's where some of the business is.
So we have a competitor that has an offering at a popular price point.
We believe that Copenhagen and Skoal can compete there and should compete there; all the while we want to manage the margin at that franchise level if you will and guess what we've been pretty successful in doing that.
Copenhagen and Skoal have grown together very nicely I mean if I look at it from again call it say Q3 of ’09 after the acquisition to Q3 ’12 their combined retail share growth is about four points and the margins have expanded all the while.
So that's a bit more complex I suppose but we think that the strategy is right there and again just to return I guess to the core of your question while we are trying to manage through that environment we are not concerned about the equity of those brands.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
I had a question for you in particular with Marlboro Black as an example.
I know certainly the measured of success for a new product in this category is the degree to which you can reduce promotion in the time in which you can do that.
So perhaps our expectation is a little high that promotion would come down.
I do characterize still the Marlboro Black promotion is a bit high.
It has come down to a unit but still high.
So I'm just curious as you look at the brand and the way it’s positioned today is it the economy is it the attempt to retain some of those Marlboro consumers that will shift.
It's resulting in a requirement for you to keep promotions at a relatively high rate or do you see this is just probably the natural progression as kind of building this brand and I know you could rush it down? The latter; I think its part of the natural progression of building the brand.
Remember Chris brands are build in three months.
Marlboro Black was launched earlier this year.
This is a category in which there are relatively high loyalty rates; people are in the category like their brands.
There are some participating more in the price value equation but for premium brands you have to have an offering to persuade someone not to buy the pack that they have been buying in to try yours and that’s the purpose of those promotions because we believe we’ve got a terrific product it’s in a terrific pack it's in a terrific franchise but we have to offer we have to raise awareness to begin with.
Then we have to send trial and hopefully we will get some conversion.
But again I would point out as you know these promotional allowances have come down and I think you know what one might conclude from that is is that those allowances are doing their job.
We’ve said previously we don’t have any desire to have promotional allowances any higher than they need to be to achieve their purpose.
I think you should probably read in to that that Marlboro Black is achieving its purpose.
We're very happy with that product.
We think it's a great addition to the Marlboro franchise.
It's got great demographics.
It's contributing to the equity.
It's a long-term play and that the ultimate success of Marlboro Black I think it'll be measured over the years not over a quarter or two.
Did you suggest that margins for the Marlboro brand were up this quarter? Smokeable segment I said that margins were up.
In the Smokeable segment okay sure I got you.
And then just one final question it’s in relation to inventory levels just to kind of give a base where we are today on inventory and that’s been jumping around quite a bit and still like in the fourth quarter.
But where do we stand today on sort of your inventory level I know you mentioned that it was less de-loading that occurred in the prior year; how would you characterize inventory today?  Yeah it doesn’t make for us it’s kind of washed out over the last nine months Chris as you know it does add over the course of the year there is just not a lot of difference over the nine month period.
Howard referred in his remarks to the fact that there was less depletion in the third quarter which flattened the results a little bit but it’s not really significant for the nine months.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Marty given your comments about the macro environment and price sensitive smokers is it fair to assume that as long as the economy doesn’t pick up there is maybe a chance that promotions for some of these [non-exemptions] will be dived back much more significantly?  Well we will see overtime Thilo is the answer.
Like you and everyone else I am sure everyone hopes that things are going to improve and if they do obviously we will all take that into account as we look at our promotional allowances; I just don’t know how to predict that going forward.
What’s your best assessment there how much Marlboro market share would be at risk if you took away promotions all together?  We don’t think about it that way; we are managing the brand in a very different kind of way.
We are trying to maximizing coming to category while making sure that Marlboro is healthy.
So that’s just a completely different way of looking at it which isn’t ours.
But market share is part of the equation right?  Sure we are trying to maintain modest share in the Marlboro.
Okay.
And then Howard a question for you given the market share losses for Skoal and some of the smaller UST brands since you acquired UST at what point will you have to seriously consider asset impairment tax and what point do we have to get concerned about write-off for some of these brands? Yeah well as you know that's a calculation we do on a pre-regular basis; we certainly revisit that in any case of the fourth quarter.
So I think we will wait and see; I think when you look at Copenhagen and Skoal they have had quite nice growth over the time since the acquisition but obviously Copenhagen has have the stronger share than the Skoal.
So we’re certainly doing those kinds of calculations and if we end up in an impairment situation we will certainly let you know but that's how we do quite regularly.
Just from an accounting perspective is it just the volume growth you have to look at or do market shares play a role in that determination as well? Well the primary driver of the impairment tax is really income; and if looking and what the expected income is out into the future and comparing that to the valuations that were used in valuing the trade marks at the time of the acquisition.
So income is the bigger driver than either share or volume.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer of Citigroup.
Just to circle back on the competitive landscape part of (inaudible) issue; I think about the growth in the total tobacco profit pool which is something you guys have pointed to in the past.
Over the last four years it’s been fairly volatile ranging from anywhere to 2% to 8%.
As you think about the total US tobacco profit pool growth going forward can you give us an indication of what you think the right growth rate is? Well I'm not going to comment on profit pools I’ll just comment on how we think about running our business which is as you know we have the company positioned to participate as a total tobacco company we have this terrific business of PM USA we have a business at Middleton we have a great UST smokeless business.
So as those companies follow their plans and maximize their income and participate in the way that we described it earlier in the call we expect obviously that we will do just fine with that.
So I would limit my comments to what our plans are maybe and that's supposed to be anything else.
Understood.
I would just like to turn to NXT for a second.
I know it’s definitely very early days given the roll out that you've done in late September but can you give us any indications of early consumer response to that brand.
No honestly Vivien I wish I could but it’s really literally weeks so I just don't have anything to give you there I'm sorry.
Any color on kind of future plans for the roll out.
Well I mean we've announced our plans for what we are going to do with Marlboro NXT.
I think it’s a terrific product; it’s a nice offering its going to be a nice addition to the Marlboro Black family.
Everyone has high hopes for us again but as you correctly pointed out you have to see what it does in the market.
We've got a good plan for it a good support plan.
So I think it will do fine we just have to see the data.
And just lastly can you comment on what your share of menthol looks like today and whether it’s up relative to the end of 2011 given the success we've seen for Marlboro Black.
I don't know that I have a comment on that.
I would have to maybe Brendan will get back to you.
I just don't have the number in front of me.
Sorry.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
I also have a question on Marlboro maybe asked a little differently and it’s related to innovation.
I'm curious how much of your share gains in the quarter do you estimate were being driven by the new line extensions and I'm trying to understand if you have comfort with how much incremental growth you are getting from these versus growth from your underlying core Marlboro brand and I'd be curious to hear how full your pipeline is next year for Marlboro and then overall.
Okay.
Well innovation is a great topic thanks for raising it.
We don't break out at the sub segment level as you know but we can observe it right that if you look at innovation in Marlboro its going through a period really I think of accelerated innovation isn't it.
We've got Marlboro Black which we are very happy with.
We've got Marlboro NXT you remember we have the packaging innovation on Marlboro 83 and while we don’t disclose our pipeline of course we have excellent brand management teams.
It is actually part of the power of the architecture which we have explained previously.
We have our brand management structure now aligned against the four product families within Marlboro and each of them is developing excellent plans not just for this year and next year but beyond which includes a variety of product ideas programmatic ideas and the likes.
So we are pretty happy about how Marlboro architecture is rolling out and innovation is a key component of that.
And then I guess the last question would be on your discount cigarette segment which has sustained pretty strong momentum this year.
Could you talk a little more about your strategy for this segment and then in terms of L&amp;M and its share gains is the brand taking share do you think from other discount brands or is the growth maybe being driven by down trading from some of the premium brands or are you seeing both? Good question our strategy of course is while we focus on premium and again more than 90% of PM USA shipments are premium there is a discount segment in the category of about 27%.
We want to make sure we have an offering there and the offering that we have is L&amp;M and it's doing a very nice job there I think.
In some respects it's taking share that our former discount brand Basic sheds as it raises its price and its margins.
Our strategy is obviously to just to have an offering there.
Our retailers like for us to have an offering there.
There is some business there.
We have a competitor obviously it’s got a significant offering there.
We want to make sure that we’ve got a competitive offering.
So our strategy on L&amp;M is to have that offering there for that purpose and as you’ve seen this year certainly has been a contributor to volume which is nice.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
As you talk about maximizing income I would love for you to give a little color there because this year certainly it's being helped by the restructuring the cost savings that you’ve got and those are as you said skewed towards this year.
As you move in to next year do you think about maximizing your income on an operating basis or on a net income basis? And by that I mean how much would the interest expense savings become part of that equation? Well a couple of different questions in there; let me try to unpack and to do justice to it.
Certainly I am not in a position to talk about what we're going to do going forward but when we talk about maximizing income I would refer to the comments I made earlier Michael which is you can do that through a variety of ways right pricing is important has been important will continue to be important.
We do manage our cost structures carefully because they can contribute.
We watch the promotional allowances very carefully.
So that strategy I think should be seen as constant without commenting on what we may do in the future.
Do you want to talk about interest expense Howard?  Sure.
I think Marty just referred to the strategy for the smokeable business.
I think when we look at the overall company we’ve talked about our longer term objective of growing our EPS 7% to 9% and certainly there we have multiple levers.
Certainly the biggest contributor is the smokeable business but we’ve also seen nice contributions from our investment in SABMiller as well as the smokeless business and some of the other areas and you importantly point out that as a result of the tendered refinancing we did this year we expect to see a reduction in interest expense.
But when we think about our overall EPS growth I think we look at really all of those levers as opportunities to increase EPS overtime.
That’s helpful but just to be clear so you are saying when you talk about the cigarette business and maximizing income there you don’t necessarily mean operating income?  No I don’t think anybody said that.
What we said is there is a number of ways that you can within the PMUSA business smokeable segment to maximize income there is pricing; there is cost management and the likes.
I wouldn’t take that from the comments and then Howard’s correctly pointing out that the Altria business model which is diversified in I would argue differentiated from our principal competitors is that there are multiple levers for us to achieve our long term goals of adjusted diluted EPS including our smokeless business and our wine business and our exposure to the SAB alcohol assets and the like you know its provided us with a number of levers in order to achieve those goals.
I think that's where we are trying to communicate if that wasn't clear.
That's helpful.
On the market share side do you have specific objectives there and how significant is the 50% share mark psychologically.
Is that an internal objectives because obviously you reach that again in last quarter it’s fairly [below] right now is there something that you focus on? You talked about [PMU] Michael? You are right.
Yeah I think it’s to best explained by the overarching strategy of maintaining modest share for month-to-month.
Marlboro while maximizing income out of the smokeable segment and I think that there is no magic numbers anywhere; you have to look at this competitively said you have to look at the environment in any point of time.
As long as we are following that strategy maximizing income and delivering to our shareholders to what they expect that's how we think about.
Okay thanks.
And then just one last question back on the introductory pricing I know you’ve explained how variable that is for [contrail] but is there any expectations with those wouldn’t talking like a Black or special blend become [imperative] with the rest of the portfolio given the state of list prices or did they - currently do they have a discounted profile what is the right way to think about how those compared? Well I would refer to the explanation I gave earlier which is each of those SKUs has a role to play we have promotional strategies to design to help them achieve the objectives set for those roles and obviously as you know we don't want to spend more promotional dollars than we have to to achieve them because we are trying to maximize our income there.
So I wouldn't think of it as any one moment in time as much as it is promotional allowances that support the strategy of growing those brands.
I guess what's making me wonder a little bit is that the Black strategy with a sort of a premium value almost mid price point and a little bit of a way is reminiscent of something like (inaudible) down in smokeless but are you suggesting that its not meant to going permanently be in that sort of a new lower tier but that its just a gradual process to get that drifted back closer to drifting in price?  Yeah I think we've explained that it’s a promotional allowance designed to raise awareness and generate trial and conversion of adult competitive smokers and that's its purpose.
Thank you.
We would now like to take questions from the media.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from Thomas Russo of Gardner Russo &amp; Gardner.
Russo &amp; Gardner</strong> Hey Marty I switched over to the media.
Marty thank you for being on the call and a couple of quick questions for you.
But first has to do with whether you and Murray might be spending any particular amount of time down in Madison County and in general look at cost of the developing aspects of litigation but specifically the price files case that might be revisited.
What's your sense there? Well we haven't heard anything.
I think we've got updates out on the price case but I think that the issue has been brief there Tom and its sitting with the judge and I don't think we've heard anything as of this morning.
Russo &amp; Gardner</strong> Howard congratulations on refinancing so much high cost that was terrific do you have the capacity to keep going back to the market like you did with the longer data paper and taking advantage of today's remarkably low rates for the [prefunding] in the sense the future pay downs of other blocks of debt? Yeah I think if you are asking do we have the ability to do what we did this year into the future and I would say that that's certainly an option.
But its just one of many options we have in thinking about how to use our cash and how to reduce our effective interest rate and I think we will make those decisions as the year progresses.
Russo &amp; Gardner</strong> Congratulations on that move though just fantastic.
And what about the role of the lower interest rate as it impacts your pension obligations and your funding requirements and how you might be rethinking that the overall pension as to your liability exposure in light of the high net [percentile] cost by remarkably low rates? Yeah I think you raised an important point which is as the discount rate has continued to trend downward this year that does have an impact on our pension costs and that's something we are looking at quite carefully.
I'm pleased to say though that as you look at the overall market performance this year the market performance has been a bit more positive than its been in some years in the past.
So there's some offset there but that's certainly something we are looking at quite closely because both of those factors are going to have an impact on pension expense going forward.
Your next question comes from Nik Modi of UBS.
Just a couple of quick questions.
On the architecture if I have the strategy right I mean it seems like you’ve been really focused on the Black portion of the architecture so far this year.
Is it fair to assume that you're going to kind of work your way around architecture over the following quarters and years? Is that kind of a way we should be thinking about it? Yeah I think what we’ve said Nik is that we’ll be rolling out our investments in that architecture through ‘12 and ‘13.
Okay perfect and then just following upon Barney’s question on the innovation.
You said your folks are working on a lot of stuff.
But in terms of what's already approved by the FDA I mean is the pipeline still relatively focused.
It seems like you guys had a lot of stuff in the marketplace before the proper dates.
So I am curious on how full your existing approved pipeline is that will be helpful? I understand your question.
We were I would say plan full about the substantial equivalent stake and so I think we're in pretty shape.
Obviously the other dimension to your question is in light for the FDA obviously to start moving on substantial equivalents because people have applications that are pending and I think that’s a fair request.
They're building out their structure over there and they’ve made comments about how they’re going about that.
I would expect that overtime you are going to see the FDA start to rule.
So I just wouldn’t want to leave anyone with the impression.
I don't think that there is going to be some sort of a magic date and if you are in before you are okay and after that you are not.
I think that will probably result overtime.
And the last question Marty is just kind of a bigger picture question.
The Altria business model has been kind of moderate share gains and balancing with profit growth and this quarter I mean obviously 100 basis points of share gains from Marlboro is pretty big number for a pretty large brand.
And your new CEO and I know I have been getting a lot of questions so I am sure your folks have been getting the same about strategy and if it’s changing it’s very clear from what you have been saying that it’s not changing but certainly the numbers would suggest otherwise.
So I was hoping you can just give kind of your viewpoints so you can help clarify for people exactly kind of what’s different about the strategy what’s not relative to the prior year’s which is obviously have been very good for the stock price? Thanks.
Yeah thanks for asking that question.
The strategy is not changing Nik.
We have been very successful at doing what we are doing.
I think again as I mentioned once or twice this morning I think it looks it depends in some respect to how you look the time period sure enough if you look at the quarterly comparison it’s a 100 basis points.
If you look at it over the nine month period its five-tenths if you look at over a four year periods it’s eight-tenths.
I think that’s consistent with how we have been taken about that overtime and we have no intention of changing that it’s been enormously successful for Altria.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Karen Lamark of Federated Investors  I must have I missed it did you give the comparable estimated market share for discounted brands in the prior year.
I think you suggested 27.4% but I wondered if you could give the year-over-year comparison? And that’s first question.
Yeah I mean if you look at the discount share that we spoke about was 27.4% in the prior year quarter it was 27.9%.
So it’s come down modestly.
Okay.
And not to be how do you define discounts is it simply by brand and known brand positioning that is it does not include premium discounted premium brands or line extensions is that true? Yes the way we define discount is we have a set of brands that we identify as discount brands and it does not include or promoted on premium brand volume.
Does that changed overtime or let’s say the last year or so? No it’s been largely consistent for sometime.
Okay is it to assume that if the macro pressures and prices that if smokers persist that you would not change that definition in other words you would not include anyone’s wine extension promoted premium brands is that true? Well I hesitate to make a statement of what we might to do in the future on something like this but I can tell you it certainly not something we’ve considered.
This has been the way we define discount for quite sometime and to me as this times it seems quite logical.
Thank you your next question comes from Andrew Kieley of Deutsche Bank.
Marty I just want to ask last question on promotion if the cigarette competitors are adjusting their promotion programs as well in response to the economy or other factors.
How do you think about compatibility of that kind of situation with the profit pool on your sort of long-term income objectives? Well I am going to go back to what I have said Andrew which is we’ve got two plans in place.
We take everything into account when we put them in place and we are going to execute against our plans which are consistent with the strategy on that.
I have outlined and certainly I wouldn’t comment on what we might or might not do going forward we are going to stick to our netting.
Okay on Marlboro would you say at this point that the brand has I don't know some what more attractive opportunity in Menthol than in non-Menthol? I think Marlboro has got a big reach.
It appeals to lots of adult smokers its proven that not just recently but over decades as you've seen the charge with how the brand grows first with Red and Menthol and Gold and Black.
It’s a big brand it’s got a lot of room for a lot of flavor segments it’s got a room for a lot of adult smokers and that's how we think about it as opposed to one particular segment or another.
And just last question for Howard if you could comment on the cost savings program of the dollar amount accelerated sequentially or sort of where we are on the status of the program.
We continue to make progress on the cost reduction program and we are really on track for $400 million in savings by the end of next year.
Your final question will be coming from Michael Felberbaum of Associated Press.
First can you talk a little bit more broadly about the Marlboro brand architecture and how that plays into your ability to maintain and gain market share and what are the top selling brand.
Secondly your competitors have made some investments in electronic cigarettes and other next generation type products and wondering if you can comment at all about any of your plans in that area.
Thank you for your questions.
We've explained previously I think that the Marlboro architecture is the next evolution really in how that brand which has grown over time can continue to grow into the future and we have a product families in it Red Green Gold and Black we've set up our SKUs at retail so that its much more evident to an adult smoker when they walk in what the Marlboro architecture looks like.
We have our brand teams arranged around that.
It actually provides some room for the brand to operate.
Remember it’s about a 42 share brand so it’s really up if you will while they are all Marlboro and they all stand to where or come to where the flavor is.
They do have slightly different positions and we want to give Marlboro the license if you will to reach out to all the smokers who want to be in the franchise.
It’s a terrific brand with great equity and great premium pricing and we believe that the architecture is the next logical step about how to grow that brand over time and you will see that played out in the marketplace through products and programs and at retail when we like.
We are aware of the developments in each cigarettes it probably represents what we already know which is that there are some adult smokers who are looking for alternatives in the tobacco space and some of them have gone to e-cigarettes as an exploration at least about whether that's going to be for them and that's a situation obviously that we monitor closely and we will keep an eye on that.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us in Investor Relations and we look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and (inaudible) 2012 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
I am joined this morning by Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO and Howard Willard Altria’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria’s 2012 business results for the fourth quarter and full year and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and on an adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings press release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior-year period unless otherwise stated.
Before we begin I want to make you aware that high winds in the Richmond area have been causing interruptions to our phone service this morning.
In the event we get disconnected we have some backup plans in place and I ask for your patience.
If you remain on the line we will rejoin quickly.
Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce Marty Barrington.
Thanks Brendan.
Good morning everyone.
Altria delivered strong results and returns for its shareholders in 2012.
Altria grew its full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share by 7.8% behind the business performance of our operating companies complemented by higher earnings from our equity investment in SABMiller.
Our 2012 total shareholder return of 11.8% for the full year outperformed our U.S.
tobacco peers and the S&amp;P 500’s consumer staples sector though not the S&amp;P 500 index which delivered a total return of 16%.
Altria’s results were driven by effectively executing on our core strategies.
First our consumer products companies invested in strong premium brands that provide the foundation for future income growth.
Each of our tobacco operating companies seek to grow income while maintaining modest share momentum for its core premium brands.
Despite a continuing challenging external environment our tobacco operating companies’ premium brands had an excellent year as our companies continued investing for their long-term success.
These companies grew their adjusted operating companies’ income and gained retail share in cigarettes cigars and smokeless tobacco for the full year of 2012.
Beginning with the smokeable product segment PM USA introduced Marlboro’s new brand architecture in 2012 and supported Marlboro’s four product families red gold green and black with brand building activities throughout the year.
These activities included expanded distribution of products and equity enhancing promotions to engage millions of adult smokers.
PM USA also engaged adult competitive smokers with trial generating promotions as PM USA moderated as the year progressed.
Behind these investments PM USA grew Marlboro retail share and strengthened the Marlboro brand.
Middleton continued to enhance its product portfolio and new products contributed to its full year retail share gains.
In smokeless product segment Copenhagen and Skoal delivered solid volume growth and retail share gains on a combined basis for the full year.
These results were primarily due to the ongoing contributions of Copenhagen long-cut wintergreen and long cut straight and the expansion of Copenhagen southern blend.
In wine St.
Michelle delivered solid volume growth through its continued emphasis on expanding distribution into off-premise channels.
Second our companies continued to pursue product innovation.
Products introduced in recent years by Marlboro Black &amp; Mild and Copenhagen and Skoal gained retail share and contributed to the company's full year share growth in 2012.
During the year PM USA repositioned Marlboro black expanded Marlboro NXT a part of the Marlboro black family into additional geographies and introduced Marlboro 83s part of the Marlboro red family in updated packaging.
In 2012 Middleton continued to address adult cigar smokers interest in variety in seasonal cigar blends.
Black &amp; Mild dark blend and Black &amp; Mild summer blend as well as with its 2012 third  quarter introduction of Black &amp; Mild Jazz untip cigars into select states.
In December 2012 the brand announced the plans to launch Black &amp; Mild Jazz plastic tip and wood tip cigars nationally.
In the smokeless products segment U.S.
STC expanded distribution of products including Skoal Ready Cut and Copenhagen Southern blend.
Skoal Ready Cut offers adult long cut diverse great tastes in an innovative moist smokeless tobacco form.
Copenhagen southern blend delivers a mellow taste in a manageable long cut form.
Our companies also continued to support the development of spit-free smokeless tobacco alternatives to cigarettes with the 2012 introduction of Verve discs into elite market and integrating it to develop innovative nicotine containing products with Okono AS.
Third our tobacco operating companies effectively managed costs in 2012.
For the full year cost management and higher pricing supported expansion of adjusted operating companies’ income margins for the smokeable and smokeless products segments.
Our companies made significant progress on our current cost reduction program by reducing head count consolidating certain facilities improving business processes and pursuing other savings.
These actions with initiatives planned for 2013 as part of the program make us confident that we will achieve our goal of $400 million in annualized savings versus previously planned spending by the end of 2013.
Finally Altria maintained a strong balance sheet which enabled it to continue to deliver strong cash returns to shareholders.
In 2012 Altria enhanced its capital structure by purchasing high coupon debt and issuing new lower cost debt.
These actions reduced our 2018 and 2019 maturity towers lowered future interest expense and reduced our weighted average coupon rate.
Dividends contributed 5.8% to our 2012 total shareholder return of 11.8% as Altria maintained its target dividend payout ratio of approximately 80% of its adjusted diluted EPS and increased its dividend by 7.3% in August.
As you know Altria joined with the broad coalition of businesses associations and shareholders to support making permanent the lower person tax rates on dividend income and maintaining parity between the tax treatment of dividends and capital gains.
Congress and the President now have established dividend and capital gains tax rates for couples earning $450 000 or less between 0 and 15% and that 20% couple’s earnings more than $450 000.
We’re pleased that parity has been retained between the tax treatment of dividends and capital gains.
In addition to returning cash to shareholders through dividends Altria repurchased $1.1 billion of its shares in 2012.
We have $57 million remaining under the current $1.5 billion program and expect to complete the program by the end of the second quarter of 2013.
In summary in 2012 Altria continued its track record of delivering strong returns to shareholders.
We achieved these results through disciplined execution of our core strategies and we believe that our 2012 performance including investments in our premium brands position us well for 2013 and beyond.
Turning to 2013 while there are signs of modest improvement in certain economic indicators we remain cautious about the business environment.
Adult consumers remain under economic pressure as they face the end of the payroll tax holiday as well as continuing high unemployment.
And with a number of states facing budget shortfalls tobacco products will remain a target for excise tax increases.
Altria forecasts that its full year adjusted diluted EPS will increase by 6% to 9% to a range of $2.35 to $2.41 from a base of $2.21 in 2012.
We also expect to achieve 2013 reported diluted EPS in the range of $2.34 to $2.40.
Howard Willard Altria’s chief financial officer will now discuss Altria’s business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
The smokeable products segment’s reported operating companies income results for the fourth quarter increased 25.9% primarily due to higher list prices lower restructuring charges and lower charges related to tobacco and health judgements partially offset by higher promotional investments by PM USA behind Marlboro’s new brand architecture and increased resolution expense.
For the full year of 2012 reported operating companies’ income for the segment increased 8.8% primarily due to higher list prices lower restructuring charges lower charges related to tobacco and health judgements and effective cost management partially offset by higher promotional investments increased resolution expense unfavourable mix due to L&amp;M’s volume growth and lower shipment volume.
Adjusted operating companies’ income which is calculated excluding restructuring charges and tobacco and health judgments increased 5.9% to $1.5 billion for the fourth quarter and 4.2% to $6.3 billion in the full year of 2012.
For the fourth quarter and full year adjusted operating companies’ income margins for the smokeable product segment increased nine-tenths of a percentage point to 39.9% to 41.2% respectively.
PM USA’s reported cigarette shipment volume increased 0.4% for the fourth quarter primarily due to retail share gains and one extra shipping day partially offset by the industry’s rate of decline.
After adjusting for the extra shipping day and changes in trade inventories PM USA’s fourth quarter domestics cigarette volume was estimated to be down approximately 1%.
For the full year PM USA’s reported shipment volume decreased 0.2% primarily due to the industry’s rate of decline partially offset by volume growth as a result of retail share gains and one extra shipping day.
When adjusted for an extra shipping day and changes in trade inventories PM USA estimates that its full-year domestic shipment volume was essentially unchanged outperforming the estimated adjusted industry rate of decline of approximately 3%.
Brand building initiatives to support Marlboro’s new architecture contributed to the brand’s retail share gains of one percentage point for the fourth quarter and six-tenths of a percentage point for the full year.
Marlboro’s retail share was 42.6% for both the fourth quarter and full year.
These gains were complemented by L&amp;M’s growth in discount.
PM USA’s discount products gained three-tenths of a percentage point to deliver a 3.9% retail share for the fourth quarter and five-tenths of a percentage point for a 3.8% share for the full year.
PM USA’s total retail share grew 1 percentage point to 49.8% for the fourth quarter and an eight-tenths of a percentage point to 49.8% for the full year.
Middleton’s fourth quarter reported cigar shipment volume declined 1% primarily due to changes in trade inventories and retail share losses.
For the full year of 2012 reported cigar shipment volume declined seven-tenths of a percent primarily due to changes in trade inventories partially offset by volume growth as a result of retail share gains.
Black &amp; Mild’s retail share declined 1.4 percentage points to 29.3% for the fourth quarter and increased five-tenths of a percentage point to 30.0% for the full year.
Smokeless product segments fourth quarter reported operating companies income grew 27.1% primarily due to lower restructuring charges related to our cost reduction program higher volume and higher pricing partially offset by unfavorable mix due to growth in products introduced in recent years at a low popular -- lower popular price.
For the full year reported operated companies income increased 8.4% primarily due to higher pricing higher volume and effective cost management partially offset by unfavorable mix.
Excluding the impact of restructuring costs and UST acquisition-related cost operating companies’ income grew 9.5% to $254 million for the fourth quarter and 7% to $959 million for the full year.
USSTC and PM USA smokeless product shipment volume increased 9.6% for the fourth quarter and 3.9% for the full year primarily due to the combined volume growth of Copenhagen and Skoal.
Copenhagen shipment volume increased 12.4% for the fourth quarter and 10.8% for the full year as the brand continued to benefit from products introduced in recent years including the May 2012 expansion of Copenhagen Southern Blend into select geographies.
Skoal grew its shipment volume by 9.0% for the fourth quarter and six-tenths of a percent for the full year.
Comparisons of Skoal’s full year shipment volume were negatively impacted by the de-listing of seven SKUs partially offset by the growth of Skoal X-TRA.
After adjusting for changes in trade inventories and other factors USSTC and PM USA estimate that their combined 2012 fourth quarter and full year domestic smokeless product shipment volume grew approximately 5%.
USSTC and PM USA believe that the smokeless category grew at an estimated rate of approximately 5% over the 12 months ended December 31 2012.
Copenhagen and Skoal grew their combined retail share by 1 percentage point from the fourth quarter and 1.6 percentage points for the full year.
Copenhagen's retail share increased 1.6 percentage points to 29.0% for the fourth quarter and 4.2 percentage points to 28.4% for the full year as the brand continued to benefit from products introduced in recent years including the 2012 expansion of Copenhagen Southern Blend.
For both the fourth quarter and the full year Skoal’s retail share declined six-tenths of a percentage point to 21.9% and 22.2% respectively.
Skoal share for both periods was negatively impacted by competitive activity and Copenhagen strong performance partially offset by share gains by Skoal X-TRA.
The 2011 de-listing of SKUs also negatively impacted Skoal’s retail share comparisons for the full year.
USSTC and PM USA's total smokeless products retail share decreased one-tenth of a percentage point to 55.4% for the fourth quarter and increased three-tenths of a percentage point to 55.4% for the full year.
The wine segment delivered strong operating companies income and volume results in 2012.
The wine segments 2012 fourth quarter and full year reported operating companies income increased 10.8% and 14.3% respectively primarily due to higher pricing improved premium mix and higher shipment volume partially offset by costs related to Ste.
Michelle's sales force expansion.
Comparisons of full year reported operating companies income results were also impacted by higher costs for select vintages incurred in 2012 partially offset by UST acquisition-related costs incurred in 2011.
Adjusted operating companies income which is calculated excluding UST acquisition-related costs increased 10.8% for the fourth quarter of 2012 and 9.5% for the full year.
Ste.
Michelle's 2012 volume wine shipment grew by 2.9% for the fourth quarter and 3.7% for the full year.
The financial services segments reported and adjusted fourth quarter operating companies income was unchanged to $10 million as comparisons were impacted by an increase in allowance for losses in 2011 related to the American Airlines bankruptcy and lower gains on asset sales in 2012.
Comparisons of the segments full year reported operating companies income were impacted by special items.
For the full year of 2011 the financial services segment reported an operating companies' loss of $349 million primarily due to the 2011 second quarter charge of $490 million related to the tax treatment of PMCC's LILO and SILO transactions.
Additionally the financial services segment's reported operating companies’ income for the full year of 2012 was positively impacted by a decrease in the allowance for losses and recoveries related to transactions involving PMCC's leases to American Airlines.
These factors were partially offset by lower lease revenues.
For the full year PMCC's adjusted operating companies income increased 29.8% to $183 million.
Marty and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compile let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 36% in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Marlboro's net pack price in the fourth quarter was $5.80 and $5.75 for the full year while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.26 in the fourth quarter and $4.23 for the full year.
The cigarette discount categories retail share was 27.8% for the fourth quarter and 27.5% for the full year.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the fourth quarter was $1.41 per pack unchanged from the third quarter and up $0.04 from fourth quarter of last year.
Copenhagen's fourth quarter retail price was $4.11 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 38% in the quarter.
For the full year Copenhagen's retail price was $4.09 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was 39%.
CapEx was $47 million in the fourth quarter and $124 million for the full year.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $56 million for the fourth quarter and $225 million for the full year.
Operator do we have any questions? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from line Nik Modi with UBS.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Nik.
So just a quick question on the Marlboro architecture and I guess now that’s been kind of in place for a year and you saw some pretty good retail share gains with pricing improvement.
Just curious are there any diagnostics that you have that you can share kind of giving us some insight on how effective this has been and so we can think about next year and the years after in terms of some of the benefits you will get from this initiative.
Thanks for your question.
Sure we have diagnostics some of which are internal and some of which we talk about in settings like this I think you’ve already alluded to one which is we had nice share gain which is consistent with PM USA’s objective to maximize income but trying to keep Marlboro healthy.
We have diagnostic Nik on resetting retail.
One of our objectives during the year was to try to get a number of retail stores reset to better reflect the Marlboro architecture and I think our sales and distribution group did an excellent job of doing that.
If you have been in stores I think you have seen the improvements that have been made at the presentation of the Marlboro brand at retail.
At the end of the day it’s always about that balance about trying to maximize income while taking the steps that are appropriate to make sure that Marlboro is healthy over the long term and we’re very pleased with how PM USA executed on that this year.
And Marty just a quick follow up to that.
I don’t think I remember two quarters in a row where Marlboro has gained this much market share which is quite a feat given how big the brand is and it’s philosophical I mean you say you want to maintain market share momentum and optimize income.
It would be crazy for me to think that this is just too much share gains for a brand that size.
I think Nik the difference simply is in what time period you are looking at.
If you look at it say for a quarter or even for two quarters you have to be sure that there were some share gains there but that is not the strategy.
I’d just give you a – for example just one data point because we manage the brand over time and when we say over time we’re talking about more than several quarters in fact over years.
And if one looks back pick the data point fourth quarter of 2009 and you measure share gains to the fourth quarter of 2012 it’s nine-tenths.
So you have nine-tenths of share point over three years.
We would characterized that as modest share momentum for Marlboro over time and of course we have other metrics to measure Marlboro’s health.
We want to make sure that all of its brand equity numbers are strong and hopefully improving in the right direction.
Nik I think that’s how we think about it.
And we try to be sure -- share gains are not just a function of how much we invest into brand but other competitive dynamics.
And so it’s awfully awfully hard to read simply on a quarter or over two quarters.
So I would return I think to understanding our strategy.
Our strategy is to maximize income there.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Just a follow up on pricing Marty if I could.
So in 2012 relative to the last few years there was clearly a greater emphasis on investing in Marlboro promotional spending somewhat less than that pricing and very good share growth.
Can you give us a sense what’s in the plan for 2013 in terms of the relative emphasis of those variables? Now I think we will continue with our strategy David and obviously for competitive reasons we’re not going to lay out PM USA’s promotional plan for 2013.
But I do think at a strategic level it's important for investors to remember our strategy is to maximize income.
You’ve seen the numbers in the release.
In the smokeable segment we’ve got revenue net of excise up 3.6% for the fourth quarter and overall the Marlboro brand is heading in the right direction.
We have the Marlboro architecture started but remember big brands like Marlboro we don’t do everything in one-year.
We've been clear I think about saying that we’re going to invest in Marlboro appropriately throughout 2012 and 2013.
But I think that's just more of executing against that consistent strategy and some years as we say we invest a bit more some years a bit less some years the shares go up a bit more it comes down a little bit.
But it’s consistent with that long term strategy of trying to maximize income.
I think that’s the way to understand it.
Marty with respect to the total U.S.
cigarette category dynamic you mentioned volumes for the full year or consumption got about 3% with almost no net price increase to consumer.
Is that the kind of secular volume decline you would have expected and that you envision going forward? Well I don’t know about going forward because it’s awfully hard to predict the future.
But I think that we’ve seen the estimates of the secular decline rate being in the neighborhood of 2% to 3% for some period now and that’s probably in the right neighborhood.
And then lastly Marty you would be surprised if the FDA doesn't release its report on menthol by when.
I’d try not to be surprised by regulatory action.
I just don’t think we now – I mean they have had it for some time as you know and our understanding remains I think the last time we spoke about this which is they have sent it out for period review on the science.
We led to understand that they probably have it back and are looking at it and we would expect that would be the first action that they would take would be to publish their position on the science on menthol.
As you know they have had it for quite some time.
So would you expect something in 2013? I suppose so we just don't have a lot of line of sight into that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Just looking at the CapEx your guidance is sort of roughly flat to up for ’13 and it looks like this ’12 was ahead of last year as well.
What’s driving some of that increase? This is Howard.
I don’t think there is any single big item.
As you will note our CapEx runs at a relatively low level for a company our size.
I think that’s driven by the declining cigarette business.
But our direction to our operating companies is they ought to spend the appropriate amount of money to keep the infrastructure appropriately ready to manufacture our products and execute our programs.
So I think it really is more driven by the addition of a number of relatively modest sized projects across the business.
And then just as you look at e-cigarette segment it’s clearly got some strong growth at least in recent times especially how do you view that is it an opportunity to get involved in a threat something that you sort of dismiss what’s your thinking? I mean obviously haven’t heard any announcement yet but do you have plans to participate in that somehow? Well what I would say about e-cigarettes Michael is that we’re monitoring it carefully.
It’s obviously a development that has resulted in high awareness among adult smokers and everyone else the best I can tell.
There is some trial but it’s still a relatively new phenomenon and you are right to point out that it does grow off of a relatively low base.
The FDA has said as you know that it intends to regulate e-cigarettes.
So we’re monitoring all of that very carefully.
And then lastly just looking at share repurchases you mentioned that you had $57 million remaining in this authorization.
But you’ve said you would expect to complete that by the end of 2Q which would be a sharp slowdown you did $360 million in 1H ’12.
If you use that how quickly could you get a new authorization or do you think it will run its latest 2Q before you have another one? Yeah.
I think it’s hard to project exactly when we will finish that authorization but certainly we will have it complete by the end of the second quarter.
I think you pointed out I think rightly so that we had fairly heavy purchases in the fourth quarter and we’re only $57 million left.
There is not a lot of share repurchase needed to complete that.
But at this point the only authorization that we have out is that authorization is scheduled at the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks for coming on the call Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Judy.
Marty just a general kind of a macro comment I know in the press release you’ve talked about and then also in your prepared comment some of the cautions that you pointed to at the expiration of the tax holiday et cetera.
I know you sort of start the year with the similar caution in the past but is there anything that you’re seeing in the market place that gives you a bit more caution at this point particularly with the tax holiday being expired.
No.
We haven’t seen any evidence of that but we’re just -- we're reminded almost everyday right about how complex the macro environment is.
It looks like on some days the things are starting to turn in the right direction say housing starts through the like which is important.
And then you get a big drop in consumer confidence or you see a kind of a tepid prediction on GDP.
I think that's part of it.
I think the other part of it is excise taxes.
We’re always careful at the beginning of the year with respect to state excise taxes state budgets remain in difficult circumstances.
Nothing’s happened yet but you’ve seen already a number of states proposing -- and proposing is one thing and getting them is another but they’re proposing fairly significant excise tax increases.
And given that the FETs have been relatively restrained the last couple of years.
We would expect that there would be an uptick in activity there.
So to answer your question directly is not that we see anything in the market that gives us that any cause for alarm.
We’re just trying to be careful as we read the macro environment.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And then just going back to the Marlboro brand architecture so heading into sort of the second year of that program.
Can you elaborate on sort of your success with some of the line expansions certainly the Black and then now with NXT.
How are each of those brands kind of tracking versus your expectation.
What is some of the other innovations of line expansion that we should look forward to in 2013 and then just in terms of the level of investment behind the brand equity program as well as some of the retail program.
How do you sort of gauge whether the spending level is sort of at the right level if there is a need to continue to step up that spending? Okay.
There is a lot in your question there.
Let me see if I could take sort of pieces of it at a time.
If you look back at ‘12 at the accomplishments of the Marlboro architecture I think they are actually quite significant and we pointed out that when we talk about building up the Marlboro architecture it consists of multiple elements right.
It's focusing on all of the elements of the value equation that we used to manage that terrific brand.
So what have we done in packaging you see what we’ve done with Marlboro 83s which is really a nice expansion into some more modern and classic packaging for that brand to bring news to Red.
So our product expansions in Marlboro-Black which has been a terrific contribution to the family while we don't report out at this sub-segment level on growth.
As you know I can tell you that we’re very pleased with how Marlboro-Black has done.
And it certainly contributed I think to the overall Marlboro equity.
But we saw Marlboro NXT you see all this innovation in Marlboro space and that's good for the brand.
And we think of building up the Marlboro architecture sort of less as a program if you will then what good stewards of tradition -- of wonderful brands like Marlboro are supposed to do that.
They manage the brand over time.
They keep it refresh they keep it relevant to its target audience and that's how we've been working on it.
So you see I’ve already mentioned retail you see product introductions you see packaging changes.
I think that's the way to try to understand how we’re thinking about Marlboro.
It's a big brand.
It has a big franchise and our four product families I think are working hard to try to understand their consumer set carefully and bring to the market what that consumer wants.
So we don’t announce in advance when we’re ready to announce what we’re going to do in 2013.
But you're probably aware of Southern Cut which has been launched already in January.
So there's a lot of innovation in Marlboro but we do this in a discipline way because all of that that I have described sits under the strategy of trying to maximize income in that segment.
We’ll make true that the brand does well.
So it’s a balance.
That’s why we get paid to balance and that’s what we’re trying to do throughout 2013.
But I think that PM USA did an excellent job of that in 2012 as you see in the results.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for the question.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Bonnie.
Hi.
I guess my first question is on retails and what are your thoughts on retailer cigarette margins being squeezed over the past year.
How do you strike the right balance between growing your own profitability and then maintaining a mutually beneficial relationship with your retail partners? And also how do you ensure that retailers continue to emphasize important cigarette category and prevent them from shifting resources to other categories either within tobacco or other categories outside of tobacco maybe such as food service.
Okay.
Well thanks for that question.
Our approach to retail has really been the same for some time which is we want to have a terrific relationship that’s mutually beneficial for both us and them.
We work really hard at multiple levels to do that and we do that programmatically.
And so you see that we have programs like MLP in Marlboro [Flakes] and the like.
And we try to have a range of options so retailers can decide which programs if any they want to participate in with us.
We try to make it attractive for them to do so.
Retailers for their part of course the cigarette and the tobacco categories a big part of their traffic a big part of their revenue stream and we try to work with them very carefully.
We do that to our very talented salespeople who had very good market data to help them almost down to a store basis but our job isn’t to tell them what to do or to prevent them from doing something else just to try to align their interests with ours.
So that as we go to market that's a robust trade channel.
I think overall -- overall I think our retailers would tell you we do I think a pretty good job of that and we also meet with retailers regularly Judy both at the executive level and all the way down to the store level to get feedback from them about how we’re doing.
Our hope is that we’re really the category leader for them in terms of solutions.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then I had another question on kind of circling back on some of the earlier questions regarding promotions.
And I guess I’m aware that your promotions on certain line that Marlboro has decreased this month and then in February.
So I guess this leads me to believe that volume impact has been minimal on Marlboro.
And I just want to make sure this is the right way to think about this and maybe you could touch on other levers you have to pull to improve your net price realization next year.
And I definitely would like to clarify or verify that this is in fact a priority for you in 2013.
Well I think I would say what I’ve said before on this topic which is when you're trying to maximize income there are a number of ways one can do that.
Certainly pricing has been important in the category.
It has been it’s likely to be.
It’s certainly something we look at very carefully.
You saw PM USA took two price increases last year.
You’ve already pointed out that you’ve seen some of the promotions moderate over time.
So PM USA is very attentive to keeping an eye on the pricing element but it's not the only one.
You can expand your margins as you’ve seen them expand through effective cost management and Howard’s already described where we are in our current cost programs.
We try to be efficient in going to the market.
So we keep a good eye there we have very good margins there.
We’ve expanded them throughout 2012 and we’re mindful of that as we head into 2013.
And then just my final question is on innovation in your portfolio and understanding your strategy regarding innovation and in light of the lack of progress with substantially equivalent application approvals.
So I guess I would like to know if your innovation will be as robust as last year if approvals don’t happen for a while and maybe you could update us on the status of that please.
Sure.
Well we continue to engage with the agency on our substantial equivalence application and I think we have good dialogue with them back and forth as they work through that.
You probably know Bonnie there is something in the order of 4000 applications that came in March two years ago but they are coming up on the two-year anniversary of that batch of filings.
And so I think you expect for them to start working through those at some point in time.
With respect to our pipeline we were pretty thoughtful I think about trying to get ready for the new regulatory environment and you saw actually in 2012 that we've been able to keep a pretty robust pipeline of products and other offerings to our consumers.
We do that in compliance with all the rules that are in place.
We would expect to continue to do that.
So it’s awfully hard to predict right because we don't see into the agency I know you don't and I don't.
But I would expect for them to start moving things along.
Your next question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Can you share your view around the potential for additional liability management exercises perhaps targeting your longer dated maturities that didn’t get tackled the last time? And then secondly how do you think about the timing of prefinancing your upcoming maturities given the current market backdrop? Sure this is Howard.
I think as everybody is aware we did do a tender for some debt last year and one of the drivers of that was we were mindful of the fact that we had some high maturity towers in 2018 and 2019.
Additionally it provided us with some ongoing interest savings when we reissued debt at a lower interest rate.
I think we’re pretty comfortable with our maturity towers right now.
And I think as we look at both the debt issuance and any kind of tender or refinancing activity I think we look at it in the context of a much broader analysis how to effectively use our cash.
And I think as you know 80% of our underlying EPS go out in the form of dividends and then each year I think we make a decision as to what the most effective use of that remaining cash is and I think we are going to remain flexible as to how we use that cash going forward.
And then any comments on how you think the runway ahead of the maturity if you are thinking about refinancings you like to have three to six months cushion or sequentially even do something afterwards given the flexibility from commercial paper uses? Yeah obviously when we are looking at issuing debt we do quite a detailed analysis.
I don’t know that we have kind of a hard and fast rule like you may be suggesting there but it’s something we analyze quite carefully.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
I was hoping that we could talk a little bit more about Marlboro and specifically on the share gains that you posted if you could give any color on the contribution from new product introductions to the share gains that you have seen in 2012 as well if you could offer some color on some of the consumer demographics as you have done the work on that are you gaining outside share with smokers of 18 to 30 or anything like that? We do look at those of course but those are competitively sensitive details that we don’t discuss in these kinds of settings.
But I can tell you Vivien overall we’re really happy with those product introductions and what they brought to the brand.
They brought innovation to the brand they brought great packaging to the brand.
We like the contribution that they're making to the overall equity of the brand.
And as you might expect our brand teams monitor all of that activity carefully and I think overall we’re very pleased with that.
We just don’t break it out at this level for these purposes I am sorry.
That’s fair.
In terms of your guidance for 2013 you’re coming off of a big year in terms of the contribution that you got from SABMiller certainly that’s really been a good contributor to your earnings growth.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of what your expectations are and how you are thinking about the balance between other non-operating items like that and then your reported operating income growth for your segment? Well I will start and Howard may want to say a word on this.
We always start with the operating performance of our companies.
This is as you heard in my remarks that that's why we were able to grow the way we were in 2012 which was our operating companies had terrific business performance.
And so we always start with that and they have robust plans for ’13.
And now that said we do have other levers that we can use to try to balance the overall equation but I think it’s important to understand that we always start with the operating performance of our tobacco companies and our wine companies because that’s the core of our business.
Howard do you want to say more on that? Sure I would just add – the comment on SABMiller I think you pointed out why we saw that SABMiller’s had a strong performance last year and has had quite a run of strong performances over the years.
And so when we put together our guidance we certainly factored in an estimate for SABMiller and we have a fair amount of insight into that because of our broad participation.
But certainly we have a much deeper assessment of the operating plans for the businesses that we operate.
But we continue to expect SABMiller to be a nice contributor going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
I don’t know if you’d comment on the elasticity model and how it has performed or how it compares to historical measures following the price increase taken in December.
And I guess elasticity for the premium segments the Marlboro brand architecture buildouts and the discount segments can you comment at all on that? Well I can comment generally on elasticity and over time it hasn’t changed very much with respect to cigarettes negative 0.3 we’ve seen that really for quite some time now and we don’t see any change in that.
We haven’t seen any change actually in a while we certainly don’t see any change in it now.
And then just want to be clear as you think about the Marlboro franchise and your MST business are there still white bakers (ph) opportunities whether it’s packaging or blends or mixes to roll out new products just in general not specifics.
That’s what the brand teams are doing every day.
They are trying to study their consumer set trying to figure out where there is opportunity and try to develop products for adult customers that we could take to them sure.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Hey thanks.
Guys sorry for the basic question of advance.
But I guess following up on the elasticity question can you just talk about I guess how you gagged the long-term capacity of U.S.
consumer due to endure higher cigarette prices? I hear you that the point there hasn’t changed in a while but I mean surely you guys must spent some time thinking about at what price levels that might change right.
So I’m just curios how you sort of think about that framework? I think it’s -- I don’t know how to predict that in the future other than to be informed by what we've seen in the past.
There has been a lot of history with respect to what the prices have been in the industry over time.
And that elasticity has remained pretty durable.
I guess another way of looking at it Chris is that if you look at the pricing in the U.S.
domestic markets the other markets of course you would see that it probably has a pretty long runway in front of it.
But nobody knows that I think until you get there and we are not there yet.
And I guess just bringing it more to the short-term I mean do you guys think that at current levels you could sort of maintain or drive modest share momentum without pricing below the industry average in the cigarette category? Well I’ll go back to the comments I made before which is it is always tempting I think to kind of break these things out into single constituent elements and it just doesn't work that way.
There's always the dynamic between wanting to increase income which is what our strategy is while trying to maintain share.
And that's the balance that you have to assess based on a lot of factors at any one point in time.
It depends on what the economy is doing.
It depends on consumer confidence.
It depends on other factors that we pointed out I think previously.
So the way we think about it is we try to be thoughtful about that as we run our business each year and we pay close attention to it but to make a general statement about that is awfully hard to do.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Burritt with Bloomberg News.
Hey thank you for your time.
Good morning.
I was going to ask the release mentions a headcount reduction and was wondering if you could discuss the number of jobs cut last year and whether there maybe further cuts this year? Well I can certainly talk about the program that we had in place which was I think we all described it if I’m not mistaken.
I think the results are in our public filings.
We have to watch our headcount like every business does but particularly in our category because cigarette volumes declined.
We prefer to manage that over time and we work really hard to do that over time by maintaining our headcount through attrition if at all possible.
There have been programs in the past.
No one can never say that there won’t be one in the future.
But that’s not our current intention.
We are trying to manage our headcount over time and we hope that we are going to be able to do that.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
We appreciate your interest in Altria.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us on Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Altria's Management and a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
I am joined this morning by Marty Barrington Altria's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Howard Willard Altria's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria's 2013 business results for the first quarter and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I'll direct your attention to the forward looking and cautionary statements section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria's business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings press release and are available on our website in addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior-year period unless otherwise stated.
As previously announced effective January 1 2013 Altria's reportable segments are smokable products smokeless products and wine.
In connection with this revision results of the financial services business and the alternative products business are combined in an all other category.
Prior period segment data have been recast to conform to the current period segment presentation.
It gives me great pleasure to introduce Marty Barrington.
Thanks Brendan.
Good morning everyone.
Altria's diverse business model delivered strong financial results for the first quarter as the company increased its adjusted diluted earnings per share by 10.2%.
Higher pricing contributed to adjusted operating companies income and margin growth in all 3 of our reportable segments.
Higher earnings from our equity investment in SABMiller and lower interest expense also drove adjusted EPS growth.
In the smokeable products segment PM USA grew adjusted operating companies income and margins while increasing retail share for both Marlboro and PM USA.
PM USA continued to support Marlboro's new brand architecture with brand-building activities that contributed to Marlboro's retail share gains for the first quarter.
Earlier this year PM USA expanded distribution of Marlboro's Southern Cut nationally.
Marlboro's Southern Cut part of the Marlboro Gold family has a uniquely rich and smooth flavor.
Each of Marlboro's product families has exciting activities planned for the year to enhance the brand's strength.
Earlier this month PM USA received a $483 million credit against its master settlement agreement payment to the states as a result of the settlement of NPM adjustment disputes with certain states.
The credit increased the smokeable products segment's reported operating companies income but we excluded it from adjusted operating companies income.
Middleton's volume and retail share of large machine-made cigars decreased for the first quarter.
The quarter was marked by heightened competitive activity including high levels of low-priced imported machine-made cigars.
In the smokeless products segment USSTC and PM USA increased adjusted operating companies income and margins while growing Copenhagen and Skoal's combined retail share and volume.
USSTC is supporting both Copenhagen and Skoal with equity building initiatives.
In the first quarter USSTC expanded Copenhagen's Southern Blend into additional states.
In February Skoal began to refresh its packaging to better reflect the brand's contemporary premium qualities and differentiate its product offerings.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle delivered strong operating companies income and margin growth by expanding distribution of its premium wines.
As we've explained in the past our tobacco operating companies remain very focused on understanding the evolving preferences of adult tobacco consumers and creating superior new products for them and our 4 tobacco businesses: PM USA USSTC and Middleton are making disciplined investments in innovation to expand the reach of their premium products to segments in which they are underrepresented.
We applied the same disciplined approach to developing innovative tobacco products for adult consumers who are interested in alternatives to traditional tobacco products.
Today we're pleased to announce another step in our efforts to address these changing preferences.
In the second half of this year Altria's subsidiary Nu Mark plans to introduce an electronic cigarette into elite market.
As you know awareness and trial of e-cigarettes have increased over the last year a subject to which we have been devoting attention and product development resources.
We believe that Nu Mark should now enter the eBay per category and we expect to provide more detail on these plans at our Investor Day in June.
Altria remains focused on cost management.
Our current cost reduction program remains on track and is expected to deliver $400 million in annualized savings versus previously planned spending by the end of 2013.
During the first quarter Altria paid $886 million in dividends and purchased shares valued at $57 million.
We're also pleased to share with you today that our Board of Directors has authorized a new $300 million share repurchase program that we expect to complete by the end of 2013.
We're pleased with Altria's results for the first quarter.
Altria reaffirms that it expects its 2013 full year adjusted diluted earnings per share to increased by 6% to 9% to a range of $2.35 to $2.41 from an adjusted diluted base of $2.21 per share in 2012.
Howard will now discuss Altria's business result in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
In the smokeable products segment first quarter reported operating companies income increased 33.4% largely due to PM USA's settlement of the NPM adjustment disputes with certain states and higher pricing partially offset by lower reported shipment volume.
Excluding special items first quarter adjusted operating companies income for the smokeable products segment increased by 1.3% to $1.4 billion.
Adjusted operating companies income margins increased 0.9 percentage points to 41.9%.
PM USA's reported cigarette shipments decreased 5.2% for the first quarter primarily due to the industry's rate of decline and one less shipping day partially offset by retail share gains and changes in trade inventories.
PM USA believes that the trade depleted less inventory during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012.
When adjusted for 1 less shipping day in trade inventories PM USA estimates that its cigarette volume was down approximately 4% for the first quarter of 2013 compared to the prior-year period.
PM USA estimates that the total cigarette categories adjusted volume declined approximately 4.5% in the first quarter.
PM USA's first quarter retail share increased 0.5 share points versus the prior year as measured by its new tracking service.
Marlboro grew its retail share by 0.2 percentage points and L&amp;M drove a 0.5 percentage points share gain in discount for the first quarter.
These gains were partially offset by a 0.2 percentage point share loss on other premium brands.
Cigar shipment volume decreased 16.8% for the first quarter primarily due to retail share losses and changes in wholesale inventories.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share as measured by its new tracking service decreased 3.1 share points primarily due to heightened competitive activity including high levels of low-priced imported machined-made large cigars.
Turning to smokeless products.
Reported operating companies income for this segment increased 15.6% to $222 million for the first quarter due primarily to restructuring charges in the first quarter of 2012 related to the cost-reduction program and higher pricing in volume.
These factors were partially offset by higher promotional investments and unfavorable mix due to growth in products introduced in recent years at a lower popular price.
Adjusted operating companies income increased 5.2% to $222 million.
USSTC and PM USA's combined reported smokeless products shipment volume increased 3.4% in the first quarter.
Strong volume gains for Copenhagen were partially offset by declines for other portfolio brands.
USSTC grew Copenhagen and Skoal's combined volume by 4.9%.
USSTC and PM USA estimate that the smokeless products category grew by approximately 5% over the 12 months ended March 31 2013.
Adjusted smokeless products volume is difficult to estimate on a quarterly basis.
However after adjusting for changes in trade inventories in year-over-year calendar differences USSTC and PM USA estimate that their combined 2013 first quarter adjusted smokeless products shipment volume grew to rates slightly below the 12-month category growth rate.
USSTC and PM USA's combined first quarter retail share of the smokeless products category decreased 0.4 share points as measured by the new smokeless tracking service.
Copenhagen and Skoal grew their combined retail share by 0.5 share points.
Retail share for other brands decreased 0.9 share points.
Copenhagen grew its retail share by 1.3 share points as products introduced by Copenhagen in recent years continued to have a positive impact on the brand's retail share.
Skoal's retail share declined 0.8 share points as the brand was negatively impacted by competitive activity and Copenhagen's strong performance partially offset by share gains for Skoal X-tra.
Ste.
Michelle's reported and adjusted operating companies income of $20 million was up 33% for the first quarter driven primarily by higher shipment volume and higher pricing.
Ste.
Michelle's reported shipment volume increased 9.5% for the first quarter driven primarily by the growth of certain premium brands and the timing of the Easter holiday.
Marty and I will now be happy to take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let us cover a few housekeeping items.
Keep in mind that the tobacco product pricing and retail share figures are from the new tracking services.
We'll also provide you with restated figures from the first quarter of 2012 so you will be able to compare the periods.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 34% in the first quarter of 2013.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarettes was 35% in the first quarter of 2012.
Marlboro's net pack price in the first quarter of 2013 was $5.79 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.32.
In the first quarter of 2012 Marlboro's net pack price was $5.71 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.24.
The cigarette discount categories retail share was 25.5% for the first quarter of 2013 unchanged versus the first quarter of 2012.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the first quarter was $1.42 per pack up $0.01 versus the fourth quarter and up $0.05 versus the first quarter of last year.
Copenhagen's first quarter retail price was $4.07 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 37% in the first quarter of 2013.
In the first quarter of 2012 Copenhagen's retail price was $4.07 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 42%.
CapEx was $15 million for the first quarter and we estimate capital expenditures for the full year will be in the range of $125 million to $150 million.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $54 million for the first quarter and we estimate depreciation and amortization will be approximately $215 million for the full year.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first good comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First so just in terms of the industry consumption decline in the quarter so I think your competitors have commented on some of the factors that may have caused a little bit of a softness in terms of the industry volume.
So if you could just comment on what you think is kind of driving a bit of a moderation in terms of the overall cigarette industry shipments.
Yes thanks for the question.
I guess I'd begin by observing Judy that this is best seen over time.
I think to take one quarter's worth of data and to try to extrapolate too much is probably a bit dangerous.
If you look over time you'll see that the cigarette decline rate has been about 3% to 4%.
Our estimate on an adjusted basis for the quarter is about 4.5% although PM USA was less than that at about 4% and we saw in 2012 it was about 3%.
When you look at it we don't see any big drivers in the first quarter that would argue for a sustained kind of acceleration in the volume decline.
I mean folks have pointed out various factors in quarter: the end of the payroll tax holiday summary [ph] for the gasoline prices and other factors.
So I think we'll have to see is the answer but again we're informed I think generally by the fact that the historical decline rate has been in that 3% to 4% zone.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of your decision to launch your own e-cigarette brand in the second half I know we will get more details at your meeting.
But just in terms of kind of why now are you more comfortable with the potential regulatory environment for e-cigarettes? Do you think that the category is starting to have a bit more of an impact on the cigarette consumption? Or do you think that you've got kind of the product that you're really ready to go in with a differentiated positioning just kind of rationale for why now? Sure I mean we've observed previously that we were monitoring the category carefully of course.
It's obviously are relevant to consumers that we know quite a lot about.
We have devoted significant product development work to it and we think that for all those factors the reason that we're announcing that will be out in the second half is we have a product and we have plans that I think will allow us to compete effectively in this area that's emerging.
It's small of course relative to traditional tobacco products but there's no denying that adult tobacco consumers have shown some interest in it.
And so for us at Altria that's spot-on our mission.
We're about providing adult tobacco and wine consumers superior branded products and that's our intention here and we'll learn our way in smartly.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just lastly on pricing so if we look that smokable your pricing was up pretty nicely both kind of year-over-year and sequentially.
So maybe if you could talk about kind of your promotional activity in the first quarter versus the year ago or the fourth quarter.
And then is there any impact in terms of the cigarette -- sorry the cigar either pricing or the volume decline that's causing the smokable pricing to be up more? Or is this really consistent with more of the cigarette pricing? Yes I mean if you look at smokable if you look at net effective pricing actually was quite nice.
It was in call it I don't know 4.5% give or take but we had a significant volume decline year-over-year for the reasons that you've asked about and pointed out and others have pointed out.
So basically it's driven by the volume.
The cigar numbers if you look at cigar shipments obviously year-over-year they were distorted a bit by trade inventory factors and we've got pretty highly competitive dynamic in the cigar space with people with bringing in kind of low-priced offshore-made product.
In terms of the cigarette competitive space I would say it's pretty much in line with what we've seen before.
It's competitive out there but it's been competitive for some time.
We didn't see any particular change in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First let me ask you about your cigarette promotional activity during the quarter.
Was that recalibrated at all because of the weaker volumes? No I think in line with I just said that there -- our plans as you know in the smokable segment we're trying to maximize income while making sure that we're getting modest share momentum on Marlboro and I think that's what you see play out in the quarter.
If you look at Marlboro's share growth year-over-year it's about 2/10 and so I think we stuck pretty much to our plan which is what we intend to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on e-cigarettes I think it's sort of a philosophical question.
It's certainly legal to advertise those products much more broadly than other tobacco products or tobacco-deprived products including television and some of the leading brands in that category are on TV.
Is that something in the current regulatory environment you'd be willing to do? We're looking at all of that now is the honest answer David.
That's why we'll have more on that in June.
Our intention is to do this to do it responsibly.
And of course as you well know and everyone else who follows us knows a lot of that will be defined by what the FDA has to say about how they intend to regulate these products.
So our intention is to compete and to compete effectively.
We'll work through all of those particulars [Audio Gap] [Technical Difficulty] David I apologize for that.
We had a technical difficulty that apparently caused the line to dropout.
Apologies to everyone.
Research Division</strong> No no.
No problem.
I hope it wasn't something I said.
No.
I was just about to say to you it was nothing you said at all.
I'm not quite sure where we're dropped.
So let me know what you heard and I'll try to pick back up without repeating unduly.
Research Division</strong> No no let me go on to a different question.
I was able to hear your response with respect to e-cigarettes.
The only other thing I wanted to ask was about your management of the -- your product mix within the smokeless tobacco business.
Both this quarter and really all of last year revenue growth's been pretty much in line with volume growth.
You've taken list price increases but the mix within the portfolio has really offset the net pricing and I'm wondering is that what you envisioned and hoped for? Or can you do a little bit better? Is that -- are you overdoing some of the price positioning of your line extensions? Or is that just a function of the competitive reality in that market? Yes I wouldn't be too concerned about that.
If you look at the mix of the products in smokable they're overwhelmingly premium.
We've discussed previously having to manage a brand in the size and scale of Marlboro and having some price points for people during a tough economy so I won't repeat all of that.
But the overwhelming amount of the products in the smokeless segment are premium and that's our intention because we're trying to maximize income.
I'm sorry if I said smokeless I misspoke I meant to say smokable.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just go back on cigarette industry volume trends.
I mean I hear you loud and clear on an unadjusted basis.
It's not the end of the world they're down 4.5% but can you comment on the sequential trends that you saw intra-quarter kind of month-to-month? Well again I guess I'd go back -- I just hate to suggest that one quarter's worth of data really provide us with a lot of insight.
I can tell you Vivien that there was a slow start in the quarter and then it got stronger as we went through the quarter for the first quarter.
We obviously don't comment on intra-quarter so that's not intended to be a comment on the second quarter.
But again it's just a cautionary note about trying to read too much into one quarter's worth of data on this.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And do you guys have an estimate perhaps on potential volume impact from e-cigarette consumption in the quarter? No I think it's too small to read.
It's probably -- we know there's some interest so it's probably having some effect but it's really too small to read and extrapolate from at this time.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And lastly could you comment on your outlook for both state excise taxes and federal excise taxes? Yes.
Let's take it one at a time.
In terms of state excise taxes Howard gave you the numbers year-over-year.
We're watchful of course.
There's a fair amount of activity.
This is the peak time as you know during this period of the year when state legislatures are in.
We have some activity in Massachusetts and Minnesota.
There's been a proposal in California.
We and others are obviously doing our best advocacy to try to persuade legislatures that that's not the way to go as consumers are already very heavily taxed in this area.
But there is a fair amount of activity in the states and we'll have to see how she goes.
If we switch to the federal excise tax as you know the President raised this issue in his budget proposal.
We are strongly opposed to that.
As you know federal excise tax was raised 158% just a few years ago.
It's incredibly disruptive.
These taxes are regressive.
They're unfair.
And to the extent that programs are proposed that are for the benefit of everyone we think that there are better ways to finance them than to put it on the back of adult tobacco consumers.
So we'll see how it goes.
It's dynamic in Washington but we're hopeful that that won't come to pass and we're certainly advocating against it.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a specific number in terms of your outlook for the weighted average state excise tax increase for the full year? No we don't forecast that.
Your next question will come from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question on your decision to enter the e-cig category.
I was hoping you could give us a little more color on the process you undertook to evaluate your options for entering.
And then what other options do you consider? And then could you give us some color on any test markets you've had or focus groups you've conducted for your e-cig? You just don't want to wait for June do you Bonnie? You want me to...
LLC Research Division</strong> I don't.
I do not...
I can understand and I appreciate your interest.
Well look it always starts with the consumer and that's where we began.
Our mission as I've just mentioned a moment ago was to provide adult tobacco consumers with superior branded products.
So we wanted to make sure we understood the consumer dynamic.
And as we've discussed previously there is some interest out there.
There is some trial.
The awareness is high.
So we started by trying to understand those dynamics and to understand them well.
And of course you have to do product development to try to find products that are interesting to them that are going to have interest to them that will work in the marketplace and that's the basic process that we follow.
We have a robust center for research and development.
We have robust product development capability.
We have good insight into this consumer.
We have great brand building capability and so that's the process that we followed.
And when we have something that meets those standards we'll put it into a test or elite market to see if the consumer reacts to it the way we predict he or she will and that's what we're about to do in the second half.
So that's a bit of an overview and I know it's at a high-level but we can talk about that some more when we're ready to say more about our plans.
LLC Research Division</strong> No I understand.
That's was really helpful I appreciate it.
And then I'd love to hear your thoughts and reaction to some of the comments made recently by Mitch Zeller while he was on a panel at the NATO show specifically as it relates to 3 priorities: menthol substantial equivalence and then deeming regulation on e-cig.
And then I'd be curious to hear if you've had much dialogue recently with Mr.
Zeller.
Well we engage with the FDA regularly up-and-down the agency at the Center for Tobacco Products and that includes at the director level as well as with all of the staff and the various groups that work at our strategy has been and continues to be in full compliance with the regulations that govern our businesses as well as to engage and to try to be thoughtful and constructive about the issues that face the industry and we did that before and we'll do that again.
I wasn't particularly surprised about the topics that Mr.
Zeller referred to as being his priorities because as we all know these are the topics that have been the subject to some discussion.
The agency had said for some time that it was working on deeming.
So I'm not surprised that he will continue to work on deeming.
Substantial equivalence has been much discussed and the agency I think is working hard to try to move those along.
So I think those are the topics we would expect and we would expect to -- for Mr.
Zeller to come in and do a professional job in accordance with the statute as did his predecessor.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then my final question is on your Marlboro Special Blend.
I was hoping you could talk further about your progress you've made to narrow the relative price gap between your Special Blend line and then regular Marlboros.
And as you're lowering promos on MSB what has been the consumer reaction and then the retention? Well we won't break it out at that level of detail but I would remind everyone what our strategy is here.
Overall for the smokable segment because we're trying to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro we've deployed Special Blends for the purpose of making sure we have a price point for some price-sensitive consumers in the franchise.
They want to be in the Marlboro franchise.
They like Marlboro but the consumer macro economy has been hard on them.
So we want to make sure that we have a place for them.
You correctly referred to our strategy of -- I'll begin I guess with list price reminding everyone that Marlboro sells for the same list price everywhere and then we have different promotional platforms within the franchise and we reduced the promotions for Special Blend over time as we've been able to do that.
So overall I think we're pretty happy with how that's come together.
You see continued margin growth in the smokable segment.
So all in all we're pretty happy with that.
I think we've also discussed previously if and when the economy really begins to improve and get some traction and adult tobacco customers are feeling better and we have higher consumer confidence those promotional platforms can be further modified.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
The first one and forgive me if I missed this but just in -- and there were some questions around promotional spending.
I'm just curious sequentially in the cigarette business if your -- if you could talk about promotional spending.
Does that actually tick down in Q1 from Q4? I think I'll refer to what I've said before Chris which is in terms of the competitive environment in the smokable segment it's about kind of where we've been.
It's competitive out there.
It's been competitive and our plans take all that into account.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I was also curious on a year-over-year comparison basis.
You had a lot of new product activity in the year-ago period and heightened promotional levels.
Is that at all a factor in your volume performance in the first quarter especially with Marlboro Black launching a year ago at this time? No.
I don't think that's the way to see it.
It looks to us like it's the industry volume performance and again you can see that PM USA actually performed better on an adjusted basis against that volume than did the industry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask one more and -- just there was a recent update by the FDA the congress on -- and had some mentions and obviously discussions of modified risk tobacco products.
Is that something that -- obviously it's an opportunity for the industry.
There's been no applications for an MRTP.
Do you have any plans or anything you could speak about in that regard or any update on modified risk tobacco products and how PM USA or other businesses may foresee that? I could certainly comment on why we supported the FDA which included this protocol to get modified risk tobacco products approved and we've advocated to the agency as we have for some time now.
And you can see these papers on altria.com that we believe that's an important policy issue for FDA.
We believe that the role of manufacturers like ourselves are to try to develop these products to make the case about why they should be considered for modified risk if the science and evidence supports it.
And it's the agency's role to consider those applications and then communicate accurately to consumers if the case is made.
And we're actually pleased that there's all this activity at FDA.
It's an important component of its mission to regulate tobacco products so we support that.
Your next question comes from the line of Philippe Buson [ph] at Mitsubishi Securities.
2 questions if I may.
The first one you have about $1.4 billion in debt coming due on November.
I'm going to assume that you will refinance that.
Given the current rate environment might you also be taking advantage to refinance some of your higher coupon debt? Or the premium at which those bond rate is just too high that you're not willing to take the hit on the P&amp;L? Yes I'd rather not talk about our future plans for that debt.
Certainly when you look at our historical pattern in some cases we've -- when our debt is matured we've issued new debt and we did do a tender refinancing last year.
But I'm not in the position to share kind of what our plans are through the end of this year.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on Bonnie's question with regard to e-cigarettes.
As you know one of your competitors yesterday kind of estimated that the impact of e-cigarettes on volumes for cigarettes may have been somewhere around 1%.
I understand it's very early on.
It's a small category.
But more holistically my question is the way that you see the category potentially evolve over time what do you see the margin potential to be? And how do you make sure that you're going to protect the profit pool from the traditional cigarettes as there could be more cannibalization down the road? Yes I understand your question.
It's just so early to make any predictions about that.
I don't think I'd be giving you any help.
I have replied in response to a question a bit earlier about -- it's very hard to even understand at these small numbers the volume impact or not.
So to be predicting about future rates and margins and cannibalization is just a bit ahead of where we are.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your share repurchase pacing you've had comfortably over $1 billion each of the last couple of years and now you've got $300 million authorization for this year plus a little bit from Q1.
With the NPM cash coming in what -- it seems like you'd be in a position to certainly do more comfortably.
Is there other strategic priorities that might be on your radar instead? Or how are you thinking about the capital allocation? Sure.
I think as you pointed out we've done over $2 billion since 2011.
And certainly we feel good about the new $300 million program.
I think to start off with how we thought about this year obviously the primary way we return cash to shareholders is through dividends and the dividend was increased last August.
And I think each year we look at kind of our various cash needs and decide what the appropriate amount of share repurchase is.
And I think at this point we feel comfortable with the $300 million but certainly we'll keep an eye on that as the year evolves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just looking at e-cigarettes does today's announcement imply or suggest that you wouldn't do -- that you're only moving organically? Or would you still consider an acquisition in that space as well? Well our announcement today is that we have developed a product that we intend to launch in the second half and we don't comment on acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Well okay fair enough.
And then just -- I realize you'll obviously give us a lot better detailing in June but is that something you would consider using the Marlboro brand for? Or would it be a separate brand that you'd go to market with? I know it's tempting Michael.
I'm just going to ask everybody to hold on until we roll out our plans.
Good try.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to switch to cigars.
I wonder if you could comment a little bit about your strategy for the cigar business.
Is there a need for innovation repositioning the brand? Can you comment on the loss at retail? Can you just give us an update on cigars? Yes it's pretty competitive out there in the cigars space.
You have our strategy which is we're trying to -- just as we are with cigarettes we're trying to maximize income there.
We have as you know Ann a large percentage of the tipped segment there and the profitability there remains pretty good.
It's in the cigarillo space where we're seeing lots of competition with low-priced entries some of which is being facilitated by these imports that Harry and I mentioned in our remarks.
And so we would like to have greater exposure in the cigarillo space but we're also mindful of trying to maximize our profitability there and that's what the brand people are trying to work through right now.
If you've been at retail and you've seen this it's just mighty competitive on price and we're of course prefer to compete on equity.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Marty you mentioned a minute ago that if the economy improves you might consider your promotional activities.
Is there any particular number that you look at when you judge the economy? Is it unemployment? Is it consumer sentiment? Or is it more a gut feeling by management how the economy is doing? I would say it's a combination of a number of factors that we track closely.
We certainly track unemployment.
We're mindful of underemployment.
I'll remind people that the labor participation rate continues to drop which really if it were -- if the unemployment rate were corrected for that unemployment would be even higher than it's -- being what's reported.
Thilo we watch housing starts pretty carefully and that's actually a bit of an encouragement isn't it that housing starts are doing better than they were a year ago.
We've got a number of those factors that we watch.
And then of course we try to manage the brands to the gaps as best we can based on all those data.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the other question I had for you for 5 of the last 6 quarters at least in my math the retail price increase for Marlboro when you exclude the impact of state excise taxes has been below the price increase that I calculate when I look at the reported numbers that you have in your income statement.
Can you help me understand philosophically how this continues to -- this retail price underperformance continues to drag on like this? Well again I'd go back to if we start with manufacturers' pricing our pricing picked up really quite nicely.
At retail there are a number of factors that influence the average retail pack price.
Some of them are our trade programs.
Some of them are retailers strategies about how they choose to compete at the C store.
And what you've seen I think during the period that you've referenced is a number of those strategies coming to bear in the retail market.
So as you know we offer a variety of Marlboro programs MLP Flex Margin Option Orcher [ph] intended to offer retailers the opportunity to align their strategies as best they think they can with Marlboro and I think that's -- those are the dynamics you see.
Retailers have different strategies for different platforms.
Indeed for different stores our goal is to try to offer programs that give them choices to make with respect to our business.
We will now take questions from the media.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up real quick on the buyback question.
I know you said $300 million is the number and you're comfortable with it.
But can you just give a little color as to why you're comfortable with it? Because I think you recognize the question which is you had a lot of buyback you have more cash coming in and now the buyback projection's lower.
So any color you can give on why would be fantastic.
Sure.
I think I hesitate to give forecasts on what we're going to use our cash flow through throughout the rest of the year but I think it's something that we look at pretty carefully.
And certainly when you look at an 80% dividend pay out ratio most of the cash is going out on a pre-regular basis.
And I think for now we feel that the $300 million number is the right number.
Certainly there'll be greater color as to the cash usage as the year progresses.
Your final question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back on the question that Michael asked.
Can you just clarify from a regulatory standpoint is there anything that would preclude you from using an existing cigarette brand name on novel new tobacco products? Well that's a bit of a complex topic.
What I was trying to convey to Michael was as we're thinking about the product that we intend to launch in the second half Vivien that we'll have our plans rolled out as they become more final.
If -- maybe that's best handled offline.
I can get Brendan or someone to walk you through the complexities of using cigarette brands in various spaces.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Brendan McCormick for closing comments.
Thanks everyone for your interest in Altria.
If you have any additional questions please call us today at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Altria’s Management and a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I’d now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Neese Director of Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
I’m joined this morning by Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we’ll only be discussing Altria’s 2013 business results for the second quarter and first six months and will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward looking and cautionary statements section at the end of our earnings release for the review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release that is available on our website at altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
GAAP.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings release and are available on our website.
In addition comparisons discussed in this conference call are to the same prior-year period unless otherwise stated.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Altria delivered solid financial results for the second quarter and for six months of 2013.
The Company’s diverse business model delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share growth of 5.1% for the second quarter and 7.4% for the first half of the year.
All three of our reportable segments delivered adjusted operating companies income and margin growth in the second quarter and first half.
This growth was complemented by lower interest and other debt expense and fewer shares outstanding for both periods.
Lower earnings from Altria’s equity investment and SABMiller negatively impacted Altria’s second quarter adjusted diluted EPS while on a first half basis higher earnings from the investment had a positive impact.
In the smokeable product segment higher pricing drove adjusted operating companies income growth for both the second quarter and first half.
Marlboro continue to perform well.
Its retail share was unchanged for the second quarter and up one-tenth of a share point for the first half versus its strong retail share performance last year.
PM USA continues to support Marlboro’s brand architecture with brands building initiatives.
In July 2013 PM USA expanded distribution of Marlboro NXT to an additional 23 states primarily in the eastern U.S.
PM USA gain retail share for the second quarter behind share gains for L&amp;M in discount.
For the first half PM USA grew retail share due to gains from both L&amp;M and Marlboro.
Comparisons of reported cigarette shipment volume for the second quarter and first half were impacted by trade inventory changes.
After adjusting for changes in trade inventories PM USA estimates that its second quarter 2013 domestic cigarette shipment volume was down approximately 3.5% and that total cigarette category volume was down approximately 4% for the same period.
After adjusting for one less shipping day and trade inventory changes PM USA estimates that its cigarette volume declined approximately 4% for the first half in line with the estimated decline rate for the cigarette category.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share of machine made large cigars was down for the second quarter and first half versus the prior periods due to competitive activity.
On a sequential basis though the brands 2013 second quarter retail share was up 1.4 share points versus the first quarter of 2013.
In the smokeless segment higher volume and higher pricing drove strong adjusted operating companies income and margin growth for the second quarter and first half.
USSTC increased volume and retail share for Copenhagen and Skoal on a combined basis for both reporting periods.
In wine Ste.
Michelle delivered strong operating companies income and margin growth through higher shipment volume.
Altria’s companies continue to deliver growth in their core businesses while continuing to innovate with new products for adult tobacco consumers.
As we’ve announced Nu Mark will enter the eBay for category by introducing MarkTen e-cigarettes into a lead market in Indiana next month.
Nu Mark is also expanding distribution of Verve discs to approximately 1 200 stores in Virginia in September of this year.
Richmark a joint venture between an Altria subsidiary and Okono has introduced Tju Chewing Tobacco Gum into a test market in Denmark.
We’re pleased Altria’s results for the first half of the year.
Based on that performance and our expectations for the second half of the year we’re revising our guidance for Altria’s 2013 full-year adjusted diluted EPS from a range of $2.35 to $2.41 to a range of $2.36 to $2.41.
This represents a growth rate between 7% and 9% from an adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.21 in 2012.
I’ll now turn things over to Howard who will discuss Altria’s business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
In the smokeable products segment second quarter and first half reported operating companies income grew by 5.2% and 18.4% respectively primarily due to PM USA’s settlement with certain states of the NPM Adjustment Disputes for 2003 to 2012.
Higher pricing and lower selling general and administrative expenses partially offset by lower reported shipment volume.
Excluding special items identified in our earnings press release adjusted operating companies income for the smokeable products segment increased by 1.5% to $1.7 billion for the second quarter an increase by 1.4% to $3.1 billion for the first half.
Adjusted operating companies income margin grew 1.6 percentage points to 43.0% for the second quarter and 1.3 percentage points to 42.5% for the first half.
PM USA’s reported cigarette shipments declined 6.7% for the second quarter primarily due to the industry's rate of decline and changes in trade inventories partially offset by retail share gains.
PM USA believes that the trade built more inventory during the second quarter of 2012 which negatively impacted the comparisons of PM USA's second quarter 2013 reported domestic cigarette shipment volume.
Reported cigarette shipments declined 6% for the first six months of 2013 primarily due to the same factors that impacted the second quarter and one less shipping day.
PM USA increased its retail share by three-tenths of a share point to 50.7% for the second quarter and by four-tenths of a share point to 50.6% for the first half of 2013.
Marlboro's retail share for the second quarter was unchanged at 43.7% and grew one-tenth of a share point to 43.6% for the first half.
PM USA's discount share was 3.9% for both periods as share gains for L&amp;M contributed to share gains of five-tenths of a share point for both the second quarter and the first half.
These share gains were partially offset by share losses on other portfolio brands in both periods.
Cigar shipment volume decreased 8.0% for the second quarter and 12.4% for the first half primarily due to changes in wholesale inventories and retail share losses.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share decreased five-tenths of a share point for the second quarter and 1.8 share points for the first half.
Turning to the smokeless products segment second quarter 2013 reported and adjusted operating companies income increased 12.5% to $270 million versus the prior-year period driven by higher volume and pricing and lower selling general and administrative expenses partially offset by higher promotional investments and unfavorable mix due to growth in products introduced in recent years at a lower popular price.
Reported operating companies income increased 13.9% to $492 million for the first half primarily due to the same factors I just mentioned and restructuring charges in the first quarter of 2012 related to the cost reduction program.
When adjusted for special items related to restructuring charges operating companies income increased 9.1% to $492 million for the first half of 2013.
Reported smokeless product shipment volume increased 4.6% for the second quarter and 4% for the first half.
Volume growth for Copenhagen and Skoal was partially offset by volume declines for other portfolio brands.
Copenhagen and Skoal grew their combined shipment volume by 5.8% for the second quarter and 5.4% for the first half of 2013.
Copenhagen's volume grew 8.8% for the second quarter and the first half as the brand continued to benefit from products introduced in recent years.
Skoal's volume increased 1.8% for the second quarter and 0.8% for the first half.
USSTC and PM USA estimate that the smokeless products category grew by approximately 5% over the 12 months ending June 30 2013.
Adjusted smokeless products volume is difficult to estimate on a quarterly basis.
When adjusted for changes in trade inventories and year-over-year calendar differences USSTC and PM USA estimate that their combined 2013 first half adjusted smokeless product shipment volume grew at a rate similar to the 12-month category growth rate.
Copenhagen and Skoal delivered combined retail share growth of six-tenths of a share point for the second quarter and first half of 2013.
Copenhagen grew its retail share by 1.6 share points for the second quarter and 1.5 share points for the first half.
Skoal's retail share declined one share point for the second quarter and nine-tenths of a share point for the first half primarily due to competitive activity and Copenhagen's strong performance.
USSTC and PM USA's retail share of the smokeless products category was unchanged at 55% for the second quarter as retail share gains by Copenhagen were offset by losses for Skoal and other portfolio brands.
For the first half USSTC and PM USA's retail share decreased two-tenths of a share point to 55% as retail share losses for Skoal and other portfolio brands were mostly offset by Copenhagen gains.
Ste.
Michelle's 2013 operating companies income increased 13.6% to $25 million for the second quarter and increased 21.6% to $45 million for the first half of 2013.
These results were primarily driven by higher shipment volume.
Ste.
Michelle also expanded its operating companies income margins by 1 percentage point to 18.9% for the second quarter and by 1.9 percentage points to 17.8% for the first half.
Ste.
Michelle's shipment volume increased 7.7% for the second quarter and 8.6% for the first half.
In May 2013 Altria issued $1 billion of new senior unsecured notes comprised of $350 million of 2.95% notes that mature in 2023 and $650 million of 4.5% notes that mature in 2043.
During the second quarter Altria paid $833 million in dividends and purchased shares values at $135 million.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
As a reminder the tobacco product pricing and retail share figures are from the tracking services we introduced in the first quarter of 2013.
We'll also provide you with restated figures from the second quarter of 2012 so you'll be able to compare the periods.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 34% in the second quarter of 2013 and 35% in the second quarter of 2012.
Marlboro's net pack price in the second quarter of 2013 was $5.78 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.30.
For the second quarter of 2012 Marlboro's net pack price was $5.70 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.22.
The cigarette discount categories retail share was 25.2% for the second quarter of 2013 up one-tenth of a share point versus the second quarter of 2012.
The estimated weighted averaged cigarette state excise tax as of July 1 2013 was $1.45 per pack an increase of $0.04 per pack versus the second quarter of 2012.
This includes the $1.60 per pack tax increase that took effect on July 1st in Minnesota.
For the second quarter of 2013 Copenhagen's retail price was $4.04 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 36%.
For the second quarter of 2012 Copenhagen's retail price was $4.03 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 41%.
CapEx was $26 million for the second quarter and $41 million for the first half of 2013.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $52 million for the second quarter.
We estimate that 2013 full year ongoing depreciation and amortization will be approximately $215 million.
Operator do we have any questions? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Investors analysts and media representatives are now invited to participate in the question-and-answer session.
We will take questions from the investment community first.
Our first question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Research Division</strong> To start my first question has to do with the Menthol report that the FDA said that it's the OMB this morning I'm sure you guys haven't had a chance to go through it neither have we but I was hoping you could just remind us from a procedural standpoint where do we go from here and what the timing of that would look like? You're right Vivien.
I heard about the headline when I walked into the room and was focused on the call so I haven't looked at any of this.
So I don’t want to comment on it because I haven't seen it.
But you’re right from a process view point what the FDA has said so far all along was that it was reviewing the science.
It took the TPSAC report; it conducted its own scientific review.
It's our understanding they sent that out for peer review that they got peer review back and then they've been working on the scientific assessment.
So subject to what's happened this morning that’s our understanding of the process.
And of course FDA being an agency that’s driven by science and the evidence we would expect for the process then to discuss FDA scientific views before any policy implications or the like would be discussed.
We’ll have to see what issued this morning.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
In terms of the cigarette business was there a benefit to your shipments from the extended distribution of NXT or is that going to hit in the third quarter? Well we launched NXT really in July so it will be mostly in the third quarter I think.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And do you have an estimate for whether the e-cigarette category had any impact on traditional cigarette industry going this quarter and next so by what magnitude? Yeah no I really don’t – I know everyone is acutely interested in this.
I continue to believe what I’ve said previously on this which is it's having some effect obviously because people who were trying eBay for products are adult smokers so you would expect for there to be some effect.
We just can’t tease out what it is off of the small base and actually I think the question to be focused on is as much what is the size of that category today as what might it be down the road and that’s obviously a part of the motivation for us to make sure that we’ve got competitive products and why we’re so excited about our mark and launch in Indiana.
Research Division</strong> That’s fair enough.
And do you have an estimate for what the size of the category might be down the road? No we worked out various scenarios.
It all depends which put in your model and it depends what your assumptions are.
As we’ve discussed previously there is a lot that’s yet to be resolved regarding e-cigarettes.
We currently don’t have a regulatory structure for them and depending on what that regulatory structure looks like it could have an impact on the size of the category.
We don’t know yet about excise taxes for example.
We’re probably on the early part of the technology curve with the product itself.
So all of those factors Vivien I think are the way that we’re looking at it and you can run various models with various assumptions and that’s kind of how we’re looking at it to make sure that we’ve got all of them covered.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling in.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Marty just as a follow-up to that if you have three buckets of uncertainty regarding the trajectory of the e-cigarette category being regulation excise taxes and then the capacity to improve the product to meet current smokers needs.
Realistically would you agree that it's probably that third item that will have the biggest long-term impact on whether e-cigarettes are sort of a small or somewhat larger segment over time? I sure think that consumer acceptance of the product is central.
The other factors -- and there are other factors beyond what I mentioned but you’re right David you have to have a product that adult consumers find acceptable and that’s what we’re working on.
Okay on a different topic Marty given the gap between your shipments this quarter and where you think on an underlying basis both your performance in the category was the negative 3.5 negative 4.
What's your confidence in that forecast in that assessment? Yeah we’re pretty confident in our assessment I would say.
When you look at the inventory changes from Q2 '12 to Q2 '13 I mean they’re pretty apparent as I know you remember the trade bill inventory in the quarter last year versus this quarter where it was built and then really shared some of that’s probably driven by the timing.
You may remember the price announcements came at different times relative to those quarters.
So when we do the math and we look at the inventories that we’re able track we’re pretty confident that it explains the difference between reported and adjusted.
Okay and that would be consistent with your cigarette shipments in July of this year being fairly strong correct because you would have entered the quarter with lower trade inventories than last year? Well as you know we don’t talk about the quarter until the quarter is over so I won't say anything about the third quarter.
But I do think it's fair to point out as people are thinking about this which is if the adjustments are as we believe them to be.
Remember there’s one more shipping day in the third quarter and inventories really were pretty lean at the end of the second quarter.
Those were all factors I think to take into account.
Okay.
And then Marty just fair to say that sort of collectively the competitive dynamic has allowed for better pricing in the cigarette category essentially because of the weaker volumes that the competitive dynamics resulted in a business algorithm that still allowed for profit growth despite the weak volumes because in affect there was a collective effort to solve for weak volumes? I might describe that just a little bit differently.
I think the category is competitive it's been competitive it’s likely to be competitive.
Our strategy is to maximize income as you know and so we stay focused on that in this segment.
And when we look at our revenue/1000 for example net of FET we’ve got nice numbers there.
So that’s how we look at it which is we’re trying to maximize income while making sure that we’ve got modest share momentum on Marlboro.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Judy.
I guess I just wanted to go through the brand performance on the cigarette side so Marlboro kind of flat year-over-year up a little bit in the six months of the year and then you actually had a pretty good gain from L&amp;M.
So maybe just give us your perspective on the Marlboro’s performance maybe not just in the quarter but just kind of a year-to-date how do you think the brand is performing relative to kind of your spending level? And then from an L&amp;M perspective can you just talk about where the share gains are coming from and as though you think about the strategy with L&amp;M would we continue to see a pretty strong gain from L&amp;M going forward? Sure let me take those in turn.
We’re really happy with Marlboro.
I think Marlboro is doing terrific.
The investments that we’ve made in the Marlboro architecture the products that we’ve been able to bring our work at retail to get everything reset the work that we’ve done on marlboro.com our interactions with our adjust consumer franchise.
Remember we tend to sometimes go pass this but it's worth everyone remembering of course Marlboro remains with more shares than the next 10 brands combined.
It's got premium pricing.
It's got the highest brand equity.
It's the largest brand in every state and so on and so on and so Marlboro continues to perform fine.
As I just discussed with David as you know in terms of its share we try to have modest share momentum on Marlboro.
That’s one of the measures we use to make sure that its brand strength remains where we want it to be because it's largely the engine of our profit growth.
L&amp;M’s role is different of course; it plays a role in the discount segment.
The discount segment as Howard just reported to you is relatively flat but especially for some of our trade partners who like for us to have an entry in that segment; L&amp;M is a terrific choice.
We gather share from various players that are participating in that segment but our focus is on premium and in particular it's on Marlboro but L&amp;M has a role to play in the portfolio about what you’ve seen for the quarter I think it's fair to say.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the competitive environment going forward just curious with Newport Gold being launched in the back half; do you see that as a risk in terms of the competitive environment heating up and then just in terms of thinking about broadly speaking the new product pipeline for your products obviously and how much of that is still kind of dependent upon the FDA coming up with just potential equivalents applications and any lessons that you’ve learned on the heels of them approving a couple and then also rejecting several? Okay let me see if I can unpack that a little bit.
Our planning as you might expect at PM USA and other operating companies takes into account most all competitive scenarios including the one on Newport Gold that you’ve just described.
So we have plans for that and all of that is rolled up into our guidance.
So I think that we have good plans; we have a strong franchise there.
PM USA will do what it needs to do I’m sure and do it well.
In terms of new product pipeline we’ve discussed this previously I think with others about how we were pretty planful about having products as the new regulatory system came online and we continue to have a pretty good pipeline.
We had also pointed out that we have expected FDA once it had built out its infrastructure once it had hired its staff and once it had worked through the protocols on substantial equivalents we had fully expected that it would start to rule on application and indeed that's what we see happening and that's a good thing frankly.
Some people were predicting that the FDA would never approve another tobacco product or certainly not in the cigarette category and we were urging people to be mindful that the statute contemplates innovation in the category it's just a process you have to go through and FDA is a part of that process.
So I think that's on balance a good thing that FDA now has the infrastructure up and working.
They're working through applications.
To be sure there's a lot to do.
I think the latest estimate I saw and you may have seen it is in terms of provisional applications those that are already in the market there's more than 3 000 of those and then there maybe another 500 I think FDA said with respect to new products.
So they've got some work to do.
For our part we continue to work with them.
We talk to them every day about substantial equivalents and other matters and we try to do that professionally and constructively and so far so good.
Okay.
And then lastly Howard SABMiller equity income was down pretty significantly in the quarter.
If there's anything you can help us just kind of think about why it was down so much? And then I guess in terms of your guidance is it still – I guess it is a driver of how the rest of the year kind of play out.
So any help on how we should think about the back half in terms of the equity income? Sure.
Well certainly our guidance reflects what we expect to occur for all of our businesses plus our contribution from SABMiller.
SABMiller's contribution to our earnings was often in the first half but you're correct that it was down in the second half on an adjusted basis.
I would point out I think that there are a number of adjustments that we make to their financial results both to convert from IFRS to GAAP and some other things.
So probably the best way to understand their underlying earnings is to listen in on their trading statement update which will come later this week.
But I do think for the rest of the year we expect SABMiller to be a contributor to our earnings growth.
Got it thank you.
Thanks for calling Judy.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Good morning everybody.
Just wanted to follow-up on David's question for the volume adjustments that you laid out because of the inventory movement.
If I recall correctly I think last year same quarter you talked about a 1.5% tailwind.
The adjustment you talk about today seems to be much bigger than that.
Is there additional volume or inventory reductions by wholesalers on top of just offsetting what they did last year? I guess I'm not sure how to explain it other than I explained it a moment ago which is it's just the comparison I think between the build in the second quarter last year and then the build in the share in the second quarter this year when we looked at the numbers relative to what's in wholesale and our estimate at retail which seems to us that that's the explanation.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then smokeable revenue has been down for two quarters in a row now and the comps in the second half of the year are getting a little bit more challenging but what's the outlook for the segment? Do you expect growth for the full year? Well you know our strategy which is we're trying to grow income in the smokeable segment.
We do that obviously through the operating plans of PM USA and if you look at it over time I prefer back to some of the charts we showed perhaps at the Investor's Day meeting in June that the smokeable segment has really had pretty nice growth there over time and that's how we look at it Thilo.
We look at it over time.
In some quarters it's up a bit more and others in down and in others it's someplace else.
But over time that's our strategy and I must say it seems to have worked relatively well and that's the strategy that we're pursuing.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then last question I had for you.
If I recall correctly I think you had described the strategy for L&amp;M in the past as do you want to offset the share losses that you have had was basic over the last few years.
When I look at the share data for your discount portfolio it looks like those basic losses are offset by now.
What's the plan going forward for L&amp;M? Well I think the plan is what I described a moment ago which is it's got a role to play in our portfolio in the discount segment.
And so you're right.
We have described how it gathered up some share the basic share as we made that brand more profitable.
It's also gathered up some competitive share as you might expect for a great brand in that segment but that's it role and our focus again remains on the premium end of the business.
We're trying to make sure that Marlboro and other premium brands do great all the while making sure L&amp;M is effectively executing the role it has in its place in the portfolio and I don't think that's going to change going forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for asking.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
LLC</strong> Hi.
I just wanted to ask maybe another question on L&amp;M.
Just trying to understand if you see any cannibalization between L&amp;M or your discount portfolio and non-premium level line extensions? And then I'd also like to hear how you're balancing the growth of your discount segment with margin expansion how will you do that going forward? Well we're mindful of executing against the entire portfolio strategy of course as we are very very mindful of Marlboro and our other premium brands we watched to make sure that L&amp;M is playing the appropriate role but we're not trying to grow the discount segment.
Our focus is on premium.
So that's always a balance on how we manage our brands as anybody does in their portfolio and that's how we think about it.
We're a premium company.
We sell premium brands.
We get higher margin because of doing that.
That's our strategy and that's what we'll continue to do.
LLC</strong> Okay that helps.
And then Marty I would like to drill down a little further on something there Marlboro line extensions.
I'm hearing Southern Cut is performing well so I'd like to hear more color from you on this? And then a question on Marlboro NXT expansion; as you role this out to more states are you able to secure incremental shelf space or is this displacing existing shelf space for other Marlboro brands or possibly something else in your portfolio? Okay let me take those in turn.
We're happy with Marlboro Southern Cut.
It's a terrific product.
It's got – and a terrific pack.
It's been well received and I think it's been a great addition to the Marlboro family.
The same thing with Marlboro NXT.
You remember we launched that in two of our sales regions last year.
It looks great.
It's a terrific product.
It's got a nice innovation on it with a capsule.
It's been very well received.
It's a nice addition to the Marlboro Black family.
And this space the share issue has always worked out by the trade programs and our trade programs take all of that into account as we work through the available space.
But we haven't had really I wouldn't think any difficulty in getting space for Marlboro NXT.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just my final questions on e-cigs and MarkTen.
Given that tremendous success and the continued robust growth of the e-cig category how concerned are you that you don't have a greater presence with your MarkTen e-cig yet? I guess meaning have you missed an opportunity or do you feel you can essentially play catch-up? Well I think the answer to that is it's early days in the eBay per category and I think that MarkTen is a terrific product it's a great brand.
We've got a crackerjack sales force that will get us distribution where we need it.
We'll learn.
I think when we discussed this previously that's how we think about innovation generally in e-cigarettes in particular which is – it's very exciting when these new products come along and they get a lot of attention.
Our strategy is to maximize our core business while we take appropriate steps forward with innovation and that's a balance as well but we have a big profitable mature business that does great.
We have tremendous brands and so in the eBay per category we want to learn our way in.
I have no doubt that if we can get that product in the hands of consumers and get distribution and work the brand the way we've done over decades that we'll ultimately be very successful.
I think this is a long game.
LLC</strong> Right and you can leverage your existing sales force as you mentioned and you're willing to role this out quickly if your tests performs well.
Is that fair? We'll take the appropriate steps once we learn our way in.
Certainly if it's well received we always want to expand products that are well received by the consumer.
And then as we discussed a moment ago as I'm sure you heard there's some other reasons to be in which is – there's issues to be sorted through regulation and excise taxes in the like and we want to be at the table as they’re being sorted out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Bonnie.
Your next question comes from line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Hey good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi.
I just had a couple of follow-up questions for you please.
The first must be that I know you don’t like to give quarterly guidance but would you expect the profit growth in your smokeable division to be up at a rate faster than the first half growth? I guess what I’m coming down to is you’ve had very good per pack growth in the first half.
You’ve had roughly soft kind of absolute dollar profit growth in the first half however.
Well you’re right.
We don’t give quarterly guidance and we’re not about to start this morning.
I just had this conversation a moment ago about our strategy which is to maximize income and we do that over time and you’re point out at the comparisons for this quarter or the quarter previous were a bit lower on that metric than they have been over the last several years.
I think we showed during the Investor Day again the history over time of how the income growth has been nice in smokeable.
That continues to be our strategy.
We’ve just given a revised guidance stock.
Then all that is taken into account in our revised guidance.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Just two quick ones and the first one with the likelihood of an FET it looks relatively small today.
I guess at least that – there will be a higher risk factor going forward given what’s proposed at least do you have any comments on an FET the likelihood and how you see that going forward? Well we’re opposed to it and there has been talk about its relative movement or lack thereof.
We’ve spoken previously Gee-whiz; we just took an FET increase of a 158% or something in 2009.
We saw what happened to the volumes and what happened to the trade.
These are programs that are supposed to be for the benefit of everyone but they’re proposed to be financed on the back of tobacco consumers and we just think that’s fundamentally unfair to say nothing of how regressive these taxes are.
So we’re being very mindful of that.
We advocate strongly on behalf of our companies and our consumers on that.
You’d hope that there is not much traction on it if it doesn’t appear to be today but we’re very careful about that.
Okay.
And my final question is in relation to your capacity for MarkTen and for e-cigarettes.
Are you in the process still of building capacity that will make that product? I’m just thinking ahead to say a national launch is there still some period of time that you need to build capacity to be able to handle a larger launch across the country? Yeah.
You forgive me for saying some of that’s proprietary so I’m not going to talk about much of that.
We certainly have capacity to execute what we intend to execute in Indiana and to do it well.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for asking.
We now welcome questions from media representatives on the call.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Todd Duvick with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
LLC</strong> Quick question for you on the balance sheet.
You mentioned tapping the debt capital markets this past quarter and you have another $1.4 billion debt maturing in November.
Can you tell us if the issuance from this past quarter was the partially refinance that or should we expect to see you either back in the market or look to issue commercial paper to take out this November maturity? I’m not going to comment on our future debt plans.
But I think you did point out that I alluded to the $1 billion issuance in the second quarter.
I think that gives us a fair amount of flexibility with regard to what actions we take for the $1.5 billion due later this year and then we’ve got about – we’ve had about $2 billion due between now and the end of the first quarter.
And I think when we determine exactly what we were going to do there; we’ll announce it at the time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess just a follow-up question to that.
You still have a fair bit of very high coupon debt related to I think the UST acquisition in 2009.
Do you continue to look at that as to see if that’s something you might want to address or you just planning to reduce your interest expense over time? Well I think certainly our goal is to work to reduce our interest expense over time which we’ve been successful in doing.
As you know we did tender for some of our high interest debt once before and I think we continue to look at all options but we’ve made a definitive decision with regard to what we’re going to do going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Burritt with Bloomberg News.
Okay.
Good morning.
Thank you for your time.
Marty I was going to ask you if you could talk about your marketing plans for MarkTen.
Can you help explain how you plan to balance selling the product with responsibilities that come with nicotine in a product that’s not regulated that sort of thing I mean how hard will you push your new – your e-cig in this lead market and what constraints will you take? Thank you.
That’s an excellent question.
We’re working through all those details now.
Let me take it in two parts perhaps.
The first is you’re right because for products that contain nicotine you have to be responsible that how you do that.
We thought deeply about that including putting an appropriate warning on that product which it will bear despite the fact that it’s not currently regulated by FDA.
The marketing mix is another matter altogether our target audiences adult smokers and adult vapors and we want to get good reach to them.
We want them to know about the product.
We want to have good awareness to them But we’ll also take steps to make sure that we’re not having unintended reach to audiences we’re not trying to reach and that’s always a balance about how you do that.
We are working through those marketing details now and I think when you see the execution you will see that we’ve been quite comfortable with that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good question.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Milway with BlackRock.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
Do you have any sense when the arbitration panel might release their decision regarding diligent enforcement? Any day.
That’s we were told.
I mean it’s mature and it’s right.
So it could come at any time.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Russo with Gardner Russo &amp; Gardner.
Hi.
Good morning.
Question on the wine business I’m wondering just back from travels abroad and Chateau Ste.
Michelle and others of your brands have been gaining a presence in Asia.
And I’m wondering just to what extent the division is prepared to invest behind that what they see as a future there for the returns of the capital? Sure.
Tom I think your observation is accurate which is we’ve had greater volume of our key brands sold in Asia given the – given kind of the affordable premium positioning of our brands I think they’re well positioned for the Asian market and that has been an initiative that the wine company is focused on certainly over the last couple of years.
And I think we’ll continue to because certainly wine is becoming more popular amongst the middle class in China and other Asian countries.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling Tom.
(Operator Instructions) At this time we’ve no further questions.
I’d now like to turn the floor back over to Michael Neese for closing comments.
Thank you for your time today.
The IR team is available for any additional questions you may have.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group Q3 2013 earnings conference call.
(Operator instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Altria’s Q3 earnings conference call.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO and Howard Willard Altria’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we will only be discussing Altria’s business results for Q3 and first nine months of 2013 and we will not be discussing the status of tobacco litigation.
Our remarks contain forward-looking cautionary statements and projections of future results.
May I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of our earnings release for review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Time periods referencing these remarks are to the relevant 2013 period unless another year is identified.
Similarly comparisons are to the comparable year or period unless otherwise stated.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release that is available on our web site Altria.com.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings press release and are available on our web site.
Now I will turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
In the first nine months of the year Altria continued to execute against our long term objectives of delivering consistent adjusted diluted EPS growth in the range of 7% to 9% and maintaining a strong and growing dividend.
Strong Q3 results driven by contributions across our businesses helped produce adjusted diluted EPS growth of 9% for the first three quarters.
Also during Q3 we increased our dividend by 9.1% marking the 47<sup>th</sup> dividend increase in the 44 years.
Overall our businesses are on track against their full year objectives and Altria remains focused on creating long term value for shareholders.
During both the quarter and the first nine months our strategies and diverse business model continued to produce strong results.
Our tobacco operating companies grew adjusted operating companies income behind their leading premium tobacco brands and are alcohol assets also delivered income growth.
Additionally we used our capital structure to reward shareholders through share repurchases and we expanded our buyback program.
In the smokable product segment PM USA balanced income growth with shared gains in a competitive environment.
Higher pricing helped drive income growth in both the quarter and for the first nine months.
PM USA grew its total retail share in both periods and held Marlboro’s retail share flat versus its strong performance in both periods a year ago.
The Marlboro Black family continues to contribute to the brand success and later this month PM USA will expand distribution of Marlboro Edge nationally.
Marlboro Edge offers adult smokers bold smooth flavor.
In third quarter Q3 PM USA benefited from stronger shipment volume as volume declines moderated versus the previous quarters of 2013.
PM USA’s reported cigarette shipments grew 1.2% for Q3.
After adjusting for calendar differences and changes in trade inventories PM USA estimates that its Q3 domestic cigarette shipment volume was down approximately 3% less than the estimated 3.5% decline rate for the total cigarette category.
Also after adjusting for trade inventory changes PM USA estimates that both its cigarette volume and total category volume declined approximately 4% for the [technical difficulty] with a 3% to 4% category decline rate we've seen for the last couple of years.
Altria's smokeless product segment continue to perform well as higher pricing and higher volume drove strong adjusted operating Company's income growth for both the quarter and first nine months.
USSTC grew Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined volume and retail share for both reporting periods.
In addition to producing strong results in our core businesses we are developing innovative tobacco products for adult tobacco consumers.
In August Nu Mark introduced MarkTen e-vapor products into a lead market in Indiana and we're pleased with the results so far.
Further Nu Mark plan [technical difficulty] and our expectation for the rest of the year we are reaffirming Altria's guidance for 2013 full-year adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.36 to $2.41.
This represents a growth rate between 7% and 9% from an adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.21 in 2012.
I'll now turn things over to Howard who will discuss our business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
In the smokeable product segment third quarter reported operating Company's income grew by 11.5% primarily due to higher pricing from previously disclosed NPM arbitration panel decision and higher reported shipment volume.
These factors were partially offset by higher promotional investments higher resolution expense and higher selling general and administrative cost due to the timing of spending.
For the first nine months of 2013 the smokeable product segment's reported operating Company's income grew by 16% primarily due to PM USA's NPM adjustment settlement the NPM arbitration panel decision and higher pricing.
These factors were partially offset by lower reported shipment volume and higher resolution spends.
Excluding the special items identified in our earnings press release adjusted operating Company's income for the smokeable product segment grew by 3.1% to approximately $1.7 billion for the third quarter and increased by 2% to approximately $4.8 billion for the first nine months.
PM USA grew its total retail share by two-tenths of a share point to 50.7% for the third quarter and by three-tenths of a share point to 50.6% for the first nine months.
Marlboro's retail share was unchanged versus both prior year periods at 43.7% for the quarter and 43.6% for the first nine months.
PM USA's discount share was 3.9% for both periods up three-tenths of a share point for the third quarter and up five-tenths of a share point for the first nine months.
L&amp;M contributed to PM USA's discount share gains in both periods.
Cigar shipment volume increased 6% for the third quarter and decreased 6.6% for the first nine months.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share decreased 1.1 share points for the third quarter and 1.6 share points for the first nine months.
Turning to the smokeless product segment reported operating Company's income for the third quarter increased 12.6% primarily due to higher volume higher pricing and 2012 restructuring charges related to the current cost reduction program.
These factors were partially offset by higher promotional investments and higher selling general and administrative expenses.
For the first nine months of 2013 the segment's reported operating Company's income increased 13.4% primarily due to the same factors that drove growth for the quarter partially offset by higher promotional investments and unfavorable mix due to the growth in products introduced in recent years at a lower popular price.
When adjusted for the special items identified in our earnings press release the smokeless product segment's operating Company's income grew 9.1% for both periods.
For the third quarter USSTC and PM USA’s combined reported domestic smokeless product shipment volume increased 9.5% primarily due to one extra shipping day and volume growth for Copenhagen and Skoal.
For the first nine months USSTC and PM USA’s combined reported domestic smokeless shipment volume increased 6% due to volume growth for Copenhagen and Skoal partially offset by declines for the other portfolio brands.
Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined reported shipment volume increased 10.5% for the third quarter and 7.2% for the first nine months.
After adjusting for an extra shipping day trade inventory changes and other factors USSTC and PMUSA estimate that their combined domestic smokeless product shipment volume grew approximately 4% for the third quarter.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors USSTC and PM USA estimate that their combined domestic smokeless product shipment volume grew approximately 5% for the first nine months in line with estimated volume growth for the smokeless products category over the 12 months ending September 30 2013.
For the third quarter and the first nine months Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined retail share increased 0.1 and 0.4 of a share point respectively.
USSTC and PMUSA’s combined retail share for the third and the first nine months decreased 0.3 and 0.2 of a share point respectively as retail share losses for Skoal and other portfolio brands were mostly offset by retail share gains for Copenhagen.
Ste.
Michelle grew operating company’s income by 7.7% for the third quarter due to improved premium mix and higher pricing partially offset by higher selling general and administrative expenses and lower shipment volume.
For the first nine months Ste.
Michelle grew operating company’s income by 15.9% due to higher shipment volume improved premium mix and higher pricing partially offset by higher selling general and administrative expenses.
Ste.
Michelle’s shipment volume decreased 2% for the third quarter primarily due to changes in trade inventories.
For the first nine months Ste.
Michelle’s shipment volume grew 4.7% primarily due to increased distribution of 14 hands [ph].
During the third quarter Altria paid $883 million in dividends and purchased shares valued at approximately $156 million.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
As a reminder the tobacco product pricing and retail share figures are from the tracking services we introduced in the first quarter of 2013.
We will also provide you with restated figures from the third quarter of 2012 so you will be able to compare the periods.
Marlboro’s price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 34% in the third quarter of 2013 and 35% in the third quarter of 2012.
Marlboro’s net pack price in the third quarter of 2013 was $5.86 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.36.
For the third quarter of 2012 Marlboro’s net pack price was $5.77 while the lowest effective price cigarette was $4.27.
The cigarette discount category’s retail share was 25.3% for third quarter of 2013 flat versus third quarter of 2012.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax as of September 30 2013 was $1.47 per pack an increase of $0.06 per pack versus the third quarter of 2012.
This includes the $1.60 per pack increase that took effect on July 1 in Minnesota the $1.00 per pack increase that took effect on July 31 in Massachusetts and the $0.10 increase that became effective August 1 in New Hampshire.
For the third quarter of 2013 Copenhagen’s retail price was $4.06 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 36%.
For the third quarter of 2012 Copenhagen’s retail price was $4.02 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 36%.
For the third quarter of 2012 Copenhagen's retail price was $4.02 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was approximately 37%.
CapEx was $49 million for the third quarter and $90 million for the first nine months of 2013.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $52 million for the third quarter we estimate that 2013 full year ongoing depreciation and amortization will be approximately $215 million.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Operator do we have any questions?  Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Marty I was surprised in the discreet third quarter that the smokeless division’s margins were down with volume and pricing up can you just speak to that what the factors were and there was this illusion to the timing of expenses what exactly is going on there? Yeah it’s just the cost coming in-and-out of the quarter at different times David.
I think the better number to look at the margin question is really the nine month period.
You can see there that actually the margin for that segment is up six-tenths of a percentage point to 42.2 so that’s how we look at it over time.
Again you know for sort of a larger reference point if you look back to the period of 2008 to 2012 as you know this segment really grew its margin quite substantially by more than seven percentage points.
So I think a quarter is really too short a period to look at this there is nothing particularly significant except for timing.
Okay.
And then on e-cigarettes I’m curious having MarkTen in the marketplace what do you know now about the product about consumer’s reaction to it in terms of consumer’s overall view towards e-cigarette that you might not have known actually being in the marketplace.
Yeah that’s a terrific question.
Thank you for asking that.
We’re having a very successful lead market in Indiana it’s too early obviously to rummage around I think in numbers but here’s what we know.
It was very enthusiastically received by the trade.
We were shooting to get coverage as you know across where cigarette volume is we’ve got coverage in moiré than 3 000 stores covering about 85% of cigarette volume.
We’ve gotten very good consumer feedback about the product.
And we had a learning plan the particulars of which I won’t go into as you might expect for competitive reasons but we had several questions that we wanted to ask about our offering.
And I think the lead market Indiana has given us excellent insight into the consumer into the offering we have its competitive position how it’s being received at the trade.
And so you know as our announcement says this morning it’s on to Arizona we’ve taken those learnings we’ve incorporated them into our offering that we will have in Arizona.
Our aspiration there is to cover about 2 000 stores and that’s how we’re trying to learn our way in this emerging category.
We have new consumers new products and we think that’s the right way forward.
But we’re really pleased with what we’ve learned in Indiana.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for calling in Dave.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Good morning everybody.
Marty your competitors this week have talked about the promotional environment in cigarettes being less promotional.
Is that a view that you share? I think I would refer to what we typically said about the segment.
You know it’s a competitive space.
It has been competitive it remains competitive.
I think what we’ve observed obviously as new products come in-and-out of the market and people try to get consumer awareness of those you see promotions from time-to-time and that’s what we would observe.
So I interpret that as that you don’t see much of a change then? I think it’s about what it’s been which is to stay competitive.
Okay.
Given that environment is there any opportunity for you to accelerate your price increases in smokeables? Well that’s our strategy always is to improve our profitability in the smokeable segment.
We look at that regularly.
As you know that’s done through a combination of factors including list price increases and changing our promotional levels as is appropriate.
As we’ve discussed previously we can do that not necessarily on a national level but we can go into regions and states and even markets to adjust those promotional levels.
So that’s certainly our strategy.
We are trying to maximize income while always making sure that the Marlboro share in particular remains in good form with some moderate momentum.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Hi I just want to ask first of all on keeping the wide range of EPS for the year and therefore has implications for Q4 is there any unique to Q4 we should consider be it at the low end or the high end of the range and unique to the comparisons? There is one that I would mention Chris which is that there is one fewer shipping Monday in the smokeless business and as you know a lot of volume goes out on our Mondays and there is one fewer of those in Q4 than there was in Q3 so that is a factor.
You know we are investing obviously in our E-vapor business so those are two factors I might bring to your attention.
Okay and I want to ask with the stronger volume in performance this quarter not only for an adjusted basis but on a reported basis the OTI for the smokable segment came in a little below my expectations so I am just curious if again there was anything unique to the costs this quarter? Or maybe even the phasing of the cost savings? Any factors you can help us understand the margin performance for that division.
No again I think the best way to understand that Chris is that is best understood over time.
We are trying to maximize income we look at that over time and you know if you look back at some other figures again for context you know that they are higher in the 2012 I think it was 4.2.
We are making investments in Marlboro.
We continue to roll out the Marlboro architecture.
We have improved the web site.
We have got digital technology for our marketing platform now so I think that is the way to understand it.
Howard you may want to say more.
Yes I think just two comments on Q3.
I mean when you look at year-over-year pricing the price realization was affected by the comp from last year and then there were more expenses in Q3 from a year-over-year trend perspective than there were in the first half but I don’t think that is a particular change in trend.
It is just that they just happen to fall more heavily in Q3 and certainly part of that is related to the phasing in the cost reduction program.
We got more of the cost savings earlier in that program but I still think to go back to the nine month numbers are probably more reflective of the overall trend.
Okay that is very helpful.
If I could ask just one quick follow up to the question that David asked it about and your comment how you have made some changes some learnings that are from Indiana was there any change to the actual physical product that you are selling in Arizona?  I am not going to get ahead of what we are going to do in Arizona but I can tell you that we are always looking at the product.
I think we have talked earlier that for this product Chris it is on the earlier part of the technology curve probably than the later part of the curve so we are consistently looking at that product to see if we can improve its acceptability to the adult tobacco consumer.
As you know the way we think about going to market is through our value equation with not just product but price and promotions and packaging and the like.
We are looking at all of that to make sure that our total bundle and offering to the consumer is the best we can offer.
We will have more to say about that as we get closer to December.
Okay.
Thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer from Citigroup.
I wanted to circle back on the timing of the investments I heard you loud and clear that more investment to come on the E-vapor business should part of the investment timing that we saw drive the increase in SG&amp;A were first out in the fourth quarter or is there more incremental spending to come Q4?  Well I think specifically looking at our investment in E-vapor there has been a ramp up in the back half and I think probably a further ramp up in Q4 obviously with a new test market being opened up.
I think as it relates to expenses in the rest of the business I think that is more of a Q3 phenomenon.
Okay understood.
On your smokeless business it looks like maybe Copenhagen is finding its footing from a price gap perspective and now holding steady at 36% and potentially finding an inflection point in the average price per can can you comment on how you view Copenhagen from a price gap perspective today and where it can go from here?  Well I guess I’ll start again with the strategy which is you know we’re trying to make sure that Copenhagen and Skoal are growing together and you saw that in the numbers both for the quarter and the nine months together they’re growing their volume quite nicely they’re growing their retail share.
Copenhagen as you know we’ve put some SKUs there Vivien that really have taken off.
That includes products that compete at the popular price level and it’s that mix I think that you may be referring to.
We’re pretty happy overall with Copenhagen’s performance in the marketplace it’s a very highly differentiated product and we like its performance.
Terrific and one last one on the smokeless business.
It looks like Skoal’s market share declines are accelerating and can you dive a little bit deeper into what’s driving that? Yeah I think as we’ve discussed previously we’ve been working hard at Skoal you know that’s a brand that requires some further work on its positioning at the time that we acquired that brand.
We’ve been hard at work at Skoal.
Obviously we started first with Copenhagen Copenhagen has really taken off as we’ve given it its SKUs and gotten it positioned correctly in the marketplace.
You know the strategy I think continues to work quite effectively because of the combination but there’s no denying that we would like to see Skoal’s share stabilize and we’re working very hard to make sure that that happens.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Hi Bonnie.
LLC</strong> Hi.
In terms of Edge you mentioned you’re rolling it out nationally later this month so could you talk about this national rollout relative to your recent rollout of Marlboro NXT and what are similarities and potential differences of your rollout plans and which line do you believe has the most upside potential? Sure.
Good question.
I think it’s best understood in the context of expanding the Marlboro Black family.
And so we know how we do this right.
We look for places in the market where there may be an unmet need or there’s place in our portfolio to look for attracting competitive smokers to our brand.
Edge is what the latest of that.
It’s very similar actually to the approach with NXT which is we try to put the market in front of the consumer we try to learn if successful we try to expand it.
We try to raise awareness through some introductory pricing and then we try to move it on to the promotional platform that’s best but I think it’s best understood as part of the Marlboro architecture and in this Marlboro in particular.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Marty I’m curious how you think broadly about line extensions and maybe what the right number of line extensions there should be on any kind of – or any of your brands and if there is a point where there might too many extensions that could possibly hurt Marlboro’s brand equity? I just want to understand your thinking there.
It’s a good question.
You always want to be thoughtful about your brand portfolio and we examine that rigorously.
We never bring an SKU to market simply for the sake of bringing it to market.
We have to satisfy ourselves generally speaking that there is a consumer need for it and that it fits in with our overall brand strategy.
And in Marlboro’s case in particular we always want to make sure that any SKU we bring to the market is going to enhance its equity and its premium that – and we don’t bring anything out in the Marlboro portfolio until we’ve gone through those filters and Marlboro Edge is a good example I think where we have satisfied ourselves.
We have high expectations for Edge to add to the overall portfolio as well as to contributing to Marlboro’s equity.
But you are right you have to be thoughtful about your portfolio and we try to do that particularly on Marlboro but certainly on all our brands.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then just my final question on MarkTen just a bit of a follow-on question.
How did it perform relative to your internal expectations and what have your repeat purchase trends been in the State? And that I’m sure that you’re seeing quite a bit of dual usage with cigarettes you know just any other consumer trends? Again I think it’s too early to talk about the numbers because I just don’t think that they are well-developed enough to share and to be confident in them but I can tell you that with respect to who’s trying to products and e-vapor generally we do know that there is dual use.
And in particular as adult smokers try e-vapor products we know that some of them are satisfied others are not some of them use them situational-y.
We have a pretty robust as you might expect consumer research program into who adult vapors are their patterns of use how they may be segmenting the products that we want and that’s all part of our learning plan in Indiana.
And again for proprietary reasons I’m not going to discuss that at this time but I can tell you that we’ve learned a lot it’s informed our judgment about moving forward in Arizona and we’re very excited about being able to move this platform forward.
Our next question is from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Judy.
First I just wanted to get clarification on the wholesale inventory level at the end of the third quarter I think some of your competitors have also noticed a movement to really limit inventory loading in fourth quarter ahead of the price increase speculations so I was just wondering if you expect a similar limitation to put on wholesalers and that potentially limits some of the volatility that we continue to see on a quarter-to-quarter basis on the inventory movement.
We have an allocation program that we have had for a long time so that is hardly anything new to us and with respect to the third quarter inventory levels I think we referenced as a bit of a build but there is nothing really very significant in cigarette inventory levels from third quarter to third quarter a year ago in our observation.
Okay and then a couple of questions on the E-cigarettes I think this is more of a broad category question and now that you have participation in the category I am just curious to your observation about the pace of category growth that you are seeing at this point versus maybe a year ago.
Sequentially it looks like the pace of that category growth is a little bit more modest I was just curious what you think is driving that and whether we really need something a bigger innovation or better consumer acceptance to really accelerate a category growth and then related to that in terms of how your dialogue with some of the regulators both at the FDA level and at the state legislators are evolving as you now have a stake in the category with your product.
Thanks those are all excellent questions.
Let’s talk first of all about the category.
Obviously the category has grown very quickly off a very low base.
Whether it will continue to grow at that trajectory of course no one knows yet.
We have identified I think the factors that are likely to be contributing to that.
We have run scenarios against these.
We have talked about these previously I think.
You know one is the product itself.
As the products get better and become more acceptable to adult smokers you would expect for perhaps greater transition to the product.
Second is regulation.
If they are regulated very heavily by the FDA in ways that don’t encourage adult smokers to try them or to switch to them depending on what the FDA says about that that certainly is going to have a big effect on the category growth and then of course we have to deal with excise taxes.
We have engaged with all of the stakeholders in those questions for some time now including I would say even before we even entered Indiana.
We have strong views on this.
We think that the FDA should regulate on a scientific basis and we have been communicating with the FDA regularly both about the category and our product.
The same has been true with respect to excise taxes.
I think you know we have a robust government affairs organization and we have a lot of experience here.
We are trying to help legislators think about the correct excise tax approach which in many ways is bound up in the same question as the regulatory approach.
So we are fully engaged on this and I think as to how fast it grows or how slow it grows those will be the factors in our view that will determine that largely.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks for your call.
Our next question comes from Filippe Goossens from Mitsubishi Securities.
Yes good morning Marty thanks for taking my call.
I have a couple of questions on E6 if I may.
One of your competitors stated yesterday they see E6 as actually a global opportunity hence their acquisition of a player in the UK markets.
Is there an understanding between yourselves and PMI as to your ability to enter that space as well globally that is what you would decide to do at some point in time? Well I think you are referred back obviously to the spin-off of PMI and there were arrangements in place of course dealing with the existing businesses at that time which was cigarettes.
Obviously cigarettes and E-vapor is a category that has emerged since that time so the answer is no.
Okay and then secondly it is probably still too early to tell but based on your current read with regard to the potential of E6 now in the U.S.
do you think that at some point in time this would start to cannibalize the smokeless category as well? Well we’ll have to see I guess.
We haven’t really been – you know the question usually comes in the form of whether it’s going to take some volume away from cigarettes and what we said there of course is that it’s still small it’s hard to tease that out.
We know that some adult smokers are certainly trying e-cigarettes and so it will have some effect on volume but you can’t tease it out.
We haven’t seen very much about that on smokeless but I guess time will tell.
Good morning.
When you’re launching Marlboro Edge does that have any impact on the rest of – how you think about discounting and promotions on the rest of Marlboro Black and has it allowed you to dial back any of the discounting levels on other SKUs there? Well Marlboro Edge is a premium product and it’s in the premium family of Marlboro.
What we try to do there is to offer introductory pricing to try to attract competitive adult smokers to it so that’s I think the best way to understand that which is it’s a premium offering.
We do offer some promotions to try to get some awareness and certainly trial because we think if they it they’ll like it.
Yeah.
I guess what I’m getting at is you’ve had some of these similar launches over the last couple of years now and some of these ones that are you know one or two or more years old.
How long does introductory pricing last I mean is there some color you can give on what the discount levels are doing on these ones that have had introductory pricing is that sort of passing the baton to Marlboro Edge or do some of those still have more extended periods of introductory pricing level? Well I think the way to think about it is is the total competitive set.
So you want to have introductory pricing to try to make sure that the product has awareness that it’s out there that it’s a new product and that it’s available.
We also offer as you grow brands and as you know in this category brands don’t grow overnight and particularly when you have the big share like we do in Marlboro bigger than the next 10 brands combined you know these are trends that take place over time.
And so we have promotional plans in place for them that we evolve over time but it’s always designed to how we’re doing against the competitive set of adult competitive smokers.
And that’s how we think about it.
As you’ve heard us discuss many many times we take the long view in this business and with this segment and we’re patient.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just looking at the other segment you know there was the help in the you know what used to be PMCC plus other line from you know what looks like an asset sale.
Can you give any sense of how much in fact that might have had or what that run rate would have looked like without that there? Yes.
I mean we’re not breaking out the other between the various contributors but certainly within the third quarter you had a contribution from PMCC and then the other item in there is our investments in the e-vapor category.
And so that results from the combination of the two.
Alright.
And then you mentioned on 4Q is it just one less shipping day specifically for the smokeless segment or is that for everything? Smokeless only.
Okay.
And just kind of following up on Judy’s question on the inventory.
Is there a build – it looks like you might have had a modest build into or at the end of 3Q? Is there much of an impact you would expect that to have on 4Q shipment to kind of make up for it? Yes.
I don’t think that – we did have a modest build in the third quarter and that compares to the prior year when there was a modest drawdown in inventory.
But I wouldn’t expect that it’s going to have much impact on the fourth quarter but it’s too soon to tell.
I think we’re going to have to see how things shake out in the latter part of the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for your call.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chris Evert from Bloomberg News.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Marty I want to ask about e-cigs kind of a broader question.
You know as they gain popularity around the country I’m guessing that companies are beginning to look into whether to allow vaping in the workplace.
How do you see that playing out? And what are the factors FDA regulations and others that is going to direct or – what factors are going to guide how vaping in the workplace plays out?  Okay thanks for your question.
Our view on that is it should be guided by the science.
As the science develops around vaping and in this case your question really goes to the heart of is there any risk from second-hand vaping if you will and as the FDA looks at all of these questions I think that there you need a scientific [indiscernible] space approach to that.
What we would like to see in the short term is that regulation should have a good reason for its basis and in the absence of a reason or knowledge about that we would like obviously to have the FDA have an opportunity to do the work that is required.
So I think that it will follow from the science.
It will follow from the evidence and we are engaging with the FDA and other regulators about that.
Your next question comes from Thomas Russo from Gardner Russo &amp; Gardner  Hi good morning.
Hi Tom.
Hi good morning.
I have a couple of questions on excise taxes.
On the increased excise tax level any upcoming planned increases and if not what are the prospects for any federal excise tax activity? Second as for the smokeless category where do you stand in the process of converting states from ad forum to specific and what is the general level of excises taxes looking out for the next 12 months for the smokeless? Okay let me take those in turn.
Let me start with the FET.
Tom as you know there is a proposal [indiscernible] in the budget and there is some activity trying to persuade people to get behind that.
We oppose that.
As you know these taxes are aggressive with a huge increase in 2009.
You know so far there has not been a lot of traction on that but we are monitoring that carefully with our federal government affairs team.
Good.
The second question Tom was about smokeless and ad [indiscernible].
We continue obviously to advocate where it is appropriate to do so to move the weight base we think that it is a much fairer system.
There are opportunities that present itself in the states from time to time to advance that argument and we do that forcefully when we have opportunities to do that.
I would say the FET outlook generally Howard in his remarks I think covered what we have seen so far both with respect really with respect to cigarettes and we are always guarded.
State budgets are better than they were but they still have gaps in them and we are watchful.
You may have seen there was a media report on a proposal for an excise tax increase in the city of Chicago.
So these things pop up from time to time and our approach to them is to try to get in there and advocate for why they are unfair on our adult consumers.
Good thank you.
Thanks for calling.
Presenters there are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus for closing comments.
Thank you all for being on the call today.
Thank you.
If you have any questions please contact our IR department and thank you all for joining us.
And thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2013 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and the question-and-answer session.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria’s CFO to talk about Altria’s results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013.
During our call today unless otherwise stated results are being compared to the same period in 2012.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our fourth quarter and full year results.
For a detailed review about Altria’s business results please review the earning release on our website at altria.com.
Our remarks contain forward-looking cautionary statements and projection of future results.
And we direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today’s earnings release for review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which exclude items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings press release and are available on our web site.
Now I will turn the call over to Marty.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Altria successfully delivered against its financial goals in 2013 and continued its strong track record of delivering earnings and dividends growth for its shareholders.
For the full year Altria delivered adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7.7% on the strength of its diverse business model and solid performance by its core tobacco businesses.
We also enhanced our capital structure in 2013 and provided significant cash returns to our shareholders.
We increased our dividend by 9.1% in 2013 our 47th dividend increase in the last 44 years and paid shareholders more than $3.6 billion in dividends.
Altria further rewarded shareholders by repurchasing shares totaling $600 million in 2013.
We have approximately $457 million remaining in the current $1 billion program which we expect to complete by the end of the third quarter of 2014.
Of course the timing of any purchases will depend on marketplace conditions and other factors.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 Altria tendered for high coupon debt and replaced it with new lower cost debt.
These transactions along with the retirement of debt at its scheduled maturity improved our debt maturity profile and lowered future interest expense.
As a result of our 2013 capital market’s activities Altria reduced its weighted average coupon rate to 5.9% at year-end 2013 from 7.2% at year-end 2012.
We also delivered on our cost reduction commitments.
Altria completed its cost reduction program in the fourth quarter of 2013 by achieving $400 million in annualized savings versus previously planned spending.
And Altria continued to deliver value to shareholders through mixed diverse income streams including our equity investment in SABMiller which generated pretax income of approximately $1 billion for Altria in 2013.
So in summary in 2013 Altria complemented its operating company’s performance by effectively employing multiple tools cost savings share repurchases debt management and its SABMiller investment to enhance shareholder value.
Let's turn to the performance of our core businesses.
In the smokeable products segment PM USA delivered on its strategy to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro over times.
This segment grew adjusted operating companies income for the quarter and the full year primarily through higher pricing.
Investments in the Marlboro brand architecture and product expansions helped PM USA balance income growth and share gains to maintain its marketplace leadership.
Marlboro grew 0.1 of the retail share point for the year.
In the smokeless product segment our strategy is to maximize income by growing volume at or ahead of the smokeless category and to maintain modest share momentum on Copenhagen and Skoal combined.
In 2013 the smokeless product segment produced solid adjusted operating companies income growth primarily through higher pricing and volume and grew Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined volume and retail share.
Driven by its strong brand equity Copenhagen performed well in both the quarter and the end year while Skoal continued to face strong competitive pressure.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle delivered double-digit operating companies income growth for the full year through higher pricing and its focus on increasing distribution of premium wines.
Altria also took important steps in 2013 to develop and commercialize innovative products for adult tobacco consumers.
In the fourth quarter Altria increased its investment in the e-vapor category.
Nu Mark expanded the MarkTen e-cigarettes test market into Arizona with a new flavor system and packaging configuration.
So far MarkTen is off to a very strong start in Arizona and has benefited of gaining trial.
It’s now available in about 1 900 Arizona stores and about 5 000 stores across both the Arizona and Indiana test markets.
Nu Mark is making good progress in understanding adult smokers and vapors preferences and the MarkTen value equation in a disciplined way.
Also in December Altria announced disagreements with Philip Morris International that creates opportunities to commercialize our e-vapor products internationally and to expand our innovative products portfolio in the U.S.
Through licensing regulatory engagement and contract manufacturing arrangements Altria is providing PMI with an exclusive license to commercialize Altria’s e-vapor products internationally and PMI is providing exclusive rights to two of its innovative next-generation products to Altria for commercialization in the U.S.
We have also agreed to cooperate with PMI on scientific assessment regulatory engagement and sharing of improvements regarding these products.
We view these agreements as mutually beneficial to us and PMI and an important opportunity to advance Altria’s development of innovative products for adult tobacco consumers.
2013 was a successful year for Altria.
We delivered against our strategy to maximize the core tobacco business while innovating and investing to grow revenue streams for the future.
Altria delivered 2013 total shareholder return of 28.6% which outpace the S&amp;P food beverage and tobacco indexes return to 22.9%.
Looking ahead to 2014 our core tobacco businesses are well positioned to deliver strong income growth through their leading premium brands.
We also expect to benefit from lower interest expense a lower effective tax rate and a reduction in shares from our ongoing current share repurchase program.
However we plan to make disciplined and incremental investments to build our e-vapor business and we anticipate continued variability in gains from asset sales at Philip Morris Capital Corporation.
Finally although some economic indicators are improving adult tobacco consumers continue to face challenges.
Altria thus forecasts its 2014 adjusted diluted EPS will increase by 6% to 9% to a range of $2.52 to $2.59 from its 2013 days of $2.38.
I’ll now turn things over to Howard who will discuss our business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
As Marty mentioned each of our reportable segments grew adjusted operating company’s income in 2013.
Notably each of the segment also expanded adjusted operating company’s income margins through solid price realization and a continued focus on cost management.
Although we have concluded the $400 million cost reduction program we will continue to focus on carefully managing costs in 2014.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 the smokeable product segments reported operating company’s increased 4.5% to $1.6 billion primarily driven by higher pricing lower selling general and administrative costs and lower restructuring charges partially offset our lower reported shipment volume.
The segments fourth quarter adjusted operating company’s income grew 3.6% and its adjusted operating company’s income margins grew 2.2 percentage points to 42.1%.
For the full year Altria’s sociable product segments grew reported operating company’s income 13.2% to over $7 billion primarily through higher pricing.
PM USA’s non-participating manufacturer’s adjustment settlement and the NPM Arbitration Panel Decision as well as lower selling general and administrative expenses.
These factors were partially offset by lower reported shipment volume and higher resolution expense.
Excluding the impact of items detailed in today’s press release including the NPM adjustment items adjusted operating company’s income increased 2.4% in 2013 to approximately $6.4 billion.
For the full year sociable product segments adjusted operating company’s income margins increased one percentage point to 42.2% in 2013.
Over the last couple of years PM USA estimates its cigarette category volumes have declined at a rate of 3% to 4% and we believe that trend continued in 2013.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates that its domestic cigarette shipment volumes decreased approximately 4% for both the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 and that the category also declined approximately 4%.
Marlboro's fourth quarter retail share grew by 0.2 of a share point to 43.7%.
PM USA's total share of the cigarette category was up 0.3 of a share point to 50.7% for the quarter.
Marlboro's retail share was 43.7% for the full year as well.
Share gains by Marlboro and L&amp;M were partially offset by share losses another portfolio brands.
In 2013 L&amp;M continued to gain retail share as the total discount segment was flat to declining.
In total PM USA achieved a 50.6% share of the cigarette category in 2013 up from 50.3% in 2012.
We are pleased to the performance of both PM USA and Marlboro especially in light of competitive line extensions and price promotions in the second half of 2013.
In the machine made large cigar category Middleton's volume decreased 3.2% for the full year.
Black &amp; Mild declined 1.3 retail share points driven by heightened competitive activity from low-priced cigar brands.
Middleton adjusted its plans during the year and moderated its decline rate although the competitive environment remains difficult.
For the fourth quarter Middleton's volume increased 8.5%.
Black &amp; Mild's retail share was down 0.7 of a share point in the fourth quarter.
Turning to smokeless products in the fourth quarter reported operating company’s income for the segment was essentially flat while adjusted OCI increased by 1.2% primarily driven by higher pricing and offset by higher promotional investments and lower volume.
For the full year the smokeless product segment delivered reported operating company’s income growth of 9.9% and adjusted OCI growth of 7% to over $1 billion due primarily to higher pricing increased volume lower restructuring charges and effective cost management.
These factors were partially offset by higher promotional spending and mix.
Smokeless products segments adjusted operating companies income margins grew by 1.5 percentage points to 62.3% for 2013.
Due to calendar differences the smokeless product segment had one less shipping day in the fourth quarter and the full year of 2013 representing approximately one full week of volume which affected reported shipments for both periods.
In particular Copenhagen and Skoal combined reported shipment volume was down 3.5% for the fourth quarter.
For the full year Copenhagen and Skoal combined reported shipment volume increased 4.3%.
After adjusting for calendar difference trade inventory changes and other factors USSTC and PMUSA estimate their smokeless shipment volume grew 5% and that the smokeless category volume for both periods grew at a rate of approximately 5.5%.
For the full year USSTC grew combined Copenhagen and Skoal retail share by 0.3 of a share point to 50.7% supported by product expansions over the past several years included Copenhagen Winter Green and the southern blend.
Ste.
Michelle delivered another year of strong income and volume growth.
Wine segment operating company’s income increased 9.8% in the fourth quarter and 13.5% to $118 million for the full year.
Wine shipment volume grew 5.8% for the fourth quarter and 5% for the full year primarily on the strong performance of 14 Hands.
That wraps up our operating results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Marlboro’s price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 34% for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2013.
In 2012 Marlboro’s price gap was 34% for the fourth quarter and 35% for the full year.
Marlboro’s net pack price was $5.86 in the fourth quarter up from $5.75 a year ago and $5.83 for the full year up from $5.74 in 2012.
The lowest effective priced cigarette was $4.38 in the fourth quarter and $4.34 for the full year up $0.09 and $0.08 versus 2012 respectively.
The cigarette discount category’s retail share was 25.2% for the fourth quarter and 25.3% for the full year of 2013.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 the discount category retail share was 25.6% and for the full year of 2012 discount category share was 25.4%.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the fourth quarter was $1.47 per pack unchanged from the third quarter and up $0.06 per pack from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Copenhagen’s retail price was $4.07 for the fourth quarter and $4.06 for the full year and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was 35% for the fourth quarter and 36% for the full year.
Copenhagen’s fourth quarter 2012 retail price was $4.04 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was 38%.
For the full year of 2012 Copenhagen’s retail price was $4.04 and its price gap versus the leading discount brand was 39%.
CapEx was $41 million for the fourth quarter and $131 million for the full year.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $54 million for the fourth quarter and $212 million for the full year.
Operator do we have any questions?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hi Vivien.
My first question has to do with your outlook for 2014 and specifically for the U.S.
cigarette category combustibles.
Can you offer a little color on how you’re thinking about category volumes for the year?  Well as you know we don't forecast volume going forward but I can tell you that what we see over the last several years is that the cigarette volume declines have been in the range of 3% to 4% and we’ve gone through our model on that of both secular decline and some pricing elasticity.
That's what we see basically in 2013 the continuation of that trend and we don't see any particular drivers in 2013 that caused us to believe any differently about that.
That’s fair.
Given kind of the state of the consumer do you think it’s fair to say that volume declines will probably come in at the lower end of that range like it did in 2013?  Well it’s hard to say going forward.
I do think that a word or two about the consumer is important.
It’s a good question.
The macro trends are improving in some domains but the way we look at our business is always – well half of those macro trends impact our adult tobacco consumer.
And so I can tell you how we’re thinking about it is that unemployment remains unfortunately high at about what – six seven underemployment is higher than that.
Labor participation rates are not robust and as you know the adult tobacco consumer tends to over index in those domains.
So it’s hard to find a lot of encouragement there.
Consumer confidence generally is up but it’s nowhere around where we’d like to see it which is difficult for us say 100 before the recession hit.
We watch housing starts pretty carefully.
We see some improvements in the housing figures but again they’re far below where they should be.
So we’re always hopeful that the economy is going to improve for everyone.
It’s just hard to find a lot of drivers that cause us to believe that for the adult tobacco consumer 2014 is going to look very much different than 2013.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
One last one please.
On the competitive landscape you cited since that competitive activity in the back half.
Would you categorize that as relatively rational? Are you seeing any shift in kind of competitive bolstering?  Well I’d say what I always say about this.
This is a business that has always been competitive.
It was competitive in 2013.
Our plan assumes that the businesses will continue to be competitive.
I think what’s important though I think is to have – look at how PM USA is able to navigate through that environment.
We had very good price realization as you saw last year.
We had margin expansion grew adjusted OCI to nearly $6.5 billion modestly grew Marlboro share modestly grew overall PM USA share and that was at a time when we continue to invest in our plans like through the Marlboro architecture.
So what I would say Vivien even though it’s competitive it’s an environment in which PM USA and has been able to really effectively operate on its strategy had very good results in 2013.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for your call Vivien.
Our next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
I had two questions Marty.
The first can you explain or speak to this gap in the fourth quarter between your cigarette shipments down 5.8% and your estimate that the underlying consumption was down 4% and I asked that in the context that the timing of your – end of your price increases both years were fairly similar.
Yes.
This comes up from time to time.
I think we talked about this actually in the first quarter if memory serves.
It really is the difference in trade inventory movements and other factors but the trade inventory movements as you know make a big difference.
If you look at it throughout the quarter though on an adjusted basis or for the full year David on an adjusted basis we’re confident that it’s about 4%.
The pricing is I remember for the quarter was – I think PM USA announced its pricing I think the last week of November this quarter to have become effective around the first of the year and though when we model that out that’s what it looks like to us.
Okay.
And then Marty with respect to MarkTen could you speak to the market share you’ve been able to generate in the geographies in which you’re competing what the trajectory of your market share has been in those markets? And also because the spending considering the P&amp;L wasn’t insignificant this year and you are calling out that as a potential headwind in 2014 what’s the potential opportunity that you’re calibrating you’re spending against?  Yes that’s a great question about MarkTen.
Thanks for asking it.
Look we have about a month’s worth of data and so I don’t want to roll out numbers.
We’ll have more to say about this in CAGNY which is coming up and I hope to have some numbers to show you there.
What I can tell you is that we have a plan that we’ve set out in Arizona the same way we did in Indiana really about what we’re trying to learn.
That’s how you do test markets in a disciplined kind of way and I think we have very good plan in place to learn and what we’ve learned is so far we wanted to get broad distribution of our MarkTen product at retail and our sales force has done a great job of doing that.
As I mentioned in the remarks we’re in about 1 900 stores there.
We wanted to find out trade acceptance and I can tell you the trade acceptance of the product is enthusiastic and so we’re learning a lot about working with the trade there.
I can tell you we like the MarkTen product a lot.
It is a terrific product.
We think we have a good offering and we believe if we can get it in the hands of consumers that they will think so too.
And so we have a revised promotion plan that is setting us out to do exactly that.
I can assure you when we enter these test markets though we had very specific goals we’re setting out to answer and to learn from.
We have metrics that we have put in place to know whether we’re achieving them and then of course we’re always looking to try to leverage those learnings as we did for example from Indiana to Arizona about learning our way forward.
We believe that’s the right way forward in emerging categories.
We try to learn wisely and we try to learn it in a disciplined kind of way.
So that’s how we’re thinking about Arizona.
And again I hope that we will have more for you at CAGNY about that.
Okay thanks.
See you then.
Thanks for calling in.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
My first question is on Marlboro and I guess I’m trying to get a sense of the overall health of your Marlboro franchise in light of the recent line expansions with Edge and then NXT earlier last year.
How incremental were these lines and how well did your core Marlboro perform and then any learning’s from these extensions and how full edge in your Marlboro innovation pipeline for this year? Yes well we think Marlboro performed terrifically and we’ve talked from time to time about its brand equity using a variety of measures.
I won’t repeat them all here you know what they are in terms of the scale in terms of being the largest brand everywhere in terms of being able to have a really premium price gap that’s been constant despite the ad recessions and FET’s and so forth and so on.
When we will allow Marlboro extensions we always check to make sure that they are incremental to the equity of Marlboro and so when we bring out products like NXT or we bring out products like Edge We’ve spoken before about the number of SKUs in Marlboro.
We don’t bring them willy-nilly.
We try to make sure that there is a consumer demand for them there.
And of course we’re always trying to attract adult competitive smokers and I think that PM USA has done a very good job with that both over time and in 2013.
Okay thanks for that.
And then I wanted to ask you a little more about the agreement you’ve reached with Philip Morris International and you think it’s like a very big opportunity.
So could you talk a little bit more about this opportunity as well as timing and next step and also how should we think about the potential upside to your earnings and the relative payment you’ll receive as PMI rolled out your e-cig technology internationally? And then finally as you work into the future could you talk about how you envision your reduced risk portfolio evolving? Okay there is a lot there.
Let me see if I can impact that a little bit for us.
It is an important step forward and I appreciate your asking about it.
From the Altria perspective as I was just discussing with David we really like our technology in e-vapor.
We think we’ve done a very good job with that and so it’s great that we have an opportunity to partner with PMI so that it can be sold in international markets.
As you know PMI is a terrific company.
We have a higher regard for it.
It has global scale it has global infrastructure.
And I think putting our technology in PMI hands to trying to sell that to a adult vapors elsewhere in the world is a good thing for Altria it’s good thing for PMI.
I think in addition as we’ve spoken about previously our innovation strategy for adult tobacco consumers is to offer them a variety of products that are innovative from conventional products and may hold out the promise if FDA where able to approve them of reduced harm and that's exactly what PMI has been working on with its NGP platforms one and two.
So we now have those in our portfolio through this agreement and as PMI and with our support work on FDA it’s an extremely important strategic step forward for harm reduction I think for consumers and we're hopeful about that.
In terms of contribution to earnings I think it’s early there.
There are royalty agreements in place but really I think this is more about getting the products in each other’s hands and seeing if we can bring them to adult tobacco consumers and see if they will take themselves.
From our perspective that's the way we’re thinking about innovation.
We follow the consumer.
The consumer will decide about the innovative products.
Our job is to invent them to commercialize them and to work with the FDA where appropriate to make sure that they make it to market.
So that's kind of our strategy in a nutshell.
All right.
Thanks for that.
Thanks Bonnie.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Good morning everybody.
Thilo.
Just a follow-up on the MarkTen question.
In your base business case for MarkTen what level of indoor usage restrictions is built into that base business model?  You broke up just a little bit Thilo.
Say it again.
Oh sorry.
For the base business case for MarkTen what level of usage restriction is similar to smoking ban? What level of user instructions you have included in that base business case for MarkTen? Yes we have modeled out basically three scenarios.
We don't know there are some unknowns obviously in e-vapor and innovation generally.
They regard excise taxes technology improvements and then the regulatory situation.
So rather than to have a [indiscernible] we have three cases where we assume there is varying degrees of flexibility or regulation there so we’ve actually done three cases.
And what's the assumption for the base case? Well I’m not going into get into the proprietary nature of how we’ve modeled it out.
I think it's fair to say though that if there is a general belief by the regulators and others that moved into e-vapor is a good thing for adult tobacco consumers.
You can assume that there will be greater migration than less.
Fair enough.
And then in your outlook for fiscal 2014 or calendar 2014 what impact will the end of the tobacco grower buyout have on the competitive landscape what's your expectation there?  Howard? Yes I mean I think with regard to the end of the quarter it happens really the impact of the fourth quarter of 2014 and that really occurs across the industry so I think it’s a cost reduction opportunity really across the sector in the U.S.
With regard to how the various players react to that cost reduction I think we’ll have to wait and see how that plays out but of course we continue to be focused on our strategy in the smokeable segment of maximizing profitability while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro and clearly that cost reduction is an opportunity.
So there is no assumption that – yet that you would be willing to share whether you can be able to keep that cost reduction or whether you have to pass it on to smokers given the competitive environment? Yes I think we’re not going to share kind of our plan at that level of detail but certainly that is one of items that’s baked into our overall guidance for the year.
Okay and then last question I have for you.
Can you give us an update on your strategy and plans for L&amp;M? I think so far you’ve always commented that it was supposed to offset the share losses for Basic is that still the case or is that maybe something more ambitious in place for L&amp;M? No I think it’s pretty much as we described it before deal – there are some people who participate in the discount segment that’s not our focus of course but we want to have an offering there.
L&amp;M is the offering that we give them our retailer trade partners in particular who like for us to have a good discount for them but we’re not trying to grow the discount category.
That’s not our focus.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Greg Hessler with Bank of America.
[indiscernible] for Greg.
Good morning.
Quick question about your – good morning.
Quick question for you about kind of your debt plans and capital structure plans going forward.
I know you guys did the tender at the end of last year as well as paying down that maturity.
What are your plans for the upcoming maturity and do you and kind of as a follow-up to that do you have any more liability management plans going on in the future? I think we’re pretty pleased with the progress we made on our balance sheet.
We’ve got our weighted average interest cost down to 5.9%.
And we feel pretty comfortable with our current credit ratings as well as our current debt to EBITDA ratio.
So I don’t know that I would communicate anything beyond the fact that we’ve been following a pretty consistent strategy over time to bring our interest rate down we think we’ve been successful and we’ll continue to look for opportunities in the future to improve that but we’re certainly not going to share anything at the detailed level about changes in the short-term.
Thank you.
Thank you for calling in.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Good morning.
Hi Michael.
So your press release in smokeable in the quarter was good it was roughly about the pace it's been all year or even a slight uptick from 3Q even despite that the competitive launch of Newport Gold.
What are you seeing kind of in the marketplace there and can you compare or contrast that to when Newport Red would have launched?  Well I guess maybe I’ll take it up a level.
We did have good price realizations.
You could see both – we had all the quarters then above 4% for the year.
So I think this is consistent with what Howard just said about trying to maximize income in the smokeable segment.
It is always a balance between growing income and watching the share.
And I think PM USA did a good job of that and I expect a good job of that in 2014.
Manufacturers do launch products into the market from time to time you do see promotional pricing as they try to gain adult tobacco consumer awareness.
That's just part of the usual backdrop of how the business gets done Michael.
All right that's helpful thanks.
And somewhat related on the margins you had a strong list in that segment as well against a decent comparison and even stronger one the year before.
Is there anything specifically driving that or part of what I’d love to get a little color onto is the fourth quarters gone from one of the lowest margin quarters in the year so one of the higher ones is there any shifts you have made in kind of the operations or is it just getting some better pricing there.
What's been driving that?  Yes.
I wouldn't put too much into kind of quarter to quarter variations in the cost trend.
I would probably tend to look at this full year of 2013 compared to the prior year to get a better estimate.
You certainly – you’re pointing out to the fact that we had and above trend for the quarters cost reduction in the fourth quarter.
But I think that has more to do with just the way the spending unfolded on a quarter by quarter basis and of course we're always managing to a full year.
So I don't think there is anything significant that I would call out there was a change in trend.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just on the review process for the dealing regulations with the FDA it’s been that OMB now for a few –close to months.
Is there any involvement you have with them or any visibility you have on that process or is that a little bit of kind of a black box.
Yes I mean we said before we had lots of ongoing relationships with the Agency and also with OMB and others.
But I just don't have anything to offer you on that.
You are exactly right splendid [ph] OMB and there have been periodic announcements that is coming but we haven’t seen it and we haven’t heard – really heard much about when it might be coming other than what they have said.
Now okay that’s helpful.
And then just one last one on e-cigarettes in terms of how you think about a broader launch internationally.
Is it just a question of getting the learning and the products in the sort of toned or is there any capacity issues or what are the sort of things that would trigger that international launch? Well we haven’t said anything about that and I won’t this morning but we have a disciplined way of learning our way in all of the factors you mentioned of course are important to make sure that we would know if and when we decide to do that.
We want to make sure that product offering would be right and the branding is right and the promotion is right.
We just think about this through our value equation that you heard us talk about before and certainly you want to make sure the capacity is in line.
Great thank you.
Michael thanks for calling in.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
So Marty just wanted to go back to your 2014 outlook between the interest expenses coming down the lower taxes and the share buyback benefit.
It seems like the operating income growth in 2014 is expected to be pretty modest and I understand you caught out some of the headwinds but let’s just hoping to get some more perspective and is this really the set of spending that’s causing a bit of a slowdown in terms of the operating profit growth.
How should we think about that in the context of your guidance? Yes thanks for asking.
Listen we have a good plan for 2014 I like the plans of our operating company’s I think they have done a good job at that but it’s the factors that we identified for you really that we are trying to explain which is we do had some headwinds in terms of making investments in the innovative space.
And then we do have variability I’m going to ask Howard to comment in this.
We have variability in the capital core contributions from time to time you want to talk about that Howard?   Sure I mean I think we’ve communicated this before that as we – in wine and PMCC not only does the lease income come down over time but there are asset sales that equate variable on a year-to-year basis.
And certainly in 2013 we had quite strong asset sales after settling some of the tax issues of the IRS on the LILO SILO leases.
We found the opportunity to sell several of those assets in 2013.
So I think that certainly one of the drivers of the comparison from 2014 to 2013 is some of the lumpiness in PMCC’s income.
And then I think the second thing is that while certainly we made investments in 2013 towards competing effectively in the e-cigarette category.
We are certainly planning in 2014 to make further investments as we focus on being successful in that emerging new category.
Okay.
And then just may be a bit of a follow-up on MarkTen and just the e-vapor category generally Marty.
As you obviously participate in the broader tobacco category how do you sort of think about you know how you build equity brand equity in e-vapor category versus cigarettes or smokeless are there some differences similarities that you can call out and you know your thought process and thinking about how to invest in that particular product or category.
Yeah I actually – that’s a terrific question.
The brands obviously that have been in the take the cigarette category have obviously been out there for sometime and brand equity as you is built over time.
Marlboro’s equity has been built over decades and because everyone is now launching products and trying to gain brand equity it will take sometime.
I think one of the advantages that some players will have is those that know how to build brands will have an advantage here.
I would argue that Altria and its operating companies have a long and a rich heritage of being able to built brand that’s one.
Two I think is making sure that you are just being consumer centric.
You always have to start with a consumer you have to get it in the offering that they want and then you build equity off of that platform.
So that’s how we think about it at least but its early days in e-vapor it’s going to take some time for a lot of things to sort itself out and it will take time for equity to be build in this category just like most others.
And the two test markets that you have entered Marty have you noticed the pick up in the category growth in those markets as you have entered in those markets.
We obviously Arizona is very very early.
We’ll have some data to share about this I expect at CAGNY I don’t want to get ahead of looking at those numbers at this time.
But we will try to get that information for you.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
Judy thanks for calling.
We will now take questions from the media.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Nik Modi with RBC Capital.
Good morning guys.
Hi Nik.
So just two quick questions Marty there’s been a lot of talk honestly about e-cigarettes and different shift from regular cigarettes but if you really look at the underlying trend and then go back kind of rolling over the last two years looks like for this particular year in 2013.
The category declined it has moderated as year progressed despite e-cigarettes growing as faster as they’ve been growing.
And I wonder that you can just provide some big picture thoughts on that.
And then the second question which is more specific to Arizona can you talk about some of the product changes that you have made to MarkTen direct with the Indiana just kind of talk about some of the modifications that makes the product? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks for the question.
We continue to look carefully at the growth of e-cigarettes and its potential effect on cigarette volumes and we continue to believe that it’s modest.
It’s obviously is a category that has grown very fast and you’re right.
It gets a lot of attention.
But we believe it’s probably still in the secular decline rate which we’d estimated to be 2% to 3% which makes up a variety of things which is lower incidents fewer cigarettes per day – people babbling and pipe tobacco.
We believe that the e-cigarette number is probably in that number.
With respect to Arizona we made a couple of changes that are probably worth mentioning.
One of them is we put a new flavor system and we think it significantly enhanced the censorial experience.
We changed the bundle that we were offering including a charger in the kit and I think those things have been extremely well received by the consumer today.
Our next question comes from Chris Gowe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Hi Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Hi just a two questions for you.
I want to ask first maybe bit of a follow-up to the question earlier and how can I get a response from the variability in PMCC.
If you were to look at the fourth quarter where that division turned to a loss is that – I just wanted to be clear or maybe you can categorize this.
Was it the heavy investments in e-cigarettes was that something like kind of a dramatic mover in the quarter or is it more about the volatility in PMCC that caused that to turn to a loss in the quarter?  Yes certainly I would say that the year-over-year kind of variance there was driven by both PMCC and e-cigarette but I would tell you that the Arizona test market given that that a lot of that investment occurred in the fourth quarter was certainly a driver.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And so would you then expect that division in 2014 just from your commentary to be down in profitability noting the investments that are making plus the volatility at PMCC?  Yes I think as we indicated in kind of the guidance paragraph we do expect to make incremental investments in the e-vapor business in 2014 compared to 2013.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question on new products and we had a pretty slow process around the substantial equivalence approval you got from the FDA and so I just was curious for Philip Morris USA.
You had a good bit of activity new productivity in that division.
The longer this takes for SE applications is it putting the division at more of a disadvantage going forward which – do you have less than the half or if you will and you need more sort of activity from FDA on SE application? We’re actually in pretty good shape I would tell you and we continue to interact with the FDA regularly about our SE applications.
So I think well everyone would like to see more outcomes from the Agency I think we’re in pretty good shape Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And if I could ask one follow-up which is just – you characterize the inventory change in the fourth quarter.
If you said I didn’t hear because you characterize the inventory levels.
Are you at the right levels you were or at where you were a year ago with the fourth quarter given that change that occurred in the quarter? Well the inventory levels of cigarettes ended the quarter lower in 2013 than it did a year ago what we were trying to phase it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for talking.
Our final question comes from the line Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Wanted to see if you could talk a little bit about the smokeless category it looks like your reported volume was down through the quarter and through the year but I didn’t hear you talk about with some adjustments.
Shipment volume you estimate actually grew about 5%.
Right.
Can you help us reconcile the difference there? Sure.
The principal difference was I think in both the fourth quarter and in 2013 there was one fewer shipping day and in the smokeless business it had to be a Monday when a lot of the volume goes out.
So it’s roughly equivalent to a shipping week and that basically explains it few other factors but it’s basically that movement.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus for closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Just a reminder Altria will present at CAGNY and the presentation will be webcast.
Thank you again.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2014 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and the question-and-answer session.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
[Operator Instructions] Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria’s CFO to talk about Altria’s results for the first quarter of 2014.
During our call today unless otherwise stated results are being compared to the same period in 2013.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our first quarter results.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release on our website at altria.com.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projection of future results.
And we direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today’s earnings release to review various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with the U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which exclude items that affects the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings press release and are available on our website.
Now I will turn the call over to Marty.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Altria continued to make excellent progress against its key strategies in the first quarter of 2014.
Our maximizing our core premium tobacco businesses over the long-term and making disciplined investments to grow new income streams with innovative products.
Altria grew 2014 first quarter adjusted diluted EPS by 5.6% behind the strong performance from our smokeless product segment and growth in our smokeless product segment.
Lower financing costs also contributed to adjusted diluted EPS growth in the quarter.
So we’re off to a good start against our full year objectives.
Here are the highlights from the quarter.
Our smokeless products segment continued to deliver against its strategy of maximizing income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro over time.
The segment produced strong adjusted operating company’s income growth of 6.4% and expanded its adjusted operating company’s income margin primarily through higher pricing.
PM USA’s 2014 first quarter reported shipment volume decreased 2.5% primarily due to the industries decline partially offset by changes in trade inventories and retail share gains.
PM USA’s income and volume performance benefited from modestly higher wholesale inventories compared to the same period last year though we expect inventory levels to moderate as we move through the year.
Marlboro continues to be strong at 43.8 share points larger than the next 10 brands combined.
PM USA successfully grew Marlboro’s retail share behind investments in the Marlboro architecture and grew its total share of the cigarette category driven by Marlboro and L&amp;M in the discount segment.
Turning to smokeless products the segment grew first quarter operating company’s income by 7.75% primarily through higher volume.
The segment also grew Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined volume and retail share behind another strong quarter for Copenhagen Long Cut Wintergreen which now has posted 14 consecutive quarters of retail share gains.
During the first quarter USSTC began implementing strategies to enhance Skoal’s equity and carefully manage Skoal Classic price gaps in select geographies.
These strategies including changes to Skoal’s promotional plan resulted in some retail inventory movements that negatively impacted USSTC’s first quarter shipment volume.
While these short-term dynamics also may impact the segments second quarter results USSTC’s strategy should strengthen the brand over the long-term and we’re encouraged by the early results.
This strong performance by our core tobacco businesses was partially offset by comparatively lower gains on asset sales at Philip Morris Capital Corporation and lower earnings from our equity investment in SABMiller primarily due to gains from common stock issuances in the first quarter of 2013.
Moving to innovator products Nu Mark continues to make excellent progress against its long-term goal of achieving e-vapor leadership.
The company is on track to begin its rolling national launch of MarkTen in June.
And earlier this month Nu Mark completed its acquisition of Green Smoke adding significant e-vapor experience broadening Nu Mark’s product offerings and strengthening its supply chain capabilities.
We’re happy to welcome Green Smoke’s talented employees to our team.
And of course Altria continues to focus on returning large amounts of cash to shareholders.
During the first quarter Altria paid $957 million in dividends and purchased shares valued at approximately $272 million.
So to start off we’re pleased with our first quarter performance and we’re continuing to focus on our key strategies strong consistent results for the long-term.
Altria reaffirms its guidance for 2014 full year adjusted diluted EPS to be in a range of $2.52 to $2.59 representing a growth rate of 6% to 9% from an adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.38 in 2013.
We expect stronger adjusted diluted EPS growth in the second half of the year compared to the first half driven by various factors including lower fourth quarter costs in the smokable products segment due to the end of the quota by our payments and a significantly lower fourth quarter tax rate compared to the year-ago period resulting from our 2013 debt tender offer.
I’ll turn things over to Howard who will discuss Altria’s business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty good morning everyone.
As Marty mentioned our smokable products segment delivered strong first quarter results.
The segment grew adjusted operating company’s income by 6.4% to over $1.5 billion and expanded its adjusted operating company’s income margin by 2.2 percentage points to 44.1%.
Adjusted operating company’s income growth was primarily driven by higher pricing partially offset by lower volume.
The smokable product segments reported operating company’s income declined 20.3% primarily due to the NPM adjustment settlement in the first quarter of 2013 and lower volume partially offset by higher pricing.
After adjusting for changes in trade inventories PM USA estimates that its first quarter domestic cigarette shipment volume declined approximately 3.5% less than the category decline rate which PM USA estimates was about 4%.
PM USA grew Marlboro’s wealth share by 2/10s of a percentage point to 43.8% and increased its total category retail share by 2/10s of a percentage point behind gains from Marlboro and L&amp;M in the discount segment.
These gains were partially offset by share losses on other portfolio brands.
In cigars Middleton grew Black &amp; Mild’s first quarter retail share by 3/10s of a percentage point.
Our shipment volume was essentially flat.
Our smokeless product segment grew operating company’s income by 7.7% to almost $240 million driven by the higher volume and higher pricing partially offset by increased promotional spending.
The segment also expanded its operating company’s income margin by 1.1 percentage points to 62.1%.
USSTC and PM USA grew combined reported domestic smokeless products shipped volume by 5.9% in the first quarter primarily due to volume growth for Copenhagen partially offset by declines for Skoal.
The segments first quarter reported volume benefited from an extra shipping day it was partially offset by changes in trade inventories.
After adjusting for calendar differences and changes in trade inventories USSTC and PM USA estimate that their combined domestic smokeless product shipment volume increased approximately 4% for the quarter.
Our smokeless products category volume grew at approximately 5.5% over the last 12 months.
USSTC grew Copenhagen’s and Skoal’s combined first quarter volume by 6.3%.
USSTC also grew Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined retail share by 2/10’s of a percentage point to 50.8% driven by Copenhagen.
Turning to innovative products Nu Mark continues to use its two MarkTen e-cigarettes test markets to refine the brand value equation.
For example Nu Mark has experimented the different tools for creating awareness in trial in Arizona.
While brand shares continue to move over time as manufacturers change promotion levels.
MarkTen remain the leading e-vapor brand in Arizona during the first quarter.
Nu Mark’s test markets are providing valuable insights that we used to compete for category leadership over the long-term.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle grew first quarter operating company’s income by 10% primarily driven by improved premium mix.
Ste.
Michelle’s wine shipment volume increased 1.1% primarily driven by increased distribution of 14 Hands partially offset by changes in trade inventories.
That wraps up our operating results.
Marty and I will now take your questions while the calls are being compiled let me cover a few first quarter housekeeping items.
Marlboro’s price gap versus the lowest effective cigarette was 33%.
Marlboro’s net pack price was $5.91 up from $5.80 in the first quarter of 2013.
The lowest effective price cigarette was $4.43 up $0.10 from the first quarter of 2013.
The cigarette discount segment’s retail share was 25.1% down from 25.5% in the first quarter of 2013.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the first quarter was $1.48 per pack up $0.06 cents from the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Copenhagen’s price gap versus the leading discount brand was 32%.
Copenhagen’s retail price was $4.09 dollars up from $4.07 in the first quarter of 2013.
The price of the leading discount brand was $3.10 up $0.11 from the first quarter of 2013.
CapEx was $27 million and ongoing depreciation and amortization was $50 million.
Operator do we have any questions?  [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Couple of questions please.
And firstly I was just wondering if you’ve got any comment on the pending deeming regulation announcement it’s been in news article this morning and how you expect this to impact both your e-cigarette and cigar growth.
And then secondly obviously you had a very strong margin performance in the quarter particularly in smokeless.
I was just wondering what was driving this and how we can expect margins to play out into the rest of the year and ignoring fourth quarter release from the tobacco file closure.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling in.
I don’t have a comment on the deeming because I haven’t read them yet.
I guess the release – even as we’re on the call here so I’ve read only the press reports this morning and I’d like to read them before I comment on them.
With respect to margins you’re right to point out that we did have good margin performance we had a growth in smokeless growth in the smokeless and that’s all consistent with our strategies in the core tobacco business which is to grow our income in smokeless maximize our income in the smokeless segment.
And then to grow our income to volume growth in smokeless so I don’t know how you want to say more a quarter – No I might think I think certainly in the first quarter we had 3.8% revenue growth for tax basis in smokeless.
And that was a strong driver in the first quarter.
And I think you said it’s consistent with our strategy maximizing profitability.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Marty two things I wanted to ask you first the comment about faster second-half earnings-per-share growth and the alluding to the absent of the quarter buyout costs in the fourth quarter.
That obviously only flatters your profitability if the pricing would have more or less be as it would have been otherwise.
In other words do you or the industry collectively promote that away it wouldn’t have that benefit.
So implicating what you’re saying about the outlook for the fourth quarter is it your intent and hope to capture at least some of that net cost reduction benefit? Well I think it’s consistent with what we said before when we talked about quarter which is if you’re trying to maximize your income in the smokeless segment you obviously want to take every opportunity you can to do that and that’s how we’re thinking about that.
Okay and then that’s a good takeaway to my second question which is to talk about pricing and your attitude and approach to pricing and the smokeless business Marty because the positive during the quarter last year profits have been growing 7% that’s not shabby but the really hasn’t been any net pricing in the last couple years.
I mean do aspire to get to a point and a place where you can add to volume growth with net pricing.
And what’s holding it back is it the is it the performance of Skoal is it the competitive environment and discount brands etcetera.
Yeah sure let’s go back.
What I’d say first of all is remember for us and our smokeless business we have margins above 62%.
So of course you can always have a better net pricing realization but in the category that has margins like that and that were the category is growing.
We can grow our income very nicely and remember what we’re trying to do there is is to grow that income off of the volume in line with the category growth and then to have modest share momentum on Copenhagen and Skoal.
So that’s the approach and I think in CAGNY we did a fairly good job I think of laying out how that’s played out over the last five years since we got the business and whether it’s on volume growth or income growth we’ve really grown these business very nicely.
Copenhagen of course has taken off well and we’re now working on Skoal.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions.
First is on I’m just its kind of interesting how the weather was so disastrous in the US weeks of January and February and this earning season broadly speaking companies really haven’t seen any impact.
So I’m just curious on your kind of state of union on the consumer is the consumer stronger than we’ll thought? As we started off the year and then the second question is now that the Green Smoke acquisition is closed curious on if you plan on kind of launching it nationally in conjunction with MarkTen so you have kind of two two different blends in the marketplace to try capture as much growth as you can.
Look with respect to the whether we could see some disruptions from time-to-time but actually it didn’t really translate into a drag on other operating or our financial performance.
With respect to the adult tobacco consumer I don’t think that our view has changed since last we spoke about this.
Given the unemployment and the underemployment rates and labor participation rates in the like and consumer confidence still being better but nowhere where it needs to be.
We’re hopeful that things are going to improve but our operating plans from 14 assume that the adult tobacco consumers going to be cautious as was in ‘13.
Good question about Green Smoke we closed on Green Smoke and we’re working now we have our integration teams working on supply chain and marketing and the like.
Our launch though nationally will be focused on MarkTen and then obviously Green Smoke has retail opportunities in the US and we’ll be working on that but that’s not a part of the national plan.
And Marty one just follow-up to that.
It strikes to me that the innovation cycles and the e-cig category are much more rapid obviously when the traditional cigarette and tobacco businesses.
What is Altria doing just from a capability standpoint to kind of prepare for so it’s kind of a faster innovation timeline? It seems like most companies are struggling right now they have the next generation of products but they can’t launch them because they still have their existing products in the marketplace.
I was just curious on your view? Yeah that’s another good question.
We actually started back on this Nick a couple of years ago to really improve our innovation system as a whole.
We thought that we had opportunities to get faster to develop better consumer insights and to more rapidly turn them into products to satisfy their needs.
So we’ve actually been after this not just on e-cigarettes but on all of our business just for about two years now.
We’ve made significant improvements I’d like to think in the system itself.
And then with respect to e-vapor you’re right to point out that the learning cycles are shorter.
And so we were working very hard on our consumer insight system in our market reach systems to make sure that those systems are adjusted to give us quicker reads on what’s happening with the consumer and in the marketplace.
And we’re using lots of techniques like ethnography and other techniques to make sure we’re staying close to that consumer because they’re moving around a bit.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
So my first question is just really trying to better understand your investment spending behind the Nu Mark and MarkTen specifically just looking at the all others segment with a loss of $1 million it’s actually a little bit better sequentially from the fourth quarter.
So trying to strip out what would PMCC versus your investment on Nu Mark.
And then as you prepare for the national launch in June we see a step up in terms of the spending particularly in the second quarter there.
So just kind of any help on your thoughts on the investment spending there? Sure Judy this is Howard.
I think as you look at the year-over-year comparisons in the other segments I think first quarter reflects what we’ve said during the course of the year which is we’ve had unfavorable comparisons year-over-year on PMCC.
And we’ve also increase our investment related to Nu Mark and I think as we move into the second quarter you’re going to continue to see trends of us continuing to invest in Nu Mark as we ramp after that national launch in June.
If I can follow from that Howard because just in terms of thinking about items there’s a lot of moving parts below the line.
So if you can just help us understand just in terms of the interest expense because you did see a big drop off and if we just pick the run rate for Q1 it’s a pretty meaningful decline in terms of the interest expenses.
And then just in terms of the SAB Miller seems like that’s coming in on a year-over-year basis more of a drag in terms of your guidance.
So any help you can provide us in terms of Q1 below the line and then how we should think about that for the rest of the year? Certainly I refer back to our annual guidance and I think you are right that this is going to be a bit of a unique year in that as the quarters unfold you might have different trends in the quarters then that are reflected in the total year performance.
And certainly that’s reflected in the first quarter related to SAB Miller.
IN SAB Miller we actually had unfavorable year-over-year trend although that was really driven by the fact that SAB Miller issued more stock in the first quarter of last year than they did in the first quarter of this year that has a negative impact on our earnings.
If you actually looked at the performance excluding that SAB Miller had a growth in the quarter.
So I think that certainly was a unique impact in the first quarter with regard to SAB Miller.
We’ve already communicated that on an annual basis because of the strong asset sales in the past from PMCC if those slowdown there’s going to be an unfavorable impact.
But then of course below the operating company’s income line there were number of favorability for the year.
And you started to see the interest decline in the first quarter with certainly benefited earnings and that’ll continue to unfold through the year.
You also see it in our cash rates on adjusted income basis has come down in the quarter.
And that is going to be reflected through the total year.
And then of course there’s an impact on EPS growth from our share repurchase program.
So there were certainly a number of positives in the quarter including a strong performance on the smokeless segment but that is being offset by SAB Miller by PMCC and some investments in Nu Mark.
Although ultimately resulting that we thought was a nice 5.6% EPS growth for the quarter.
Is the run rate for the interest expense for the year a 2-1 run rate it should be what we should be using? Yeah I don’t know that you can just take an annualized in first quarter because there were a number of different things that happened last year.
But certainly you should expect to see a nice favorable interest impact for the total year just like we had a nice favorable interest impact in the first quarter.
Okay and then Marty I just wanted to go back to sort of the cigarette industry consumption question.
And the question just really is more just thinking about the longer-term run rate because clearly you have smokeless and some of these other tobacco products that have grown pretty nicely and also just thinking about your MarkTen launch in a couple of test markets.
What do you see in terms of substitutability and kind of the trade-off you’re seeing on cigarette consumption versus e-cigarettes? So is it really the decline for cigarette consumption even if we come out of the economy in the more challenging economic conditions is the decline really going to accelerated just because all these other tobacco products really grow at a faster pace? That question comes up a lot but there’s no reason to think that right now.
We don’t predict to the consumption decline rate going forward but we do look at a number of factors as you know.
And what have we seen is that over the last several years it’s really been 3% to 4% and that’s been through periods when there have been other products that come into the marketplace.
E-cigarettes I would argue being just among the last so is it possible that it could speed up or head the other way I suppose anything is possible.
But when we look at the data and we look at it pretty carefully to see if there are any new drivers that would change what the historical rate has been at least right now Judy we don’t see that.
Our model as is to use an estimate of secular decline of call it 2% to 3% in that neighborhood and embedded in that in our model are people who are trying other products or even indeed migrating to other products.
And that seems like that plus the historical price elasticity still seems to do a pretty good job of explaining the decline rate.
And the test markets that you’ve launched MarkTen any difference that you’re noticing in terms of the cigarette consumption behavior? But that’s pretty early there with respect to the test markets to be reading that.
Okay thank you.
Judy thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Hi I have a two part question on Marlboro.
First could you drill down further on what drove the share gains and then how much of the gains were driven by your relatively new line extensions or has your core Marlboro improved and contributed to the gains.
And then second I’d be curious to hear from you how you’re going to balance keeping your eye on your core Marlboro brand and then innovation behind the brand while also focusing on driving innovation e-cigs.
I know you touched on this a little bit but just wanted to hear from you how you think about the targets for the businesses? Sure let me start with Marlboro.
I think the answer to Marlboro lies in the main in the implementation of the Marlboro architecture which is itself a terrific example of innovation in the business.
So you know the story behind the Marlboro architecture I won’t repeat it but what we see there is that by employing it we’ve been able to reach out in different ways to adult smokers.
You take Marlboro Black which is doing extremely well and then really the Marlboro architecture along with innovation say on Marlboro.com the age restricted website and you’ll like has really helped Marlboro grow in the way that it wants to grow.
I would also say if you look at Marlboro’s historical share growth it’s completely consistent with that.
So I think that’s the answer on Marlboro and so far we’ve been able to execute our strategy well I think of maximizing income while keeping Marlboro on a good momentum pad.
The way we describe the answer to your question about how can you focus on your core business while also paying attention to innovation is almost exactly like that.
We call it maximizing the core business while innovating through the future.
And our organization is filled with enough talented people and we have enough resources to develop that.
I just don’t accept the notion that the world is so binary as you have to do one of the other.
And I think that you’ve been able to see that recently.
We continue to maximize the income that comes out of our core tobacco businesses at the same time we’ve entered e-vapor space.
We created our own product.
We’ve been into test markets we’ve done a transaction with PMI to hopefully sell those products internationally.
And now we’ve done a very nice tack on acquisition to improve our capability in such things as the supply chain and entrepreneurial culture.
And you know what I’m very proud of the organization.
We have really I think done quite a good job of describing this to our people and where we’re going and how we’re going to get there.
And I am very proud of the work that’s been done in that regard.
Okay that’s helpful looking at other companies.
Historically a lot of times they feel as they they start to chase growth and maybe lose focus on the core so I think it’s just something to make sure you guys are paying attention to that was very helpful.
And then my question is a little bit of a follow on in terms of your approach to building your e-cig business.
You did mention you’re going to make disciplined investments.
So I’m curious to hear how willing you are to let this business be a drag on your earnings or how should we think about this in the next couple of years in terms of the potential impact on earnings? Well we think about it is through our mission.
And our mission is to satisfy adult tobacco consumers.
And if adult tobacco consumers want to move to innovative products like e-vapor probably won’t be the last by the way there’ll be other products that they want to try.
Particularly those that may hold out the promise for less harm if the FDA were to approve them.
I think it’s the wrong approach to try to run the business in a way to hold that back.
We’re in the job of satisfying our adult tobacco consumers.
And we’re going to have products for them that are premium and then have margin and they done responsibly.
And that’s how we think about it.
And so it’s about understanding your consumer and trying to give them what they want.
All the while of course paying attention in keeping the word discipline is important.
And we use that word deliberately so that we keep our eye on our core businesses.
I think this is Howard.
I do think we remain committed to our long-term EPS growth of 7% to 9% and continuing to return a large amount of cash to shareholders 80% payout ratio.
And as we see it now we think the different levers we have to pull and the strength of our business platform auto allow us to make the appropriate investments and stay consistent with our long-term strategy.
Alright very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Gowe of Stifel.
I just had two questions for you if I could.
First would be asking before about you’ve got a pretty healthy stream of new products while the industry’s been a little – to little slower just due to the FDA approvals.
And we had more of those theoretically coming off from the FDA.
So maybe from what your portfolio in addition of new products but do you expect to see an increased activity with these new FDA approvals coming out over the next few months? I suppose so I mean they have seen that FDA issued new performance metrics about how it’s going to try to turn FET’s faster beginning with fiscal year 2015 and they had some increase from various people about the time that’s taken of FET so I can only talk about ours of course but we remain I think with a very healthy portfolio.
Ultimately of course that’s the way the industry’s is going to work.
The FDA is going to have to look at new products and approval.
And then just a question in relation to taxes there’s obviously an FET proposal for this year.
I just want to get a sense of what you’re expecting at this early stage of the year for bit of sales tax increases for the year do you see this year a larger than average volume this year? Well I hope no and we’ve working very hard to make that not happen with many others.
So far be activity Chris has been very active in terms of proposals but actually fairly modest in terms of passage.
So we don’t have any FETs to memory that had passed so far this year although there have been lots of proposals.
And there remain proposals in the state houses so our government authority is hard to have that.
The FET is still hanging around out there although it is not seen at this moment in time anyway to have gain to lot of traction.
Okay and just if I could ask one quick one maybe to Howard in relation to share repurchase activity you have some are you able to renew since the third quarter but my calculation you got a lot of free cash flow as well still coming through this year so are there any other unusual need for that cash that maybe keeping from being a little more aggressive the share repurchase activity this year.
Well I think you’re right to point out this on the current program we are coming towards the end of it.
We got about $187 million left and our normal practice has been that most of the cash returned to shareholders come through our 80% dividend payout ratio but opportunistically we’ll do some share repurchase.
So additional share repurchase is sure to be a discussion topic here over the next several months.
And I think with regard to incremental cash needs going forward I don’t think we see that there are dramatically different incremental needs going forward than we’ve had over the last year.
So certainly use of cash for something we’ll be looking at over the next few months.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
I guess the most conspicuously Epsilon is in the mention of those competitive impact from new product launches in your largest non-menthol non-full flavor segment.
Can you just give a little color there you’ve gained share and since 3Q your price mix seems to have accelerated.
How does that look I mean obviously you’re getting on just time can you give a sense of kind of what you’re seeing in the market you’re in? I think PM USA; the short answer is PM USA’s have done a heck of a good job of managing its plans.
We say this at the beginning of the year; it’s a good reminder to us actually.
When we do our planning we take everything into account including the fact that competitors will launch products from time-to-time.
And so we don’t disclose how we think about that or the actions that PM USA takes to protect its franchise.
But you’re right to point out I think that the metrics of its performance in the face of that and other challenges really speaks to the strength of the PM USA franchise.
Okay that’s fair and then just looking back at PMCC versus about three years ago your asset balance there is less than half what it was.
And certainly if you had asset the sale run rate that you did over the last few years that business would entirely go away in two and a half or so years.
But I realized there are some assets that don’t make sense to sell for any of a combination of reasons.
And there’s probably a little bit of a long tail.
Just looking ahead can you give us a sense of what you expect in terms of the split in that segment it’s income between sales and just ongoing operations? Are there still sales that makes sense to do are they going to be sporadic or few and far between.
Can you just give some color on kind of how the outlook is there? Sure.
I think you’ve accessed PMCC about right which is our goal really has been to rapidly unwind that business but to do it in a way that is maximizing the profit and cash flow that Altria gets from it.
And so we’re pleased to see that we’re down to a net finance receivable of only about $2 billion down quite significantly.
Frankly our goal with an eye towards still having an appropriate earnings impact and cash flow impact is to unwind that business as quickly as possible because we think that our focus really is elsewhere at this time.
I would say that we’ve had quite strong asset sales over the last couple of years.
I would expect to see those asset sales continue but at a lower rate.
And that’s really what our belief is and I think that what results from that is the results we’ll continue to get an income contribution from that business the year-over-year comparisons.
Certainly for this year are likely to be unfavorable and it’s going to be lumpy in any given quarter.
You’re going to see part of the variance in that quarter driven by what goes on at PMCC.
I think the good news is as you’ve pointed out the business is a much smaller part of Altria now.
And I think its impact is going to diminish greatly here over the next year or two.
That’s helpful.
And then just lastly this is me picking your wording a little that you mentioned in your release closing the Green Smoke deal and its affiliates does it have any notable affiliates or like maybe a vaporizer business or anything that you might be looking at that’s interesting or is that just sort of terminology that doesn’t really –? We just meant to describe that there was more than one company in that family but the business is exactly as we described it before.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you at this time I’d now like to turn the call over to Miss Sarah Knakmus for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
And welcome to the Altria Group 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus Vice President of Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria’s CFO to talk about Altria’s 2014 business results for the second quarter and the first half.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we are comparing results to the same period in 2013.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our second quarter results.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release on our website at altria.com.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projection of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today’s earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which exclude items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings release and are available on our website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
In the first half of 2014 Altria delivered adjusted diluted EPS growth of 5.2% and we made good progress against our full year plans.
Our company’s leading premium brands and the strength of our diverse business model continue to deliver value for shareholders.
Here are the highlights for the second quarter and first half of 2014.
The smokable product segment delivered adjusted operating company’s income growth of 3.6% in the second quarter and 4.9% in the first half while maintaining modest retail share growth on Marlboro.
In the second quarter Marlboro achieved excellent retail share of 44 points up 0.3 from last year.
For the first half Marlboro share grew 0.1 to 43.8 share points.
Adjusted operating company’s income margins also increased both in the quarter and the first half with pricing as a key driver.
So year-to-date the smokable product segments performance has been strong.
In smokeless in the first half of 2014 USSTC focused on strengthening the Skoal value equation in part by better managing price gaps on Skoal Classic.
On a sequential basis Skoal’s retail share was unchanged versus the first quarter.
Copenhagen and Skoal delivered second quarter retail share of 51.1 share points up 0.4 from last year and the highest combined share since we acquired UST.
For the first half Copenhagen and Skoal delivered combined retail share of 51 points an increase of 0.3.
Operating company’s income grew by 5.6% in the second quarter and 6.5% in the first half while operating company’s income margins expanded to 66.6% and 64.5% respectively.
Our smokeless business continues to perform well in the competitive environment in line with it strategies.
Turning to innovative products Nu Mark began the national expansion of MarkTen e-vapor products in June in the Western half of the U.S.
MarkTen achieved strong distribution in over 60 000 stores.
These stores account for more than 70% of cigarette industry volume in the Western U.S.
where MarkTen is distributed.
Nu Mark is also making good progress integrating green smoke into its business starting with a well-established supply chain that green smoke adds to Nu Mark.
Altria continued to reward shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Altria paid shareholders almost $1 billion in dividends in the quarter and nearly $2 billion in the first half.
As of July 18th our annualized dividend yield of 4.6% surpassed the S&amp;P 500 yield of 2% and the 10-year treasury yield of 2.5%.
We expect to return a target payout of 80% of adjusted diluted EPS in the form of dividends.
In the second quarter Altria repurchased $132 million of its common stock at an average price of $40.72.
We expect to complete our current $1 billion share repurchase program by the end of the third quarter of 2014.
Further Altria's Board recently authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program to enhance shareholder value.
We expect to complete this new program by the end of 2015.
Timing of share repurchases depends on marketplace conditions and other factors and of course dividends and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of our Board.
Based on our results so far and expectations for the remainder of 2014 we are narrowing guidance for both adjusted and reported diluted EPS.
We now expect to deliver adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7% to 9% in a range of $2.54 to $2.59 off an adjusted base of $2.38 per share in 2013.
We also expect to achieve full-year reported diluted EPS in the range of $2.54 to $2.59.
We expect stronger adjusted diluted EPS growth in the second half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter driven by various factors including lower fourth quarter costs in the smokable products segment due to the end of the quota by our payments and a significantly lower fourth quarter effective tax rate compared to the year ago period resulting from our 2013 debt tender offer.
So in all we are pleased with the progress we're making against our strategies and financial goals and the momentum we are carrying into the second half of the year.
Howard will now provide additional details on the quarter and the first six months.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Altria grew second quarter adjusted diluted EPS by 4.8% primarily driven by higher adjusted operating company’s income in the smokable and smokeless products segments lower interest and other debt expense and fewer shares outstanding.
These factors were partially offset by the investments we're making in innovative products and comparatively lower operating company’s income in the financial services business.
As Marty mentioned the smokable product segments adjusted operating company’s income grew 3.6% to $1.8 billion in the second quarter and 4.9% to $3.3 billion in the first half.
In both periods higher pricing was the driver partially offset by lower cigarettes shipment volume.
As anticipated in the second quarter the trade reduced inventory levels they build during the first quarter after adjusting for trade inventory fluctuation and other factors PM USA estimates that it’s second quarter and first half cigarette shipment volume declined approximately 4% and that industry volume declined approximately 4.5% for both periods.
PM USA grew total retail share by 0.3 to 51 share points in the second quarter and 0.2 to 50.8 share points in the first half of 2014.
In addition to Marlboro’s strong retail share L&amp;M continued to grow retail share despite declines in the industry's discount share.
John Middleton also contributed to our solid first half smokable segment results.
Middleton cigars shipment volume increased 11.1% in the second quarter and 6% for the first six months supported by Black &amp; Mild in the tipped segment and the expansion of Royal Comfort in the untipped segment.
While the competitive environment remains challenging Black &amp; Mild’s retail share was essentially flat for the first half of the year.
In smokeless operating company’s income increased 5.6% to $285 million in the second quarter and 6.5% to $524 million for the first half of 2014.
Through the second quarter USSTC and PM USA achieved 55.1 share of the category benefiting in part by continued momentum on Copenhagen Long Cut Wintergreen.
Changes to Skoal's promotional strategy resulted in trade inventory shifts that negatively affected smokeless shipment volume in the first half of the year.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and calendar differences USSTC and PM USA estimate that their smokeless product shipment volume grew 3.5% in both the second quarter and the first half and the smokeless category volume grew approximately 4.5% over the past 12 months.
In the wine segment operating company’s income was up 12% in the second quarter and 11.1% in the first half of 2014.
Shipment increased 1.9% in the quarter and 1.5% in the first half.
In both the quarter and the half strong volume performance by Chateau Ste.
Michelle and 14 Hands was mostly offset by lower shipments of Columbia Crest and other brands.
That wraps up our operating results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled let me cover a few second quarter housekeeping items.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 33%.
Marlboro’s net pack price was $5.93 up $0.15 from the second quarter of 2013.
The lowest effective price cigarette was $4.47 up $0.17 from the second quarter of 2013.
The cigarette discount segment retail share was 24.8% down from 25.2% in the second quarter of 2013.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax at the end of the second quarter was $1.48 per pack up $0.06 from the end of the second quarter of 2013.
Wholesale inventory changes are one factor.
PM USA uses to estimate adjusted PM USA and industry volumes.
PM USA estimates that for 2014 wholesale inventories were approximately 2.1 billion units at the end of the second quarter and 2.5 billion units at the end of the first quarter.
Last year PM USA's wholesale inventories were estimated be approximately 2.2 billion units at the end of the second quarter and 2.3 million units at the end of the first quarter.
PM USA estimates that for 2014 cigarette industry wholesale inventory levels were 4.8 billion units at the end of the second quarter and 5.5 billion units at the end of the first quarter.
Last year we estimate that wholesale inventory levels were 5.6 billion units at the end of both the second and first quarter.
Copenhagen's price gap versus the leading discount brand was 31%.
Copenhagen's retail price was $4.10 up $0.06 from the second quarter of 2013.
The price of the leading discount brand was $3.12 up $0.14 from the second quarter of 2013.
CapEx was $33 million and ongoing depreciation and amortization was $50 million.
For the first half CapEx was $60 million and ongoing depreciation and amortization was a $100 million.
Operator do we have any questions? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Good morning.
Good morning Michael.
I wanted to just actually talk about a hypothetical a little bit and just in terms of looking at SAB and if somebody were interested in trying to buying that asset.
Can you just help us understand a couple of things? One first in the mechanics is it right to assume that every shareholder yourself included would be treated the same so that for instance you couldn't get shares and somebody else cash? And then especially if a cash deal is sort of the proposal how do you think about what would make it interesting for you in terms of -- do you just look at accretion is it -- measure economic profit differences or how do you think about the valuation creation or potentially dilution that comes with that? Sure.
This is Howard.
I think any acquisition is going to be governed by U.K.
Takeover law which has a number of protections in place to try and ensure that the shareholders are treated fairly.
And so I think at the highest level that would certainly govern the transaction.
I think with regard to a cash deal I think we would evaluate that the way we would any potential transaction for SAB and we would evaluate it through the eyes of the Altria shareholder and determine whether or not we thought that provided significant enough incremental value to warrant giving up the strong performance that we’ve gotten on an ongoing basis from SABMiller.
And I think that we would vote our shares based on that view.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
And then just one last question smokeless at least I think I do it on kind of the servings equivalent which is loose but it’s around 7% of your volumes and 14% of EBIT.
Certainly those margins are fantastic.
E-cigarettes are sort of getting all the attention on the margins these days but with two very different margin profiles in those businesses and of course different potential long-term opportunities.
How do you think about allocating resources or making those investments in terms of if those compete for resources with each other at all? Yeah that’s a good question.
I mean we allocate resources obviously based on the core businesses that we have today mentioned one which is smokeless of course we have smokable and wine and we obviously have strength in our core businesses.
They are terrific businesses with leading positions great shares great margins and so forth and so on.
With respect to innovative products the way that we’re going about that Michael is to have a disciplined approach to innovating our way forward.
You saw that for example about the way we handle test markets in Indiana and Arizona before we determine to do a national launch.
So it's a little early.
As everyone keeps saying to know about margins in the e-vapor business but we’re focused on the adult tobacco consumer and if they're interested in these kind of innovative products we want to make sure that we’re developing positions there.
And in any category which emerges we intend to be the market leader.
That’s great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Judy.
Marty obviously we have the major announcement last week which if the deal does go through potentially changes the competitive landscape with two of your competitors getting bigger and then obviously Imperial getting bigger in the U.S.
market as well.
So just wanted to get your thoughts on what you think the competitive implications might be and how you are thinking about your strategy going forward in maybe a different competitive environment.
Well thank you for your question.
As I am sure you can understand I am not going to comment on a transaction that’s been proposed by others.
I think the questions here are best directed to them.
But I can tell you that at Altria we’re the market leader today we would be a market leader after any transaction has been proposed.
We are really focused on maintaining our market leadership that’s what we told our organization and that’s how we’re thinking about.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then maybe just in terms of the cigarette industry trends Marty.
I guess this year the industry declining of sort of 4.5% probably a little bit worse than what we’ve seen and then maybe the pricing at the same time though is getting better.
So is that how you kind of characterize the environment maybe the overall volume is a little bit softer but the industry is getting actually pretty healthy pricing and the competitive dynamics are a little bit more rational and that’s kind of the balance that we’re seeing at this point? Yeah.
So let’s talk about those in turn.
Good questions both.
The volume our estimate of course is 4.5%.
I would counsel folks not to over read one estimate in one quarter.
If you go back and you look at the historical line rates say for the last three years actually you see an average rate over that period of about 3.5% and it’s been as high as 4 it’s been as low as 3.
So they bounce around a little bit which is why we always say and believe that we should read them over time.
So it is higher at 4 5 but I wouldn’t over read again one estimate.
Certainly PM USA had very nice pricing realization.
In fact it’s having quite a strong first half.
Its income is up nearly 5%.
Its margin is growing.
Price realization is strong.
So I would tell you that at least from our perspective I think what PM USA is doing is spot on strategy.
We are trying to maximize the income.
We are trying to keep modest share momentum on Marlboro and I think that the dials that they have been at PM USA in the first half have really worked very very well.
Okay.
And lastly Howard just in terms of your guidance change the low end's coming up by $0.02 what’s driving that change? I think probably the biggest driver of that is the performance we’ve had in the first half.
We feel like we’ve had a good performance in the first half.
Our strategies have been progressing quite nicely.
And frankly the risk of anything upsetting those strategies in the first half has kind of passed now and so we feel like we’re in a position to kind of narrow the range that we think we can hit for the year.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Judy thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Hello Owen are you there? It seems that line has disconnected.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Hello David are you there? Operator could we check our connections please to make sure people are in the queue? Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi good morning.
Hi Vivien.
My first question has to do with Marlboro.
Clearly the share momentum is good with share gains accelerating sequentially into the second quarter.
I know you guys don't comment on kind of specific lines of the Marlboro brand family that drive outside performance.
But if you could offer any color at all in terms of the share gains that would be helpful.
You are right Vivien we don’t offer specific insights into the lines of the Marlboro business.
But sure I think that what you see is that the Marlboro franchise overall is performing very well.
Since we put in the Marlboro architecture and in particular with the new platform of Marlboro Black which has been quite successful what you see is that Marlboro really has continued to perform very well.
I think that speaks to the strength of the architecture.
It’s a big brand and we have now opened it up I think to the possibilities that it has in terms of marketing slightly different lead to different segments within the franchise attracting competitive smokers while all the time being faithful to Marlboro’s positioning.
And I think that’s what we’re seeing play out in the marketplace.
Fair enough.
Very early days on MarkTen to be sure but any kind of initial color that you would like to offer in the first month of the national expansion? Well we’re pretty encouraged.
It is early but we have achieved strong distribution.
It’s now in 60 000 stores which is quite a lot in a short period of time.
It’s been enthusiastically received by the trend Vivien.
And as you know we have a lot of confidence in that product.
So we’re very very pleased to be able to roll this out nationally and really moving eastward as the year goes on.
But we’re off to a good start is what I would say.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And last thing I know you guys weren't a party to the lawsuit against TPSAC and the resolution that was announced yesterday.
But do you have any comment on how you think that might impact the FDA's view of menthol and the science as they publish their report? I haven’t read it yet.
I just saw the press reports but I would say that the press reports are consistent with the position that our regulated companies took with the FDA really for the last four years.
Our position was composition of the TPSAC was flawed by appointment of people that had conflicts of interest.
We thought it was inconsistent with the statute and we have been calling on FDA as you know if you look at the filings that are available on our website consistently to try to correct that.
So I'm sure that we’re trying to be a constructive partner at FDA but it's important for the integrity of the system that everybody play by the rules.
So I'm sure FDA is assessing what it will do.
And I haven't seen anything from them yet this morning.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
I have a follow-on question on MarkTen.
So you mentioned you have distribution over 60 000 retail points since you began the national rollout.
So how quickly do you anticipate getting to full distribution? And then it seems like the focus right now is expanding the distribution.
So I’d like to hear how big of a priority technology and innovation are for you? Good question.
So our plan as we described previously is to have a rolling launch.
We started that in June in the 25 states in the western part of the country.
Obviously as you’re building a new brand and you’re building capacity you want to roll this out.
Overtime you want to be cognizant of having product in the store so the people could get it no out of stocks and the like.
So we will be rolling eastward as we go through the summer and into the fall and that's how we’re thinking about the distribution.
Distribution is important but it's not the only thing and you’ve touched on a couple of others obviously.
I continue to be very encouraged by the product development pipeline I see out of Nu Mark in e-vapor space.
So as everyone knows I know and many have written that the consumer continues to move around unsurprisingly in a new category about what they want out of these products.
And so we are hard at divining those consumer insights and having products available for them.
So while we’re excited about MarkTen I don't think it's last thing that anyone should expect either from us or others.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then I had a quick question on your SG&amp;A expense in the quarter.
It was up 21% year-over-year and was almost 14% of sales.
So I guess I am assuming this is primarily due to the rollout of MarkTen.
But could you talk about any other potential factors for this being high and then really how we should think about your SG&amp;A going forward? Hi Bonnie.
This is Howard.
Hi.
I think certainly one of the drivers in the quarter was as you pointed out the rollout of MarkTen.
Given that this was the quarter that we did the western launch that was an impact.
But I will also say to you that historically you’ve seen some movement quarter-to-quarter in the amount of SG&amp;A expense.
And we tend to budget that on a full-year basis.
So I think that you will get a better idea of the trend by looking at that on the full-year basis.
And I think well certainly the innovative product space is going to have an impact.
We continue to have quite a focus on reducing costs in the core and you should continue to see us focus quite sharply on that.
But that’s going to be probably reveal itself on a longer-term basis looking at annual term.
Okay.
And then if I may I just had one final question a little bit of a follow-up.
And given the expected changing industry dynamics maybe you could remind us of your priority in terms of how you are going to continue to strike the optimal balance between growing market share and defending your turf while trying to maximize profitability? Okay.
I’m not going to comment with regard to any proposed transactions but I will tell you I guess two things one that the smokeable segment remains the same.
We’re trying to maximize income while making sure that we have modest momentum on Marlboro.
That's been winning strategy for decades and that is not going to change.
The other thing I just would observe is that change is constant in business and we had Altria prepare for all scenarios.
And I think that's the way to think about it which is we’re prepared to compete today we’re prepared to compete tomorrow.
All right.
Thank you for that.
Thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Good morning.
Hi.
I just had two questions for you if I could.
I just wanted to get a little better sense around the fourth quarter expectations.
I think we have known all along it is going to be a pretty strong quarter for you with the MSA cost reductions and as well as the tax rate decline year-over-year.
I don't know if maybe Howard can give a little more color on the tax rate decline.
Is that still expected to be down? I think you used the word significant in the press release.
I want to get maybe a little more flavor for how much it could be.
But then just understand your thoughts on MSA cost savings and any change in your view given the competitive conditions in that category.
It looks like a lot of that could come to the bottom line? Sure.
I will ask Howard to comment on that for you Chris.
Sure.
I think we’ve communicated that our full year tax rate is expected to be about 35%.
And if you compare that to the back half of last year you’ll see that that’s significantly lower in the fourth quarter.
I think last years tax rate was a little in excess of 37%.
So that gives you an idea going from 37% to 35% that’s a pretty significant impact.
And then with regard to the FETRA payments discontinuing in the fourth quarter on an annual basis our FETRA payments had been about $400 million.
So on a quarter’s impact that would be estimated to be about a $100 million.
Okay.
And if I could ask a question and thanks in advance for the inventory information you gave today was very good.
I just want to get a sense of where you think the -- your inventory levels are and perhaps for the category are currently just a good kind of base case based on the numbers you have given.
So in that they are down a lot year-over-year in this -- for the industry is that considered a low level or is that a level that you think is pretty normalized going forward? If I would say at the end of the second quarter I mean the one thing to remember always is that they tend to wash themselves out over the year Chris.
So they do go in and out a little bit for the quarter but at least for PM USA the inventory levels tend to wash themselves out over the year.
The other thing to understand is as industry cigarette volume does come down over time you would expect for wholesale inventories to come down with them.
But I don't think there's anything particular to call out about ending inventories in the second quarter.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Thanks for calling.
Our next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Hi.
David I lost you there glad you called back? Okay.
Great.
Thanks Marty.
A couple of quick things for me.
First out of curiosity given the prospect of real competitive change amongst your competitors in the U.S.
cigarette market going into the prospect of that transaction closing or those transactions closing and then the subsequent aftermath.
Are there particular strategies to try to be opportunistic? Could there be some disruption that you have already planned for or even starting to implement? Guess what I would say David is what I said one or twice already this morning is that I'm not going to comment on the transaction that’s been proposed by others.
What we do at Altria is we focus on our business.
We’re the market leader today.
We have the leading positions to leading brands.
I think superior infrastructure.
I would expect for all of that to obtain.
It is true that the competitive environment changes and you take that when you said strategy and it will be unsurprising to you to know that Altria has examined lots of scenarios over time to examine how best we might compete.
So all that work has been done but I think it's both premature and inappropriate for me to say what those might be.
Okay.
Second question.
If Lorillard and Reynolds do combine as planned and are successful in achieving the cost synergies that they envision that combined company would have per pack controllable costs that are considerably lower than where PM USA's per pack costs are today.
That company would be smaller than you are and it would have a more diverse brand portfolio than you currently have.
And I am curious if they are successful in achieving that would that cause you to sort of take a fresh look at your overall cost structure? Do you think that that would indicate that there are further opportunities to make sizable cost reductions at PM USA? David I admire your persistence and I'm sure you'll appreciate my answer which is I’m not going to comment on the transaction by others.
But I would say this we look at our cost all the time.
And you’ve seen where PM USA is in terms of its controllable cost.
And I don't think anybody should have reason to think that we won’t continue to have that kind of focus on controlling our cost.
It’s part of the algorithm for growth.
Okay.
And then lastly a question about the -- during this quarter the price vertical was reinstated.
And I am curious as a result of that was there any change in the policy or the timing and the magnitude of intercompany cash cash flows from PM USA to Altria?  Hey David I really don’t think it had any impact.
I mean we continue to have a strategy to address the reinstatement of that verdict and we've been managing our businesses much the way we have over the last several quarters.
Okay.
Thank you.
David thanks for calling back in.
We now invite the media to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Michael Felberbaum of the Associated Press.
Good morning.
I’m curious as far as the MarkTen e-vapor product go.
How do you see Altria’s ability to become a market leader in that category when the company is kind of the last of the majors to enter the category on a national level? And what differentiates your product that will help that growth? Sure.
Thank you for your question.
I would say the following.
One is it’s very important to remember that the e-vapor category is just really beginning it's emerging and it’s very early days.
There is very little brand equity that has been built by anyone.
The products continue to change over time.
So I think the idea that the category somehow fully developed and we’re late to the game is not the right way to look at it in our view.
I would say the second thing that gives us confidence in our ability to move to market leadership in the e-vapor category is the fact that we are the market leader in every category in which we compete virtually.
So whether it’s cigarettes or smokeless or a wonderful wine company what we've done is we've built terrific brands with superior products and satisfied adults in a way to allow us to build our businesses.
So that's how we’re thinking about it.
This is a business we’re in.
These are the consumers that we set out to satisfy and if consumers are interested in e-vapor products we want to be the best at it.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus for closing remark.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow-up question please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
And welcome to the Altria Group 2014 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last approximately one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and the question-and-answer session.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Lori.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria’s CFO to talk about Altria’s 2014 business results for the third quarter and the first nine months.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we’re comparing results to the same period in 2013.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our third quarter and first nine month results.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release on our website at altria.com.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today’s earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Future dividend payments and timing of share repurchases remain subject to the discussion of Altria’s Board.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings release which is available on our website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Our companies are delivering well against their strategies and our business results are on track.
In the first nine months of 2014 Altria delivered solid adjusted diluted EPS growth of 5.5%.
During the third quarter the Board increased our dividend by 8.3% and authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program.
And earlier this morning we’ve reaffirmed our adjusted EPS guidance of 7% to 9% for the full-year of 2014.
Here are the highlights for the third quarter and the nine months of 2014.
The smokable production segment performance this year has been outstanding.
We delivered strong adjusted operating company’s income growth of 9% in the third quarter and 6.3% year-to-date driven by solid pricing.
Adjusted operating company’s income margins also grew both in the quarter and the first nine months.
Marlboro continues to show modest share momentum as again one-tenth of a share point in both the third quarter and year-to-date in line with our strategy in the smokable segment.
It’s apparent that the investments made in the Marlboro architecture are paying dividends and we’re excited about the brand’s strong equity and momentum.
In smokeless USSTC continues its strategy to grow income by growing volume at or ahead of the category and maintaining modest share momentum on Copenhagen and Skoal combined.
In the first nine months the smokeless segment delivered 4.4% adjusted OCI growth in a competitive environment with lower industry volume growth.
USSTC strengthened its leadership position behind the combined performance of Copenhagen and Skoal.
For the third quarter of 2014 these two premium brands achieved their highest combined share since the acquisition of UST at 51.3 share points.
Turning to innovative tobacco products Nu Mark continued its national expansion of MarkTen e-vapor products and is developing a robust product pipeline.
MarkTen achieved distribution in nearly 80 000 retail stores.
As of September 30 2014 MarkTen continued to be ranked in the top three e-vapor brands in the Western US based on retail market share.
Nu Mark plans to further expand MarkTen in the Eastern half of the US and complete its national expansion in the fourth quarter.
Our diverse business model and strong balance sheet support our strong and growing dividend in our ability to enhance shareholder returns through share repurchases.
In August 2014 Altria’s Board increased the regular quarterly dividend by 8.3% to $0.52 per share.
Altria paid shareholders almost $1 billion in dividends in the quarter and nearly $3 billion in the first nine months.
We remain focused on our target dividend payout ratio of 80% of adjusted diluted EPS and we expect to continue to raise the dividend in line with adjusted diluted EPS growth.
In the third quarter Altria completed the prior $1 billion share repurchase program.
In July 2014 the Board authorized a new $1 billion program which Altria expects to complete by the end of 2015.
During the third quarter of 2014 Altria repurchased approximately 6.4 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $42.87 for a total cost of approximately $275 million.
As of the end of the third quarter of 2004 Altria had approximately $778 million remaining in the current $1 billion share repurchase program.
In summary we’re very pleased with our year-to-date business performance and strong execution.
Our core tobacco businesses are performing well and we are making disciplined investments in innovation for the future.
Together we are managing our diverse business model and strong balance sheet with the objective of delivering consistent earnings growth and shareholder returns year-after-year.
Howard will now provide additional details on the quarter and for the first nine months.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Altria Group third quarter adjusted diluted EPS by 6.2% and today we reaffirmed guidance for both adjusted and reported diluted EPS.
Altria expects to deliver adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7% to 9% in a range of $2.54 to $2.59 of an adjusted base of $2.38 per share in 2013.
We expect stronger adjusted diluted EPS growth in the fourth quarter driven by several factors including a significantly lower fourth quarter effective tax rate on operations resulting from Altria’s 2013 debt tender offer and lower fourth quarter costs in the smokable products segment due to the end of the federal tobacco quota buy-out payments.
Turning to the smokable products segment we delivered strong adjusted OCI and adjusted OCI margin growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2014 primarily through higher pricing.
Adjusted OCI margins expanded 2 percentage points in the first nine months of 2014.
PM USA grew Marlboro’s and its total cigarette category retail share in the third quarter and nine months year-to-date.
After adjusting for trade inventory fluctuation and other factors PM USA estimates that its third quarter and first nine months cigarette shipment volume declined approximately 3% and 3.5% respectively and the total industry volumes declined approximately 3.5% and 4% respectively.
The 2014 year-to-date industry cigarette decline of 4% continues to be in the range of the decline rate we’ve seen in the last few years.
Middleton’s reported cigar shipment volume increased 8.4% for the third quarter and 6.8% year-to-date driven by Black &amp; Mild’s strong performance in the tipped cigars segment including Black &amp; Mild Jazz.
In the smokeless products segment adjusted OCI grew 0.7% in the third quarter and 4.4% year-to-date.
Adjusted operating margins grew 3.1 percentage points in the third quarter to 64.9% and 2.4 percentage points to 64.6% year-to-date.
After adjusting for calendar differences and trade inventory changes USSTC and PM USA estimate that their combined domestic smokeless products shipment volume grew approximately 2.5% in the third quarter and 3% in the first nine months of 2014.
USSTC and PM USA estimate that the smokeless products category volume grew approximately 3% over the last 12 months reflecting slower industry volume growth in the past two quarters.
Copenhagen and Skoal delivered third quarter retail share of 51.3 share points up four-tenths from last year driven by Copenhagen’s retail share growth of 1.4 share points.
USSTC is investing both in Skoal’s equity and to narrow price gaps on Skoal Classic.
These investments are designed to enhance the long-term combined performance of Copenhagen and Skoal.
The wine segment continued to deliver solid results.
Ste.
Michelle grew OCI by 10.7% for the third quarter and 11% for the first nine months.
Shipments increased 4.2% in the quarter and 2.5% year-to-date.
That wraps up our operating results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled let me cover a few housekeeping items.
As a reminder comparisons when made are against the third quarter of 2013 unless noted otherwise.
Marlboro’s price gap versus the lowest effective priced cigarette was 33% down 1 percentage point.
Marlboro’s net pack price was $5.98 up $0.12.
The lowest effective priced cigarette was $4.51 up $0.15.
The cigarette discounts segment retail share was 24.9% down from 25.3%.
Wholesale inventory changes are one factor PM USA uses to estimate adjusted PM USA and industry volumes.
PM USA estimates that for 2014 wholesale inventories were approximately 2.3 billion units at the end of the third quarter and 2.1 billion units at the end of the second quarter.
Last year PM USA’s wholesale inventories were estimated to be approximately 2.5 billion units at the end of the third quarter and 2.2 billion units at the end of the second quarter.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax was $1.48 per pack up $0.01.
Copenhagen’s price gap versus the leading discount brand was 30% down 6 percentage points.
Copenhagen’s retail price was $4.15 up $0.08.
The price of the leading discount brand was $3.19 up $0.20.
In the third quarter CapEx was $56 million and ongoing depreciation and amortization was $49 million.
Operator do we have any questions?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Investors analysts and media representatives are now invited to participate in the question-and-answer session.
We will take questions from the investment community first.
Our first question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Judy.
So Marty I guess you had a very strong cigarette profitability or the smokeless division had very strong profitability with very strong pricing margin expansion.
Just curious if you can talk about the competitive landscape and the ability to sustain this kind of very profitable growth in the segment and especially as you get into the fourth quarter where you been obviously will have another favorable tailwind in terms of your cost standpoint? Well thanks for your question and thanks for your comment.
There was very strong performance over at the smokable segment.
When you look at the numbers that we’ve reported this morning you see income growth 9% and margin expansion very good pricing realization very good steady momentum on Marlboro in line with our strategy and then of course the volume declines have moderated below what the industry estimate is from us.
So that’s a very strong performance.
I think what it represents Judy is that coming together of some of the work that we’ve done.
If the Marlboro architecture is clearly paying back dividends our strategy is to maximize income.
That’s how we’re trying to execute our plan this year and that’s what we should expect going forward.
They change a little bit over time quarter-to-quarter but over time that’s the strategy and we’re trying to be consistent in that regard.
Okay.
And then Howard any help you can give us just in terms of just really dissecting a bit more the all other segment performance from a sales and profitability perspective? I understand there is a lot of noise around the financial services business but you’re also making investments on the MarkTen.
So just curious how we should think about that business? And then are we done in terms of all the investments related to the MarkTen national launch.
Does this step up again in the fourth quarter or is this sort of the peak investment quarter as we think about that business? Yes I think as we’ve indicated previously we’re not going to break down the detail in that other segment any more than that as indicated in the release.
But as we’ve said since the beginning of the year our results this year are impacted by the fact that we are both making investments in Nu Mark throughout the year and at the same time the comparisons of our PMCC operating company’s income are affected by lower asset sales this year than last year.
And both of those create a negative year-over-year comparison in the other segment.
Okay but sequentially is there anything you can talk about just in terms of how much the national expansion of the Nu Mark would have helped the revenue line just to get a sense of if we’re actually seeing progression on the MarkTen sales side I understand there is a lot of investment that’s going on but just trying to just sort of reconcile with what we’re seeing from a Nielson market share data perspective and sizing the MarkTen number from that data to kind of what you’re actually reporting from a shipment perspective? Yes I’m not going to provide any further detail on a quarterly comparison basis.
Okay all right.
And then just my last question Marty.
Just the smokeless tobacco segment I mean clearly you had the one less shipping day that impacted the reported shipments.
The category seems a little bit slower though if you adjust for the shipment days.
So just can you talk about what’s happening from a category perspective? And obviously you’ve had some investments you’re making to tweak some of the pricing around Skoal.
How do you think that that’s going in terms of the context of your market share performance? Sure let me talk about those in turn.
As you know we try to estimate the category growth in smokeless on a 12-month trailing basis.
And using that metric over the last several years I guess I would say it’s been in the range of about 5%.
And then you see that our estimate today is about 3% because it’s slowed down in the last two quarters which has that effect.
We’re analyzing what’s going on with the growth rate right now carefully.
It goes I think without saying that as categories get bigger the growth gets harder as they get bigger.
And I think everyone also recognizes that tobacco consumers have choices today as they choose their products.
So we’re looking at that carefully.
I think it’s important probably to say what we’ve said with respect to that growth rate what we say with respect to the cigarette decline rate which is it’s really best measured over time.
And so we have two quarters of data here which are taking us in this direction but we’ll look at it carefully over time.
With respect to Skoal I always start out by reminding folks that while Skoal has its challenges it is a top three brand with 20 share points in a segment for us that has 65% operating margins.
So it’s a big brand with good profitability.
Its challenge though is that it competes both with its competition but it competes with Copenhagen which is the iconic brand in the category of ours that continues to grow very strongly.
So we’re trying to work on that.
As you know this takes place over time.
Howard has already made reference to the fact that we’ve worked on its equity positioning.
We have a new equity campaign.
You’ve seen the ads in print I’m sure.
We have very good new equity based promotions for Skoal in the marketplace that have been very well received.
And then with respect to Skoal Classic which remembers at the premium price point we’re trying to get that price point adjusted for price gap management purposes so that to compete more effectively against this principal competitor and we’ve been able to do that we do that tactically by state because it makes difference in terms of the excise tax rates.
So it takes place over time but we are encouraged by where we’re going with Skoal.
We manage our premium brands for the long-term and we are patient.
Okay.
Thank you.
Judy thanks for calling in.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Hi Vivien.
So Marty you called out the success of the Marlboro architecture and that’s clearly evident in the continued momentum that you have on the Marlboro brand.
I know you guys don’t like to talk about individual product lines within the Marlboro family but may be could you talk about Marlboro Black in totality where you’ve called that out as a good share gainer over time in previous discussions? Yes I do think that the Marlboro architecture is best understood in context of the four families but it is true that the addition of the Marlboro Black flavor family has been a terrific boost for Marlboro.
That brand continues to perform very well.
I think we’re now in our 15th consecutive quarter of growth for that.
And it’s highly relevant to adult competitive smokers.
It’s a terrific product in a great pack.
But I do think that apart from Black the best understanding of the Marlboro architecture as we’ve discussed previously as you know is to understand that it has opened up the marketing freedom to speak to people who are in the franchise and adult competitive smokers in different ways and to market to them in different ways.
And I think in totality that’s why you see Marlboro performing as well as it has done.
That and many other things – by the way Marlboro.com has been improved how we go to market has improved.
So I think the team has done a really great job with Marlboro.
That’s terrific.
Thank you.
In terms of the cigarette industry volume declines and I heard you loud and clear on the work that you’re doing on MST and I’m sure there is some cigarette analysis involved there as you think about kind of the cross elasticities of demand but I know you guys also focus a lot on the health of the consumer.
Can you give us just an update on how you’re seeing your consumer trending in particular in light of lower gas prices? You’re talking about the economic conditions? Yes.
We had in our 2014 plan that while the US economy was improving that we assumed that it was not going to show up quite as strongly for our adult tobacco consumers.
And I think that has proven to be the case throughout the year.
Unemployment rates obviously are down but they’re not down where they should be.
Underemployment is down but it’s not down to where it should be.
And on those two measures in particular our adult tobacco consumers over index.
There is pretty tepid year-over-year wage gains but then you do see the suits of other good economic activity.
Housing starts are up consumer confidence some months are up and then we have seen lower gas prices although that’s less of a factor in our view.
So I think for 2014 while we’re encouraged and we hope that it gets traction our continuing assumption is that our adult tobacco consumer is going to be under some pressure.
That’s very helpful.
And Howard just one last one for you.
As we think about the fourth quarter anything that we should keep in mind in terms of SAB because the SAB number came in higher than I have been anticipating given I guess the casino sale? Yes I think that’s – the only thing I would point out is that third quarter was impacted by an extra gain related to the sale of their casino business in Africa.
And I think that’s the only thing I would point out from a SABMiller perspective.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for calling in.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Good morning.
Good morning Michael.
When you give you market share updates is that on the adjusted category numbers that you mentioned or on just the unadjusted sort of pure number? Yes I mean I think our market share comes from our syndicated panel that essentially measures market share at retail.
So I think there is obviously a relationship between shipments and retail but it really comes out of a difference system that we’ve invested a fair amount in to get an accurate read of the mainstream retail outlets.
Okay yes that’s helpful.
And do you have a sense of what – I guess you’ve sighted the adjusted shipment category number do you know what the retail number for the category is that you look at for the third quarter just for context of what the share gain is against? Yes I don’t think we really look at it that way.
If you think about it – when we look at our shipments we’re shipping out to wholesale.
And obviously when we read retail market share there is a bit of space between our shipments to wholesale and what happens at retail.
So that is why we provide both the actual and adjusted shipment numbers to give your perspective on that as well as then going further downstream and providing you with retail share figures that allow you to understand how we’re doing in the overall retail market.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just looking back a little bit actually just for context.
When you look at your 2009 market share loss of about a percentage point or slightly more do you know – do you have an ability to estimate how much of that might have been related to your integration of UST as sort of a disruption or was it in your view more related to economic pressures or trading down or other things like that? Yes I’ll be honest with you.
I’m a bit uncomfortable analyzing the 2009 numbers at this stage but certainly if you want to have some conversation about 2009 you can speak to the IR group.
Well or I guess maybe let me put it in a different way.
You have experienced with integration of your own that obviously are a major effort.
How much of a distraction do you feel like that could have been in that particular timeframe I guess or just in terms of focus or managing through that? Yes I think our experience in the UST integration was that given the size and professionalism of our sales force certainly there was some incremental work placed on the sales force when we took over UST but remembering back to that time I think it went pretty smoothly.
So I don’t have a recollection that there were significant disruptions in the cigarette category related to that.
Okay.
That’s helpful context.
And just last question on PMCC obviously the finance assets is down pretty dramatically from where it would have been even just a couple of years ago.
Is it still kind of your approach to opportunistic sales or is there some degree of flat-towing [ph] that the sales you think make the most sense to me have probably been done or what’s kind of the run rate looking ahead? This quarter the asset balance there didn’t change very much from 2Q.
Is it leveled off or what should we expect looking ahead in that segment there? Yes.
I think as you know we’re trying to wind that business down completely.
And so essentially looking at the cash flow impact and the profit impact of selling assets in any given year our bias is towards selling them if we can sell them for a reasonable financial outcome but we’ve been in that mode for quite some time.
So I would say that we are probably reaching a period where we’re going to see a slowdown in some of those asset sales.
Certainly that is what is driving the negative year-over-year comparison at PMCC this year compared to last year was we had very good asset sales last year.
Now that said in the leasing business there is a sweet spot which then becomes more favorable to sell assets in the life of the lease.
And so at any given year I think we do expect to have some asset sales that could potentially occur as we get closer to the end of some of those leases.
So we’re managing through that but I think the most important point was the one you made which was the net finance receivable on that businesses come down tremendously.
We’re now down below $2 billion and so we’re well on our way to completely exiting that business.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for calling in Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Bonnie.
I have a follow-on question from an earlier one asked a little differently in terms of how you’re balancing your business in the short and long-term.
Marty as you mentioned you’re generating strong volume and pricing and then your smokable margins have expanded quite a bit.
So if you back out your other segment which includes MarkTen you would have reported double-digit EPS growth in the quarter.
So I guess I’m trying to understand why you believe the e-cig or vapor category weren’t the levels spending right now and how big this opportunity can truly be in the long-term and essentially how you’re balancing this versus rewarding shareholders right now? Yes.
Good question let me try to give you some context about how we think of that at the strategic level and I think you and I have discussed this previously which is we’ve tried to maximize our core business while we innovate for our future.
And we have tremendous core businesses we have the leading positions we have the leading brands.
We have high margins that generate enormous amounts of cash most of which we give back to the shareholders through the dividend periodic share repurchase.
We keep those businesses relevant in growing by investing in them appropriately.
I think that’s how to think about the core.
However we also know that consumers change and businesses change and markets change.
And so you always have to be looking ahead about what you need to be doing today to be ready for tomorrow.
That’s how we think about innovation and other categories for example heat-not-burn which as you know we have the license from PMI.
As consumers evolve we want to have products for them.
We want them to be premium we want them to branded and of course we aspire to have the good margins that we do in our tobacco businesses today.
The way to do that in our view is with discipline.
You learn your way in you do it wisely and you do it over time.
And I think that you can see that’s the approach we’re trying to take in e-vapor.
So I hope that context may be helpful about how we think about that.
Very much.
I appreciate that.
And then speaking of heat-not-burn the iQOS platform is being rolled out now in two countries like Philip Morris [ph] and then as you mentioned how access to this.
Could you update us on the process and have you filed for potential equivalent timeframes where you’re at with this in terms of eventually rolling that out here in the US? Yes I’d refer you to comments that PMI has made about this for further context but obviously you know that the deal is we struck an arrangement with PMI where we will sell them our e-vapor products for sale through their distribution network internationally and we continue to work with them on that and we’re excited about that.
And then on heat-not-burn we’re cooperating with PMI as it goes through the process at the Food and Drug Administration in pursuit of a reduced harm claim.
You might expect that we would be working on ideas about how to commercialize that project when it becomes successful.
These are longer term projects but our strategy is to offer consumers alternatives for those who want them.
And we’re very excited to be working with PMI and that I think it’s – I think they would say and I would certainly say it’s going quite well.
Okay.
And I just have one final quick question on MarkTen and the consumer behavior.
How is it been what do you think in terms of repeat purchases.
We’ve seen maybe some share losses on a sequential basis in Nielson’s.
So maybe you could address that.
And then I’d be curious to hear your robust product pipeline behind MarkTen.
You mentioned that.
So how soon would you be able to roll-out your next generation products? Sure.
So I’ll start I guess by talking about shares and it’s just a word of caution in the e-vapor category.
I think if you look back over the last three years you’ve had at least five brands at one time or another have claimed share a leadership.
And what in fact you see is a lot of dynamism among the shares as consumers continue to try products.
You’ve heard us speak about this before.
Consumers are continuing to shop for the product that they want in the e-vapor space.
Brands have sort of come and gone and up and down and it continues to evolve.
Our long-term aspiration is leadership in the category which means we will offer consumers in this space superior products.
We will build brand equity and we’ll build share over time.
With respect to MarkTen we’re very happy with the start that we have.
We believe we have a very good product.
It’s differentiated by its technology but there is no denying that consumers are continuing to shop for our products and others will continue to roll products out as we have them.
I’m obviously not going to tip my hand about what’s coming but I can tell you that Nu Mark has a lot of great ideas and we’re working very hard on a whole range of products to offer to consumers in this space.
That makes sense.
Thank you so much Marty.
Thanks for calling Bonnie.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Good morning guys.
Hi Owen.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was just hoping for a bit more commentary on price mix in smokable and I guess I’m really just playing devil’s advocate on this one.
Although strong in the quarter it was below that of one of your competitors.
I was just wondering if you were seeing any ongoing specific mixed pressures especially as you continue to see strong share momentum with L&amp;M [ph]? Thank you.
Okay thanks for your question.
I wouldn’t characterize that way.
I think again when I look at the smokable performance for the quarter and certainly for the year-to-date we’ve got income up 9% and margin growth and strong pricing realization and the volumes are below the estimated industry decline again.
We look at this over time but when you look at the year-to-date for PM USA in the smokable segment it’s nothing short of an outstanding performance and we’re very happy with it.
Okay thank you.
Thanks for calling in.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Hi good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi.
Just two quick questions if I could.
I wanted to ask you gave some data I believe it was at the Back-To-School Conference about the vapor category and you have a better tracking mechanism for that.
So I’m just curious in relation to the cigarette category.
Have you seen any slowdown in vapor? Is that in part what’s driving better volumes in cigarettes or do you have some other explanation for what has been a better category growth condition here in the quarter? Again Chris if you look at it over time we’ve got a model that we use that’s a secular decline rate of about 2% to 3% and then you’ve got of course your pricing elasticities.
And in our secular model includes adult consumers trying other kinds of products including vapor.
So we don’t see anything remarkable there to call out.
Okay.
And then just one other question on MarkTen.
In the way that product has gone or at least I’ve seen it it’s within your cigarette shelf set.
Is that what you expect for new products going forward and we’d be careful talking about new products but are you trying to fit those within your existing shelves that you are looking for space on the back counter and the counter at the [indiscernible].
So just curious how we should think about new products that reach the shelf? Yes that’s an excellent question.
I think that the merchandizing of innovative products into the traditional categories is going to have to be resolved over time.
I think clearly in the short run what you’re trying to do is you’re trying to get awareness of your product to the adult consumer at retail.
And because PM USA has space that it could provide the Nu Mark on appropriate terms.
That’s the approach we took.
It will depend I suppose on how large the categories get to bay [ph].
What we would expect is for retailers to adjust their merchandizing approach and their scale with the size of the category and we’re working closely with retailers to try to help them in thinking through that.
I think that’s the best way to think about it.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Matt.
Hi.
So I have couple of questions.
Marty first just to revisit Vivien’s earlier question about the economic health of the smoker.
You echoed what others in the industry have talked about this quarter with cigarette volumes decline – with the decline in cigarette volumes moderating from down 4% or 4.5% during the first half to down only perhaps 3.5% or a bit less in the third quarter.
And you commented that you have not seen a material improvement in economic conditions or behavior among core smokers.
So I’m just curious if it’s not macro-driven what other factors would it play the most meaningful role in this sequential improvement? Well I think there is two answers to it Matt.
One is actually when you look at the decline rates that we’re estimating for the quarter its spot in the middle of the range that we’ve been estimating for some time now.
So I don’t think it represents the deviation from curve as much as it represents a data point best understood over time.
So I guess that’s the first thing I’d say.
The second thing I’d say to be clear about the macro environment is that it simply is uneven.
It clearly is improving at a macro level for the reasons I called out.
It’s just that it’s uneven over time and it also appears to be somewhat uneven in its distribution.
And so the adult tobacco consumer is not participating in the recovery to the same degree in many instances as is the general public.
So we’ll have to see going forward but I think that’s honestly the answer which is we’re trying to be mindful of what the macro environment is and in particular for our consumer set.
Okay.
But just to be clear you wouldn’t necessarily attribute changes in cigarette volumes to sequential changes through the year in cross category dynamics or retailer working capital dynamics anything along those lines? No I don’t think we would.
Okay.
Thanks.
And Howard just on SABMiller.
Last quarter you addressed some of the speculation there and how you might evaluate cash transaction from the perspective of shareholders.
Just to take the other side of that hypothetical.
I’m just curious how you would assess the potential impact or attractiveness of taking on less than 20% stake in another publicly traded company in an equity transaction and whether you felt in that circumstance it might be possible to justify the continuation of equity method accounting? Yes I think the answer to a detailed scenario is probably best answered in the moment when the details are available.
I think our view though has been that we continue to view the SABMiller asset as an attractive asset that is contributed strongly to our earnings growth into cash flow through dividends.
And at this point our view hasn’t changed which is we think it’s in the best interest of our shareholders to retain that asset but as always we’re doing a lot of analysis we’re doing a lot of future scenario planning to make sure we’re prepared for whatever the future brings.
And I think we’re open-minded but we continue to view the asset as a positive contributor to the business.
Okay understood.
I had to give it a shot.
You answered it last quarter.
And then lastly just on the interest expense.
I think you exercised the may-call [ph] provision on one of your outstanding bonds during the quarter.
Should we expect to see some sequential favorability on interest expense and do you see additional refinancing opportunities going forward over the next six to 12 months? Yes we did called some bonds.
It was about $300 million worth of UST debt.
It was actually the only debt we have that wasn’t at the parent level.
And so we thought to clean that up not only helped our maturity towers but had some compliance in some operational benefits.
It will have some positive impact on interest in this quarter.
It actually was – the impact will really be felt in the fourth quarter and certainly we’ll have some impact next year but the scale of that was actually quite small compared to some of the activity we’ve done in the past.
And I think as indicated by this transaction we’re always looking at how to best manage our debt load.
And I think we’re opportunistic going forward but I have to say that I think the significant activity that’s occurred over the last couple of years is probably going to represent the biggest opportunity there.
Okay thanks everyone.
Matt I’m glad you joined us.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Marascia of Capitol Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Two question.
Can you guys sort of outline your plans for expanding into the Eastern US and what do you foresee as being the total amount of retail outlets you might like to be in as you complete the – or as you move into the Eastern area of the United States? Sure.
We are expanding into the Eastern United States.
That’s been the plan.
We’re going to be national.
We hope to have that completed by the fourth quarter.
I am sure that we can provide you with an estimate of the total stores.
I just don’t have that in front of me.
If you’d like I’ll have someone give it to you.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks for calling in.
Media representatives are now invited to participate in the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
And welcome to the Altria Group 2014 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last approximately one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s Chairman and CEO; and Howard Willard Altria’s CFO to talk about Altria’s 2014 business results for the fourth quarter and full year.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we’re comparing results to the same period in 2013.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our fourth quarter and full year results.
For a detailed review of Altria’s business results please review the earnings release on our website at altria.com or via Altria investor app.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today’s earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria’s Board.
The timing of share repurchases also depends on marketplace conditions and other factors.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings release which is available on our website and via the Altria investor app.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Altria had another terrific year in 2014.
For the full year we again delivered against our two long term financial goals.
We grew adjusted diluted EPS by 8% and we paid out approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS to shareholders in dividends which totaled $3.9 billion.
We also raised our dividend by 8.3% marking the 48<sup>th</sup> increase in the last 45 years.
We further rewarded shareholders by repurchasing nearly $1 billion in shares between the program we completed in 2014 and the new $1 billion program we announced in July.
And in 2014 Altria delivered total shareholder return of 34.5% far outpacing both the S&amp;P 500 and the Food Beverage and Tobacco Index.
We achieved these results by the clarity of our core strategies and our talented employees’ strong execution against them.
Here are some important segment highlights from the quarter and the full year.
The smokable products segment produced outstanding results by consistently executing its strategy of maximizing income while maintaining modest share growth on Marlboro and Black &amp; Mild over time.
The segment grew adjusted operating company’s income by almost 8% in the quarter and by nearly 7% for the full year primarily through higher pricing.
The end of the federal tobacco quota buyout payments also contributed in the quarter.
The segment also expanded adjusted operating company’s income margins in both periods.
Marlboro was the primary driver of these strong financial results.
PM USA's long-term investments in the Marlboro architecture have strengthened the brand’s equity and expanded its ability to engage both loyal and competitive adult smokers.
In 2014 the brand posted its third consecutive year of retail share growth.
And Marlboro continues to innovate.
In November PM USA expanded distribution of Marlboro Menthol Rich Blue to 28 states primarily in the eastern US to enhance Marlboro’s position in the menthol segment.
It’s early but Rich Blue is off to a good start.
In the machine made large cigar category John Middleton strengthened its leadership position in the tipped segment.
The company posted solid volume growth in the quarter and the full year driven primarily by Black &amp; Mild.
Over time Middleton has enhanced the brand with innovative introductions like Black &amp; Mild Jazz and in December Middleton announced the national expansion of Black &amp; Mild Casino a dark tobacco blend in the tipped segment.
In the smokeless products segment USSTC continued to execute its strategy in 2014.
USSTC grew full-year adjusted operating company’s income by more than 3% and expanded its already strong adjusted operating company’s income margin by more than 1% despite a slowdown in the industry volume growth rate.
We estimate that growth rate to be about 2% for the last 12 months.
USSTC maintained retail share leadership in the smokeless category in 2014 with its premium brands as Copenhagen and Skoal grew their combined share in the quarter and for the full year.
Copenhagen posted strong share gains in both periods behind the strength of Copenhagen Long Cut Wintergreen.
In 2014 USSTC began enhancing Skoal’s value equation with a new equity campaign and targeted investments to narrow price gaps on Skoal Classic.
We’re pleased with the results we’ve seen so far.
Turning to innovative tobacco products Nu Mark made steady progress as it builds e-vapor category leadership.
The company is taking a disciplined approach and remains focused on building a robust portfolio of superior innovative products for adult smokers vapor.
In the fourth quarter Nu Mark evolved MarkTen by adding a new offering with 2.5% nicotine concentration by weight in classic and menthol varieties.
In December Nu Mark completed its national launch of MarkTen e-vapor products achieving distribution in over 130 000 stores and at year-end MarkTen was ranked among the top e-vapor brands nationally based on retail market share.
Nu Mark also acquired and integrated Green Smoke in 2014.
This acquisition added great people deep supply chain expertise and technology and we’re excited about the brand’s potential.
It’s still early days in this dynamic and evolving category but we believe Nu Mark is increasingly well-positioned for the future.
In 2014 our alcohol assets continued to diversify our income and contribute to income growth.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle posted another year of double-digit operating company’s income growth primarily through higher volume.
Critics awarded Ste.
Michelle’s premium wines more than 180 ratings of 90 or better in 2014.
Our earnings also benefited from our SAB Miller investment which continues to support our strong balance sheet.
So to sum up 2014 was another excellent year for our strong premium brands for our company and for our shareholders.
We’re maximizing income in our core premium tobacco businesses and innovating for the future.
We’re extremely proud of the results produced by our very talented employees and of our track record for creating value for shareholders.
Looking ahead to 2015 Altria forecast its 2015 adjusted diluted EPS will increase by 7% to 9% to a range of $2.75 to $2.80 from an adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.57 in 2014.
Finally today we are announcing some executive leadership changes all to be effective March 1 this year.
First Dave Beran our President and Chief Operating Officer has decided to retire after 38 years of distinguished service to the company.
Dave’s strong expertise knowledge financial acumen and leadership have contributed immeasurably to Altria success and he will be missed.
When Dave retires Howard Willard will become Altria’s Chief Operating Officer.
He has significant experience having been with the company since 1992.
In addition to his current role of CFO Howard has held leadership positions in numerous business functions of the Altria companies.
Bill Gifford will succeed Howard as Altria’s Chief Financial Officer.
Billy has been with Altria since 1994 and also has held numerous roles including President and CEO of PM USA and his current role as Altria’s Senior Vice President Strategy and Business Development.
These moves are consistent with our long-term succession planning and these talented experienced leaders will serve us well for the future.
I’ll now turn things over to Howard who will discuss Altria’s business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
In 2014 strong performance in our smokable products segment helped drive adjusted diluted EPS growth of almost 16% in the fourth quarter and 8% for the full year.
A lower effective tax rate on operations and lower interest expense were also contributors to adjusted diluted EPS growth in both periods.
The smokable products segment delivered strong adjusted operating company’s income growth in the quarter and for the full year.
The segment also expanded adjusted operating company’s income margins 1.8 percentage points in the fourth quarter and 1.9 percentage points in the full year.
For the full year PM USA grew Marlboro’s retail share by one-tenth of a share point and grew its total cigarette category retail share by two-tenths of a share point.
L&amp;M share gains also contributed to PM USA's full-year retail share performance while the cigarette discount segment declined slightly.
The smokable products segment’s fourth quarter reported operating company’s income grew 7.6% primarily driven by higher pricing.
For the full year the segment’s reported operating company’s income declined 2.7% primarily due to higher gains on NPM adjustment items in 2013.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates that its fourth-quarter and full-year cigarette shipment volume decline approximately 2% and 3% respectively and the total industry volumes declined approximately 2.5% and 3.5% respectively.
The 2014 full-year industry cigarette decline of 3.5% continues to be in the range of the decline rate we’ve seen in the last few years.
In cigars Middleton's reported cigar shipment volume increased by almost 4% for the fourth quarter and over 6% for the full-year driven primarily by Black &amp; Mild strong performance in the tipped cigars segment.
Black &amp; Mild’s retail share decline four-tenths for the quarter and three-tenths for the full-year.
In the smokeless products segment adjusted operating company’s income was unchanged in the fourth quarter as higher pricing and higher volume were offset by higher promotional investments and the timing of selling general and administrative expenses.
For the full year the segment grew adjusted operating company’s income 3.3% primarily due to higher pricing and higher volume partially offset by higher promotional investments and product mix.
Adjusted operating margins declined 2.5 percentage points in the fourth quarter to 60% and grew 1.1 percentage points to 63.4% in the full year.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors USSTC estimates that its domestic smokeless product shipment volume grew approximately 2.5% in both the fourth quarter and full year of 2014.
Copenhagen and Skoal's combined retail share grew four-tenths of a share point in the quarter to 51.3% and grew 5-tenths to 51.2% for the full year.
The wine segment delivered strong results in the fourth quarter and the full year.
Ste.
Michelle grew operating companies' income by 17.8% in the fourth quarter and 13.6% in the full year primarily driven by higher volume.
Shipments increased 9.6% in the quarter and 4.8% for the full year.
That wraps up our operating results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled let's cover a few housekeeping items.
As a reminder comparisons when made are against the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 unless we note otherwise.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 32% in the fourth quarter down 2 percentage points and 33% for the full year down 1 percentage point.
For the fourth quarter Marlboro's net pack price was $6.02 up $0.16 and the lowest effective priced cigarette was $4.55 up $0.17.
For the full year Marlboro's net pack price was $5.96 up $0.13 while the lowest effective priced cigarette was $4.49 up $0.15.
The cigarette discount segment's retail share was 24.9% for the fourth quarter and full year down 3-tenths in each period.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax was $1.49 per pack for the fourth quarter up $0.02 and $1.48 per pack for the full year up $0.04.
Wholesale inventory changes are one factor PM USA uses to estimate adjusted PM USA and industry volumes.
PM USA estimates that its 2014 wholesale inventories were approximately 2.4 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter and 2.3 billion units at the end of the third quarter.
In 2013 PM USA's wholesale inventories were estimated to be approximately 2.5 billion units at the end of both the fourth and third quarter.
PM USA estimates that the 2014 cigarette industry wholesale inventory levels were 5.5 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter and 5.7 billion units at the end of the third quarter.
PM USA estimates that 2013 wholesale inventory levels were 5.9 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter and 6.3 billion units at the end of the third quarter.
Copenhagen's price gap versus the leading discount brand was 32% in the fourth quarter and full year down 3 percentage points for the fourth quarter and 4 percentage points for the full year.
Copenhagen's retail price was $4.19 in the fourth quarter up $0.12 and $4.13 for the full year up $0.07.
The price of the leading discount brand was $3.17 in the fourth quarter and $3.14 for the full year up $0.15 in each period.
CapEx was $47 million for the fourth quarter and $163 million for the full year.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $59 million for the quarter and $208 million for the full year.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect capital expenditures will be in the range of $200 million to $250 million and the depreciation and amortization will be approximately $200 million.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Congratulations to everybody.
There's a couple people so I'll just say everyone.
But -- so Marty I guess first I just wanted to get your updated thoughts on the current economic outlook and how that is impacting cigarette consumption because we've seen now two consecutive quarters of improving volume trends which I know generally you would attribute just to quarterly volatility and the full year was in line with the long-term average.
But at this point can we say that we are seeing some evidence of stronger consumption or as you look across the industry better product -- better portfolio mix? Yes that's great question.
Let me give you are view of the adult tobacco consumer for 2015 which I really think goes to the heart of what you're asking about.
We've been cautious for the last several years as you know as we went through this difficult recession.
We are actually seeing a modest improvement I think in the economic situation for the adult tobacco consumer although it remains a bit of a mixed bag.
The US economy is clearly improving as everyone knows and particularly in relation to the rest of the world economies we see unemployment and underemployment have come down we see housing starts are coming back we see very good consumer confidence numbers.
So I think all of that is a positive -- those are positive factors.
On the other side of the ledger you have labor participation rates maybe not where they should be.
And then year-over-year wage gains are still modest.
But I think on balance our view is that the adult tobacco consumer is feeling better about their economic situation and their economic future and we expect some modest improvement in that over 2015.
Do you have any industry volume outlook that you're willing to share at this point? No we don't do that as you know.
But I think especially if you look out over the last three to four years which includes of course this very difficult recessionary period you see it Matt really 3% to 4% and you call it maybe 3.5% on average over the last four years.
PM USA has done better than that at about 3% because of its strong portfolio and its share gains.
So we don't see any big disruptors in that but we don't forecast volume going forward.
And Howard if I could just follow up on smokable products.
The 8% adjusted OCI growth in the quarter obviously it's a very strong number but I guess I'm almost surprised that it wasn't even stronger given the absence of quota buyout costs during the quarter.
Can you just talk about the increase that we saw in per-pack costs year on year excluding the quota buyout and where within the cost architecture of smokeable products you are seeing places to reinvest back in the business? Sure.
Yes I would tell you that as you note the cost per pack in the smokable segment was up quite a bit in the fourth quarter.
I have to tell you I think that is primarily driven by timing.
If you looked we had less expense in the third quarter and we don't tend to manage our expenses and our project execution quarter to quarter.
We are really managing to a full year.
And I think if you look at the trend of expenses in the full year it was at a much more normal level.
But certainly we felt good about the fourth quarter performance.
We had strong increases in net revenue per pack up around 5%.
And of course we did receive the savings in the FETRA payments in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
So to follow up on Matt's question clearly the cigarette industry volume dynamics are easing but we've got a deceleration in MST.
So can you talk about the interplay? I know we talked about this a little bit last quarter and it's something that you will watch over time but with another quarter of deceleration I was hoping you could opine on what is causing that deceleration and whether there's a dynamic that involve cigarettes as well? I think we will have to see.
Obviously let's will start with smokable.
It really had a strong -- Howard has already described the strong quarter and the strong year and we are very happy with the smokable performance.
And actually you see USSTC had a very good year; it grew its income at about 3%.
But we've observed this volume deceleration now over the last three quarters and that's at odds with what we've seen for the prior several years.
So Vivien they have more choices today and so there's some movement there but these things best are evaluated over time.
So I'm not sure I have any big insights to share with you this morning on that except to say that it speaks first to the wisdom of having a total tobacco platform.
So as adult tobacco consumers move within these categories that Altria is well positioned to offer them premium brands with great margin structures.
So that's how we think about the business.
And we will have to study the volume I think for some time yet to know the answer to the question you're proposing.
Fair enough.
For our modeling purposes if you will is this a deceleration that you guys are planning for to continue internally as you think about 2015? Well I'd like to say we try to help you guys as much as we can with your modeling but I can't -- and I applaud your courage for trying to get me to tell you -- but I really honestly -- the answer I gave you was the honest answer which is we're going to have to see.
And we've set up our year with our operating plans I think which is all embedded in our full-year guidance which is quite strong at 7% to 9%.
On the cigarette side as we look across to 2015 can you provide an update on the outlook for the state excise tax environment given how the NYMEX has been over the last few years please? I missed what you said Vivien.
You faded out right at the end I'm sorry.
Oh I apologize.
Can you provide an outlook for the 2015 state excise tax environment? Yes.
Well we're always cautious at the beginning of the year aren't we? And we’ve all seen that the state excise tax environment has been more moderate in the last several years than it has been previous.
But we go into each year prepared to answer the call because as you've observed and others have observed as soon as the legislatures come back in January we see the proposals start to roll in and there are a number of them that are out there.
We have very good government affairs people that point out that this is unfair to tobacco consumers and these products already highly taxed but we will have to see how the year plays out.
It's been a fairly moderate environment over the last several years and we hope that plays out in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
So in terms of your EPS growth guidance of 7% to 9% for this year it is in line with your historical trends and seems very conservative given the strong pricing and tremendous cost savings you have this year.
So I assume you will be fully reinvesting these savings into your different businesses.
So my first question is why not let some of the strength flow to the bottom line? And then second could you give us a sense of what the different investment buckets are for instance 70% of the savings will be invested in e-cig's vapor 30% in combustible? Just again trying to get a sense of your priorities.
Sure.
Let me offer you a slightly different perspective.
In previous years we've come out I think for the last several years at 6% to 9% not at 7% to 9%.
And the factors that went into our judgment this year about how the guide includes some of the things we've already spoken about on the call which is a modestly improving situation for our adult tobacco consumer.
Obviously we have the benefit of some FETRA payments but we I think pointed out in our release we have some pension and healthcare cost changes due to long-term assumptions.
And so every year you put your guidance together and you have puts and takes about what you're going to do.
Some years we invest some years we have factors which are flowing in the other direction.
I think 7% to 9% in the current environment is a strong signal about the confidence we have in our business and our operating Company plans.
Howard you might want to supplement that answer.
Yes no I think you covered it Marty.
The only other thing I would point out -- and this has been with us for some time and I think has been quite orderly -- but we are continuing to unwind the PMCC business and as that progresses there are fewer and fewer asset sales that are available.
So that's another element that plays into the overall company performance.
And then I do have a broad question on the consumer and uptrading.
So I'm certainly hearing from a lot of the retailers that consumers' greater disposable income is leading to up trading.
So is this too what you've seen in your Marlboro franchise and has there been a mix shift to premium Marlboro if I could call it that? And also you generated the strong net price realization in cigs but I'd be curious to hear from you what happens when gas prices go back up? In other words how sustainable do you think the strong pricing in cigs will be especially if and when gas prices rise? Okay let me try to comment on a couple of those to try to help you.
I think gas prices for us -- historically we have not called out gas prices as one of the principal drivers of consumer behavior although we acknowledge that it had some effect.
To us it was really more about the unemployment rate consumer confidence and housing starts.
Now the way that gasoline prices have gone down so precipitously has obviously had a bigger effect on the consumer right? The C stores as you and others have pointed out are seeing better traffic.
And I don't think there's any question that it is contributing to consumers feeling better about their economic situation.
But historically Bonnie we have not called that out as one of the big three drivers.
So I don't know what people here are expecting for gasoline prices but it probably will not have that much more of an effect.
We did have very good pricing.
And the way that we achieve pricing as you know is we took list pricing in 2014 combined $0.13 a pack.
And then as always we can moderate our promotional allowances and we did so last year.
We moderated our allowances on Special Blend -- Marlboro's Special Blend and on Black.
And as you know we are able to do that quite tactically by state by using our SVP tools.
So we did see a year in which we think we could take some pricing and I think you see that in the numbers for 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
So one follow-up and another question.
So on a follow-up perspective Howard you have talked about the fourth quarter being impacted by some timing of expense items.
Just on a full-year basis though your marketing and R&amp;D expenses were up over $200 million.
So I just wanted to get a bit better sense of where that spending was allocated in 2014 how much is that sustainable into 2015 and thinking about the guidance for 2015? Yes I think with regard to marketing and R&amp;D I really don't feel that there's been any dramatic departure this year versus prior years that I would call out with probably the one exception being that this was the year that we made some significant investments through Nu Mark in the e-vapor category.
And obviously that's had an impact on our R&amp;D investments as we built that product pipeline and certainly there's some marketing that supports that as well.
But that's really the primary impact there.
And then maybe on the e-vapor category itself if you look at some of the measure channel data the category has slowed.
You've obviously expanded the MarkTen distribution.
I'm just wondering if you could talk about your assessment about the category generally at this point? And then you also talked about more of a disciplined approach to building MarkTen.
So can you just elaborate on that and in light of the dynamics how you're thinking about the performance that you are seeing from MarkTen? Sure.
Well let's start with the category.
Our estimate is that the consumer spending in 2014 increased by about 50% to about $2 billion.
And that’s compared to a year before which I think you've seen in the numbers are roughly of a 160% increase.
So you can see that it has slowed although 50% increase is still fairly large.
It's growing in both traditional trade channels and it's also growing in vape shops which are harder to get a line of sight into.
To dimensionalize that spend though $80 billion is spent on conventional tobacco products versus the $2 billion that we estimate.
So just to put it in its proper context.
With respect to Nu Mark our belief is that that is an interesting enough category for us to participate in and to aspire to have leadership in.
That is a leadership that will be achieved over the long term and for the long term which is why we use these words about financially disciplined and over time.
We want to participate there.
We believe Nu Mark had a very good year.
Gosh we got the MarkTen product in 130 000 retail stores and that's easy to say and that's hard to do.
And so our sales force at Nu Mark did a great job there.
They rolled out as we mentioned in our remarks the 2.5% product.
Consumers continue to look for their product and so I think a lot of what's going to happen with vapor is about manufacturers trying to bring out products that better satisfy their consumers.
And that's what Nu Mark is doing.
It's for the long term.
It will be for the long term.
And we are learning our way in with our consumer and using a disciplined approach but with the acquisition of Green Smoke and their people and their technology in addition to Nu Mark I am very encouraged about what we have in the pipeline for MarkTen.
And then lastly Howard just in terms of 2015 guidance can you tell us how much share buyback is incorporated? I'm not going to guide at that level.
I think we previously talked about the fact that we have an existing share repurchase program in place.
It's got a little over $500 million left.
And we had communicated we expected to finish that by the end of the year so that hasn't changed.
And certainly any share repurchase plans we have are incorporated into the 7% to 9% guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Just following on the e-vapor question then I guess have you got any update on potential timescale and for commercialization of PMI's heat-not-burn? No we are working on it.
That has to go through the FDA process as you know and we are working closely with them on it.
And I think we feel like we're making good progress and I think PMI would tell you the same thing but I can't give you a date because it's subject to the FDA's processes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Just I have two questions.
I think a bit of a follow-up from earlier questions.
The first one would be Marty in relation to Marlboro and the discount products on the market today that price gap is quite narrow at 32%.
It's been there for several years.
You talked about I think to an earlier question the improving consumer environment.
Could we see that price gap expand? So therefore are economic conditions in such a place that it would allow for premium products to take a little bit more pricing than discount products? And that would be our hope of course as we try to maximize income in the smokable segment which is the price gaps have been higher at times in its history and -- but you have to be thoughtful about how you do that and when.
But certainly that would be in our interest of maximizing income.
And then another question on the call it the other division where you have PMCC and Nu Mark.
And I know it's hard -- if you can characterize each of those businesses and how they perform.
But you had a large investment and a huge national launch in MarkTen in 2014 and the investments so that operating loss in that division obviously expanded.
I'm just curious is it such that you've got a full pipeline that that operating loss couldn't come down or has the Nu Mark business which has obviously generated some decent sales now gotten to a point to where we should see less operating loss in the coming year? Yes I know that everybody is trying to get under the all other but we've really got two things operating there.
We are investing in Nu Mark which makes sense for the long term.
And then Howard has pointed out that as we wind down PMCC we have fewer asset sales and they tend to be lumpy from time to time.
So that's what's going on over there.
And we're just not going to guide down too much deeper than that Chris if you'll allow me.
I understand.
And maybe I think you made a mention earlier just to follow on about a strong pipeline of products at Nu Mark.
Should we expect some more activity behind product launches this year in ‘15? Is that a fair question? Well it's a fair question.
And I am going to reserve my answer so that I don't hand out my competitive plans on the phone.
But yes you should be thinking about this I think in terms of the category.
We expect to have products that will be launched that will be better and better as I expect that other people are planning similarly.
I think that's exactly the nature of the category right now.
We've got good plans for that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Avery of CLSA.
Can you just give a sense of what some of the investments -- what type of investments would be ideal for the savings that you've got coming from the buyout just in terms of equity building.
Obviously you have some relatively limited options in some of your marketing capabilities.
Can you just give a sense of what the tools are that would be highest priority for how you would think about applying some of those extra funds? Well again I'm not going to lay that out to tell everybody exactly how we're going to spend our assets to improve our business.
But you've seen us over time do such things as develop the Marlboro architecture to improve our Marlboro digital site to roll out new products like Rich Blue and Black and so forth.
So there's lots of places for us to invest in our businesses.
Our goal is to keep our brand franchises strong and relevant and there's lots of tools to do that even as you point out in a category which has higher regulation.
And then we have obviously as has previously been described some investments to make in our innovative products.
So that's how I would think about it Michael at a high level.
I'm just not going to lay it out in detail as I'm sure you can understand.
And just looking at the 4Q market share numbers even with the improving consumer health you had the discount segment really driving the share gains with Marlboro flat.
Is that a focus for 2015 to try do -- obviously I'm sure you enjoyed getting the lift in the discount share.
But is there a way you want to try to manage that to bring Marlboro further ahead or is a sort of steady state also -- how do you think about Marlboro versus the total portfolio and what the priorities are in terms of just how you approach that? Yes it's a good question.
Our aim is modest share momentum on Marlboro.
And we previously characterized I think that as if we get a tenth or 2-tenths a year that's great for Marlboro.
Listen our focus is on premium.
Over 90% of our shipments are premium but there is a discount segment and so we try to participate there.
And L&amp;M is a great offering at that price point.
And then just lastly on Green Smoke it's been the MarkTen rollout you've taken nationally.
What's the next step for Green Smoke? Would that follow it? Well we're working on that.
I mentioned I think to someone else that we've been integrating Green Smoke.
They've really helped us quite a lot on the front end with supply chain.
They had a well-established supply chain and we've been relying on them quite heavily to help us in that regard.
They have very good people and they do have a good technology pipeline.
We've been integrating all that in 2014.
Remember we closed on this I think in April if memory serves.
And so we've now been integrating that and we have an integrated pipeline of products as well as we become more efficient with those two organizations.
So yes I would expect to see more from the combined Nu Mark/Green Smoke assets.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions from my end.
The first one is on the Marlboro architecture.
It's been a couple years now since it's been implemented.
And I was wondering if maybe you had some context perspective you can share in terms of brand equity scores or any kind of indicator -- quantitative indicator on kind of what the effect has been? Clearly we've seen the Marlboro franchise do well over this timeframe so I just wondered if you had some more granularity on some of the quantification behind Marlboro.
And the second question is -- and this is I guess more strategic.
It seems like the superpremium cigarettes segment is doing fairly well and has been doing fairly well and there is really not that many players in that market.
I just wondered from a strategic standpoint how PM USA really thinks about that.
Yes let me tackle those in turn.
Good questions both.
You're right; Marlboro architecture has been a terrific boost for our business.
We've talked previously about having the flavor families and allowing different marketing approaches in the families and what it's done for marlboro.com has been great.
I think that's shown up in the performance of Marlboro.
With respect to any quantitative brand equity data we may talk about that some in CAGNY.
So if I could just ask you to hold tight on that I think we'll have some further information for you in that regard.
With respect to superpremium the way -- let me just mention a strategic approach to this which is we are always looking for places in the market where there is business where we either are under-indexed but we don't have an offering.
And so we look at things all the time.
And while I don't have anything to announce about that I can assure you we look at places to build our business both there and elsewhere.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Felberbaum of The Associated Press.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit more color more broadly on the strength of the Marlboro brands and how it's been able to sort of stave off some increased competition as well as whether that the economic -- the recovering economic situation? Well Marlboro is a fantastic product for adult smokers that comes with decades of leadership with lots of innovation and with lots of offerings for people who are in the category and it has consistently grown its share over decades.
We are the stewards of this brand and we pay a good deal of attention to Marlboro.
It speaks both to the product's function and to its equity and that's been Marlboro's story.
I’ve commented earlier on the call about -- we see that the economy is strengthening a bit hopefully for our adult tobacco consumers.
We certainly hope that's going to be the case in 2015.
End of Q&amp;A [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at investor relations.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our CAGNY presentation on February 18.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
And welcome to the Altria Group 2015 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria’s management and a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We are here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria’s CEO; and Billy Gifford Altria’s CFO to discuss Altria’s 2015 first quarter business results.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we’re comparing results to the same period in 2014.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our first quarter results.
For a detailed review of them please review the earnings release on our website at altria.com or via the Altria investor app.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today’s earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria’s Board.
The timing of share repurchases depends on marketplace conditions and other factors.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today’s call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations are included in today’s earnings release which is available on our website and via the Altria investor app.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Altria is off to a strong start in 2015.
Our core tobacco businesses continued to deliver on their strategies backed by the strengths of their leading premium brands.
Each of our reportable segments grew operating companies income and expanded their margins.
Altria grew its adjusted diluted EPS by 10.5% paid approximately $1 billion in dividends and repurchased 3.6 million shares in the first quarter and earlier this morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 full year adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7% to 9%.
Here are some important highlights from the quarter.
PM USA delivered on its smokable segment strategy of maximizing income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro over time.
This segment produced outstanding results in the first quarter driven by higher pricing higher volume and Marlboro retail share growth.
PM USA has invested steadily to strengthen Marlboro and those investments continue to pay-off.
As a result the smokable segment grew adjusted operating companies income by over 12% in the quarter.
PM USA’s reported cigarette shipment volumes grew 1.6% in the quarter benefiting from a moderation in the industry decline rate trade inventory movements and retail share gains.
In the machine made large cigar category John Middleton continued to strengthen its leadership position in the profitable tipped cigar segment.
The company posted strong double-digit volume growth in the quarter driven primarily by Black &amp; Mild.
In the smokeless product segment USSTC grew first quarter operating companies income by 5% and expanded its operating company income margin by one percentage point to over 63%.
USSTC estimates that its adjusted smokeless segment volumes grew approximately 4% in the quarter while smokeless industry volumes grew 2% over the past 12 months.
Copenhagen and Skoal grew their combined retail share by half of a percentage point in the quarter.
Turning to innovative tobacco products Nu Mark remains focused on building a robust portfolio of innovative tobacco products for adult smokers and vapors.
Nu Mark began shipping its next generation e-vapor product MarkTen XL into lead markets this month.
In the wine segment Ste.
Michelle posted a quarter of nearly 23% operating companies income growth primarily through improved premium mix.
In the first quarter equity earnings from SABMiller investment were negatively affected by SABMiller special items and unfavorable currency impacts from a stronger dollar.
The investment continues to support our strong balance sheet and provides cash flow through its dividend.
So we came into 2015 with momentum and our first quarter results reflect another quarter of strong execution against our well defined strategies.
We believe our businesses are positioned to help us deliver against our full-year guidance.
Billy Gifford will now discuss our business results in more detail.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Our smokable products segment helped drive adjusted diluted EPS growth of 10.5% in the first quarter.
The smokable products segment and fewer shares outstanding also contributed to that growth.
The smokable products segment delivered strong adjusted operating company’s income growth of 12.6% primarily driven by higher pricing higher shipment volume and lower resolution expenses due primarily to the end of the federal tobacco quota buyout payments.
Despite costs being higher in the quarter due primarily to higher pension and benefit cost and timing of SG&amp;A spending the smokable segment expanded its adjusted OCI margins by 2.3 percentage points.
Volume was also strong.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates that its first quarter cigarette shipment volume was essentially unchanged and that total industry volumes declined approximately 0.5%.
For the quarter PM USA grew Marlboro’s retail share by three-tenths of a share point to 44% and grew its total cigarette category retail share by fourth-tenths of a share point.
L&amp;M share gains also contributed to PM USA's first quarter performance as the brand continued to grow its share while the overall industry discount category declined in the quarter.
In the total machine-made large cigars category Black &amp; Mild’s retail share declined 0.6 points in the first quarter.
As Marty mentioned Middleton continued to concentrate on the more profitable tipped cigars segment where Black &amp; Mild gained share.
In the smokeless products segment operating companies income increased 5% in the first quarter as higher pricing was partially offset by higher promotional investments.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors USSTC estimates that its domestic smokeless product shipment volume grew approximately 4% in the quarter while the industry grew approximately 2% over the past 12 months.
Copenhagen and Skoal’s combined retail share grew five-tenths of a share point in the quarter to 51.2%.
Copenhagen’s retail share grew one share point while Skoal’s retail share declined five-tenths of a share point.
The wine segment delivered very strong results in the first quarter.
Ste.
Michelle grew operating companies income by 22.7% in the first quarter primarily driven by improved premium mix.
Shipments increased by 0.5% in the quarter.
That wraps up the operating results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled let us cover a few housekeeping items.
As a reminder comparisons when made are against the first quarter of 2014 unless we note otherwise.
Marlboro's price gap versus the lowest effective price cigarette was 31% in the first quarter down 2 percentage points.
For the first quarter Marlboro's net pack price was $6.06 up $0.15 and the lowest effective priced cigarette was $4.62 up $0.17.
The estimated weighted average cigarette state excise tax was $1.49 per pack for the first quarter up $0.01.
Wholesale inventory changes are one factor PM USA uses to estimate adjusted PM USA and industry volumes.
PM USA estimates that its wholesale inventories were approximately 2.6 billion units at the end of the first quarter of 2015 and 2.4 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter of 2014.
At the end of the first quarter of 2014 PM USA's wholesale inventories were estimated to be approximately 2.5 billion units.
PM USA estimates that cigarette industry wholesale inventory levels were 5.5 billion units at the end of the first quarter of 2015 and 5.4 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter of 2014.
PM USA estimates that first quarter of 2014 wholesale inventory levels were 5.5 billion units.
Copenhagen's price gap versus the leading discount brand was 29% in the first quarter down 3 percentage points.
Copenhagen's retail price was $4.22 in the first quarter up $0.13.
The price of the leading discount brand was $3.26 in the first quarter up $0.17.
CapEx was $48 million for the first quarter.
Ongoing depreciation and amortization was $49 million for the quarter.
Operator do we have any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Good morning guys.
Hello Owen.
And couple of questions please I mean firstly any commentary on Marlboro Black is that still taking share if you could say I mean how much of Marlboro share growth is being driven by Black and then secondly any update on recent market share trends for MarkTen.
I notice how you no longer have the statement about being amongst the top e-vapor brands nationally like you did at year end and should we read anything into that? Thanks very much.
Sure.
Let us start with Marlboro Black.
It continues to do a terrific job.
In fact it has grown for 17 consecutive quarters.
We don’t break the shares out by SKUs as you know Owen but Marlboro Black is doing a terrific job particularly in the important segment of adult smokers 21 to 29.
I hope you had a chance to see our remarks [Indiscernible] about our vapor business.
Our aspiration there is to succeed in the long term.
What that means is we are moving with appropriate dispatch but with financial discipline always learning from the consumer and frankly what we are working on principally right now in addition to our distribution and brand building is product development.
Consumers are telling e-vapor manufacturers that the products are not yet there.
That is why you see us improving our product development pipeline and to be sure share is important but it will be important as soon as the products are established with the consumers.
We are not unduly focused on share.
We are focused on getting the right products in the consumer’s hands.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks for calling.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Bonnie.
Hi.
My first question is on consumption given the strong industry cigarette volume and the decelerating smokeless industry volume do you have a sense of underlying total tobacco consumption when considering both of these categories and then do you believe it is rising and if so why? And then maybe touch on your outlook for the cigarette decline rate is the 3% to 4% decline rate realistic going forward? Okay great.
Thanks for those questions.
Let me start with cigarette volume.
We don’t forecast volume going forward as you know.
It has been 3% to 4% over the last several years and we think that you have to look at that over time.
To be sure this quarter is a break but it is only a quarter.
So we will have to see.
Probably the best answer to your question about consumption is the total consumption rate over the last several years as measured by government sources which has been declining at about call it 1% to 1.5% total pounds.
So that takes into account Bonnie all of the products that adult tobacco consumers are trying and of course it is a dynamic time.
We have seen more movement among the categories.
That is probably the best marker.
Yes.
I mean that was kind of the basis for my question because how smokers industry volume has been – has been performing not as well.
So I think there has been a lot of interplay between the two categories.
So you would agree with that? Yes and I think there is still growth there of course.
Right.
Sure it has just been [disarranged] slightly.
And then I did want to touch on MarkTen and just hear from you just any updates you have about recent consumer behavior for MarkTen and then could you talk about the revenue for the business given that was down quite a bit sequentially but was up year-over-year but I am trying to also understand how much of a drag potentially was in those numbers from your financial service business.
So if you could help me understand that that would be helpful? I will try to give you a little help.
It is in the all other category and so we don’t break it out too much under that.
But we are in investment mode.
That is the best way to understand it and in response to Owen’s question I pointed out that we have a lot of work underway to make sure that we have a robust portfolio of products because that is what the consumers are saying to everyone which is I’m willing to try these products but they are not quite there yet.
And so we are continually working to improve our offerings.
That is why we have come out with MarkTen XL twice the battery size and so forth.
And so I think that is the way to understand it and we are going to be investment mode here but we do it in a financially disciplined way always cognizant of our long-term financial goal of 7% to 9% growth in our EPS and we have been able to pull that off and I’m confident that we will over time.
Okay thank you and then speaking of MarkTen XL when do you expect that to be a nationwide expansion.
I think you mentioned you are growing out into lead markets and then how incremental do you anticipate this is going to be and how concerned are you with cannibalization for that extension? We will talk about national once we get into lead markets and we see how it does.
That is our innovation system which is to put products in consumers hands conducting experiments about whether the offering is interesting to them find out how we can improve it and then we roll forward and you saw that is how we did MarkTen.
I think that is what you should expect with MarkTen XL.
Okay and then just my final last question is your discount volume has been strong especially O&amp;M I like to hear what has been driving that especially given the stronger consumer and maybe here have you touched on how you are balancing the growth of this segment with margin expansion and what your strategy is in this space? Yes good questions both.
Look our focus is on the premium end of the business.
More than 90% of PM USA cigarette shipments are premium and that is where the action is for us.
But of course there is a discount segment out there.
It is declining over time.
The real reason that we are growing our discount business there is because of L&amp;M.
It is a terrific product that is priced competitively in the marketplace and it is doing great.
So it is not our principal focus but it does help the business albeit small.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks for your questions Bonnie.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Hi good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi.
Just had a question for you this is several quarters in a row where the price gap between Marlboro and the lowest priced product in the market has been down and you have been taking very strong [Indiscernible] two questions around that one would be as you look at your promotional setting overall in the quarter could you say that was up or down and I mean for the cigarette business overall and then is there any – are you pulling back on promotions say in the premium side versus discount to help widen that gap.
We seem to be in a little better economic situation today and perhaps that gap could widen a bit from this level? Okay.
Thanks for your questions.
Let me go at it this way.
We had net pricing realization in the cigarette – in the smokable segment of more than 5%.
So you can see that despite the fact that the price gap has narrowed we are as you point out taking strong pricing which is great.
The reason the price gap has narrowed in the quarter is because some discount brands increased their pricing faster than the premium brands did and that is what accounts for the math including some rounding frankly when you do the math and the price gaps.
So price gaps are a important metric as we have spoken about and we keep an eye on them but boy to have a quarter where we can grow our volume grow our margin get strong pricing realization you can see the result of that Chris with nearly 13% operating company income growth.
That is pretty good algorithm for us price gaps narrowing or not.
I don’t know Bill you want to say a word about promotional spend? Yes I think if you think about it Chris you will recall last year we actually had started dialing back promotional spend around Marlboro and so we’re lapping that as we go through the first quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks for your time today.
Thanks for calling in Chris.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
So I guess I wanted to just go back to the cigarette consumption question and I hear this is one quarter we really have to look at it on the longer term basis but I don’t recall a quarter where you had this kind of volume performance with the price growth that you are seeing across all the players.
So I’m just wondering if you could give us a little bit more color just in terms of the sustainability of this kind of performance within the current macro and competitive backdrop if there is anything in terms of the investments that a lot of the players have made and perhaps bring equity building initiatives are kind of driving some of that as well because it seems to kind of imply that historically when you saw the volume performance really come through typically it was associated with lower pricing and certainly that is not what we are seeing today? Yes.
Let me see if I can give you a bit more color to try to help you with it.
You are right.
It has been some time since we have seen numbers like this.
Part of it is the comp versus a year ago.
I mean the volume was down pretty significantly in the first quarter of ’14 as you remember.
But there is no denying that several factors are at play here.
The economy is improving.
It is improving for our consumer set finally happily after this very difficult time during the recession.
We have the phenomenon of dropping gas prices and if it occurs for us at a time after we have made very significant investments in Marlboro.
We implement the Marlboro architecture.
We launch Marlboro Black.
I would say all of those factors came together to contribute to what is a very strong quarter for PM USA.
That is our analysis for our business at least.
Okay.
And then Billy just thinking about the SABMiller contribution clearly the effects and some of the headwinds from a macro perspective is depressing SAB with contribution right now.
It is a business that obviously you don’t necessarily have a control over in terms of the operating performance.
How do you sort of think about your 7% to 9% earnings growth algorithm to the extent that if SABMiller the currency continues to weaken do you have levers either buyback or at the operating line that you can offset the weakness or because it is sort of outside of your control you kind of look at that as more of a transient factor? Yes Judy.
I think when you think about the SABMiller asset it has been a great asset for us.
It has performed very well.
We are talking about one quarter and you mentioned the negative drivers from that equity income year-over-year one being the special items which were primarily related to asset impairment and then the negative currency drag.
We don’t provide down to that level for the total year but now at the beginning of the year when we provide that guidance we incorporate a number of factors and SAB was incorporated in that.
Okay.
So basically you have a view of how SABMiller would perform throughout the year and that bakes – that is just baked into your guidance.
But to the extent the SABMiller piece gets worse than your anticipation I guess the question is really do you have other levers to kind of drive the offset? Yes I think Judy overall you heard us reiterate guidance today.
We feel good about that and we feel good about where the business is.
I do think Judy it is Marty that your reference to levers is exactly correct.
That is what differentiates the Altria offering.
We have numerous levers that we can use to try to meet our long-term goal of 7% to 9% and if you look over the last several years we have been able to do that has various businesses have been up or down.
Understood.
Okay thank you.
Thanks for your question.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Hi Matt.
Hi two questions one first I wanted to ask you about the performance in the smokeless products segment and specifically the acceleration in consumption for your products during the quarter improving to 4% Marty I just wanted your assessment of what actions you have taken or what factors during the quarter would have driven that acceleration is that a function of perhaps addressing the value proposition around some of the brands in the degree of pricing that you have taken or would you attribute some of that to tactical efforts that you have made on Skoal whether you are seeing any impact there? Sure.
I think you have identified the two drivers.
One is Copenhagen continues to grow strongly.
You see a share point in the quarter and I do think the actions we are taking on Skoal are improving.
In fact if you look at the quarterly results for Skoal it is down half a share point but it is the fourth consecutive quarter where it has narrowed those share losses year-over-year.
We gave it a new equity campaign.
We have terrific equity-based promotions I think that are improving its relationship with its consumer set and then as we have been working on the price gaps on Skoal Classic.
I think all of that is helping to steady up Skoal and that is spot on strategy for us.
So I think it is the combination of Copenhagen’s continued growth and our work on the value equation on Skoal.
Okay and I think we saw more improvement in [UST] volumes than we did for the category overall but would you say there is any change in the level of interaction between smokeless and other alternative – other smokable alternatives? Yes I know.
It is just hard to tease that out right now.
It has been a couple of quarters.
We do know that some of the growth previously in smokeless was due to cigarette smokers coming into the category.
We now know that there are vapor alternatives.
We now have a recovering economy.
It is just really hard to tease out Matt what exactly those factors are but we will be able to do it over time I would expect.
Okay thanks.
And just one question on the cigar performance as well just if you could help me better understand the mismatch between the volume growth in the market share trend? I know you are focused on tipped but with volumes up 10% and share down roughly 50 basis points does that imply that growth is up 15% 20% in untipped or is that just noise in the data? It is probably short term noise although untipped does continue to grow.
What we’re trying to do is to balance the share question with profitability and in this segment we always try to maximize income first.
So Black &amp; Mild happily has a very strong share position in the segment that is providing frankly most of the profitability and we think that is the better course at this time.
Okay great.
Thank you both.
Thanks for calling in.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
So not to labor the point but I also do have a question on smokeless tobacco Marty we talked a lot about price elasticity in cigarettes and clearly they are holding up quite well can you just remind us how you guys think about or chalk out price elasticity in the smokeless segment? Yes we have some proprietary models for that that allow us to try to get some sense.
They are not as highly developed as you might expect in a category that has been around as long as cigarettes but that is really a proprietary view of it which I’m not prepared to talk about on the phone candidly.
Okay fair enough.
As we look ahead to the mix shift that is ongoing in the cigarette segment is it wise to say if the consumer continues to hold up can you point back to another time where we have seen this much kind of trade up or resumption in trade up and how we should think about that trajectory continuing all else being equal from a macro perspective? Well we do know that when adult tobacco consumers are feeling better about their economic situation they want to be in premium brands.
And in this category the premium brand they want to be in is Marlboro.
We have seen that several times if you go back in history for example and you look at the [indiscernible] narrow price gaps got out of line the consumer was not feeling good about that.
You’re much too young to remember Vivien but people predicted that was going to be end of brands and so forth.
In effect it wasn’t it was that one the consumers thought that the price gap was appropriate.
They came right back rowing into Marlboro.
So Marlboro has that kind of equity and we would expect that as consumers continue to consolidate around premium brands that Marlboro will do just fine.
Terrific thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from [indiscernible].
Good morning.
Hi Michael.
Just back on Marlboro obviously it had a strong share performance in the quarter can you just highlight any of maybe what the key drivers were there and how much Rich Blue have contributed? It’s early for Rich Blue it’s having a nice little effect in a trace I would say Marlboro architecture Marlboro Black strong Marlboro equity those continue to be the drivers of Marlboro’s growth.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just looking at it on a longer view going back 5 6 years it’s up a little over 2 share points your discount share is up slightly as well but it is partly offset by about a 1.5 share loss for the other premium you just said obviously your premium focused company and clearly Marlboro is the focus and the star but is there anything you can do with the other premium brands that would make sense to invest there or is there any way how do you think about those as a piece of the puzzle and is there any way to hold or gain share in those that make sense? Yes that’s really a terrific question we do have these other terrific premium brands that we offer for adult smokers they don’t get a lot of support because frankly they have their franchise pretty settled and are very profitable.
But parliament is probably the best example we gave some limited support to parliament last year and it really paid back very well.
Our focus is Marlboro the other premium brands produce nice profitability contribution and if we can do some modest things for them that help stabilize their share well producing that profitability we’re open to that.
Okay that’s helpful thanks.
And then just lastly on maybe a little bit just broader view where do you see sort of risk is there near term or long term and just what do you kind of see as where the watch outs are what maybe specifically for this year in terms of what could put you at the lower end of the guidance or just longer term in terms of strategically? Well there is always risks in every business right and we kind of look at that at the beginning of the year and the category like this you’re always watching volume you’re watching your pricing power you’re watching regulation you’re watching excise tax I mean you’re competitive activity now those of all then well handled overtime and we have good plans and place for all of them but if you are trying to identify factors in this industry that present risk as well as opportunity those are probably some of them.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks for calling.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Thank you good morning.
Hi Bill.
Just kind of building off of Judy’s question I think from earlier in your comments Marty obviously there is a lot of top line momentum here and even underlying the consumer seems to be doing better and you pointed that the levers that you have across the P&amp;L just want to put into context your strong first quarter into context with your full year outlook of 7% to 9% earnings growth.
Is there anything specific we should be looking out for the spending ramp up is it just a matter of a tougher 4Q comparison anything specifically in there as you launch Nu MarkTen product anything that we should be looking out for? No I don’t think in particular.
I think Billy said it best earlier which is when we put the year together for our guidance there are always puts and takes and we look at the operating company performance and we look at SAD contribution you always look at exercise taxes and so forth and so on.
So I think the guidance that we put together which we reaffirm today just reflects our view particularly early in the year about we can do.
I think we pointed out previously I think when we gave the guidance we have got some pension and benefit expense which is flowing in.
We’re are winding up the Philip Morris Capital core business so it’s not contributing at the same rate it used to contribute at.
And we’re making discipline investments in the innovators space that’s probably the best way to look at that Bill.
Okay thank you.
And just a quick question.
I’m just a curious on your side as you see when your competitors go through the MRTP modified with tobacco product process with the FDA just wanted to get your thoughts about prospects for the PM technology – and if you had any idea of a timeline when you think that could be commercialized and kind of the process that you’re looking at going through onto get that into market? Yes that’s an interesting area to ask about thank you.
Listen one of the reasons we supported FDA was because this process now allows manufacturers to bring products to the FDA to try to see if we can get them qualified as modified risk or reduced risk.
And so the [indiscernible] was the first hearing and there was quite a lot of buzz about that but it was just a first hearing it was expected to be a long term project to bring these projects to market so I think I wouldn’t be over reading that too much.
We continue to work with BMI on our own process regarding heat not burn the first milestone to watch for will be the filing of the application.
And then hopefully the one after that will be its approval and that we continue to work in the meantime on our branding and marketing and go to market strategies as we’re very hopeful about that product and as you know we’ll have the exclusive on that product in the United States.
So we continue to pursue that.
Thank you.
Thanks for calling.
Thank you there are no further questions.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmus for any closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria's management and the question-and-answer session.
Representatives of the investment community and media will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We're here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria's CEO and Billy Gifford Altria's CFO to discuss Altria's 2015 second quarter and first half business result.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we're comparing the results to the same period in 2014.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding our second quarter and first half results.
For a detailed review of them please see our earnings release on our website at altria.com or via the Altria investor app.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today's earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria's board.
The timing of share repurchases depends on marketplace conditions and other factors.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that effect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings release which is available on our website and via the Altria investor app.
Now I'll turn the call over to Marty.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
Altria delivered excellent second quarter and first half results allowing us to raise our 2015 full year guidance earlier this morning.
We grew adjusted diluted earnings per share almost 14% in the second quarter and more than 13% for the first half of 2015 with a very strong performance from the smokeable product segment and solid contributions across our other businesses.
The smokeable segment continues to perform extremely well.
Adjusted operating companies income grew almost 16% in the second quarter and more than 14% for the first half on very strong fundamentals.
Marlboro delivered 0.3% of retail share growth in both the second quarter and the first half of 2015.
When adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates its volume grew approximately 1% in the second quarter and 0.5 percentage for the first half.
An improvement in the industry's rate of volume decline and retail share gains supported by relatively low gas prices and an improving economy drove PM USA's strong volume performance.
In addition strong net price realization and cost savings from the expiration of FETRA payments contributed to the double-digit adjusted OCI growth.
In smokeless products adjusted OCI grew 4.2% in the second quarter and 4.6% for the first half of 2015.
USSTC's estimate of smokeless industry volumes showed near-term improvement with growth over the past 12 months of approximately 3%.
This upturn in industry volume stems from similar economic factors as I've described in the smokeable product segment and adult tobacco consumers' continued exploration across tobacco categories.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors U.S.STC estimates its smokeless volume increased 2.5% in both the second quarter and the first half of 2015.
U.S.STC grew combined Copenhagen and Skoal share 0.1% in the second quarter and 0.3% for the first half to 51.1% in both periods in line with its strategy.
In the wine segment volume growth also helped drive another very strong performance from Ste.
Michelle.
Second quarter OCI increased 25% with volumes increasing nearly 9% and for the first half OCI grew 24%.
In innovative tobacco products MarkTen XL entered several lead markets in April.
And while it's still very early the results are encouraging.
Nu Mark also expanded Green Smoke e-vapor products into retail lead markets in June.
We're also continuing to complement our capabilities by partnering with others on innovative tobacco products.
As we announced recently we expanded our agreement with Philip Morris International to include a joint research development and technology sharing agreement.
As part of the agreement Altria and PMI will collaborate to develop e-vapor products for commercialization in the U.S.
by Altria and in markets abroad by PMI.
This supplements the agreement with PMI that we announced in 2013 and is the latest step in our ongoing portfolio approach to innovative product development and commercialization.
And of course we continue to deliver value to shareholders.
We paid approximately $2 billion in dividends in the first half of 2015.
We also recently completed our $1 billion share repurchase program purchasing approximately $263 million in shares in the second quarter and the remaining $63 million in July.
In addition Altria's board has authorized a new $1 billion program which we expect to complete by the end of 2016.
So in summary we're very happy with our first half performance and the investments we've made and are making behind our company's brands continue to pay dividends.
We remain confident in our strategies and in our ability to deliver long-term value to shareholders.
Thus we now expect to deliver adjusted diluted earnings per share growth in a range of $2.76 to $2.81 representing growth of 7.5% to 9.5% from our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.57.
Our guidance reflects a very successful first half and expectations that our businesses will continue to deliver solid results.
It also reflects more moderate adjusted diluted EPS growth in the second half of 2015 due to several factors.
These include lapping the effects of the improvements in the economy for adult tobacco consumers and lower gasoline prices expected trade inventory movements and the effect of state excise tax increases.
And the comparative benefit from the expiration of the federal tobacco quota buyout payments ends in the fourth quarter and we now estimate our full year effective tax rate on operations will be 35.3%.
Now I'll turn things over to Billy who will give us some more detail.
Thanks Marty and good morning everyone.
Strong performance in the smokeable products segment helped drive our earnings growth in both the second quarter and first half of 2015.
Higher pricing and volumes and lower FETRA expense drove adjusted OCI growth of nearly 16% in the second quarter and over 14% for the first half.
These factors were partially offset by an increase in pension and benefit cost and investments in brand equity in both the second quarter and first half of 2015.
The smokeable products segment continued to expand margins.
Adjusted OCI margins increased by 3.3 percentage points to 47.5% for the second quarter and by almost 3 points to 47% for the first six months.
Driven in part by Marlboro's momentum PM U.S.A grew its overall retail share by 0.5% in both the second quarter and the first half achieving second quarter retail share of 51.4%.
L&amp;M also turned in another strong performance despite a declining discount segment.
PM U.S.A's reported cigarette shipment volume growth benefited from trade inventory movements and we expect these inventories to moderate going forward.
When adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors PM U.S.A estimates that industry cigarette volumes were unchanged in the second quarter and down slightly for the first half of 2015.
Also with respect to the cigarette business seven states enacted excise tax increases with five taking effect July 1.
We anticipate these SET increases will result in weighted average SET increase of $0.04 per pack through the end of 2015.
Machine-made large cigars also contributed to the smokeable segment's strong performance.
Cigar shipment volumes increased about 1% in the second quarter and over 5% for the first half.
And Middleton sustained Black &amp; Mild's very high share position in the high margin tipped cigars segment.
In smokeless products higher pricing helped drive adjusted OCI growth in both the second quarter and first half of 2015.
Adjusted OCI margins contracted slightly to 66.4% in the second quarter and improved 0.4% to nearly 65% year-to-date.
In the wine segment increased shipments and improved premium mix drew strong OCI results for the second quarter and the first half of 2015.
OCI margins expanded 2.5 points in the second quarter and almost 3 points for the first six months.
In the all other category lower OCI for both the second quarter and the first half was primarily driven by a decrease in residual values of certain aircraft at Phillip Morris Capital Corp.
And finally Altria recorded earnings from our SABMiller investment of $225 million in the second quarter and $359 million for the first half.
That wraps up our results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled I'll direct your attention to altria.com.
Along with today's earnings release for your reference we posted a list of quarterly metrics to include pricing inventory and other items.
Operator do we have any questions? Thank you.
Investors analysts and media representatives are now invited to participate in the question-and-answer session.
We will take question from the investment community first.
Our first question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Nice results today.
Congratulations on those.
I just had two questions for you if I could.
The first one just to understand on the inventory movements and certainly a benefit in the first half should we therefore assume they come out in the second half? And I guess related to that inventory I should say volumes for the category have been quite strong.
Has there been any net/net increase in inventory at retail because of the strength in volume across the category? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Chris I think you're right to believe that the inventories will smooth themselves out in the back half.
You know for PM U.S.A as you know generally they do smooth themselves out over the course of the year.
Billy has called out the inventory movements that we saw in the quarter and so on a comparative basis we benefited from that in the second quarter and those should smooth themselves out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I had just one question if I could on all the division and really on MarkTen.
Just to understand obviously now you're rolling out MarkTen XL and certainly Green Smoke so you're still going to be it seems like in sort of a trial building phase.
So I'm just trying to understand the investments and the promotions behind MarkTen.
Are those changing? Are those still going to be geared towards trial? Or are those kind of adapting to a product line that's been in the market for a while now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah let me try provide you some help on that.
What we're trying the do is we discussed at some length I think at Investors' Day is to make sure that we're getting the product right.
And so we have I think a very significantly improved product in MarkTen XL.
The Green Smoke product is an excellent product.
And so Chris we're trying to get those out in lead markets.
We're trying to do the promotion that's necessary to get trial on those products learn whether we've got the product proposition right.
As we've said before we want to move forward with dispatch but we want to do that in a financially disciplined way and we always want to be learning from the consumer.
And the way you do that is you put these new kinds of products in market and you let the consumer guide your way forward.
That's how we're thinking about both of those lead markets right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Well thank you for your time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you for calling.
Your next question comes of the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Bonnie.
Hi.
I guess my first question is on your new guidance.
I'm trying to get a sense for how conservative it might be since you mentioned it implies slower EPS in the second half of this year which suggests only around 5% EPS growth I guess at the midpoint of your range.
So given the strength of your underlying business I'm trying to understand how big of a drag on earnings you really expect from some of the items you mentioned this morning and then that were in your press release.
I was hoping you could drill down a little bit more on some of these headwinds for us please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay well let me try to give you some context for that.
I mean to begin the guidance that we have now for 2015 is above our long-term growth aspiration of 7% to 9%.
Indeed I think it's the highest that it's been in some period of time.
So there's no question that we are having a strong year.
We're very pleased with the performance of the business.
So I think we should begin with that.
But we grew 13% in the first half and so we've recognized that we're starting to lap some benefits that likely contributed for example to the volume.
So we know that the consumer the adult tobacco consumer began to feel better in the back half of the year.
We had the sharp drop in gasoline prices and that's going to be lapped in the back half.
Billy has called out the end of FETRA payments in the fourth quarter.
We're going to have an increase in our tax rate.
And so those kind of benefits have all been taken into account.
As we said regularly when we've talked about guidance it's always a series of puts and takes.
And in addition we have some excise tax increases that we're going to have to see.
So we think that represents our best judgment.
I think it's a very strong performance 7.5% to 9.5% off of a already high Altria base.
So that's the way we're thinking about it for the second half.
Okay.
And then I have a two-part question on Marlboro.
First I was hoping you could drill down further on what drove the impressive share gains behind the brand.
And then how much of the gains were driven by some of your relatively new line extensions? Or has your core Marlboro continued to improve and contribute to some of these gains? And then secondly I guess I'd be curious to hear more about your innovation pipeline.
You did touch on this recently at your Investor Day but do you have any more details to share with us at this time of potential new products that might hit the market later this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Good questions.
Thanks.
Let me take the second one first because it's easiest.
We do have lots of innovation in the Marlboro pipeline but we're not prepared to announce it this morning.
So I will announce it in due course.
Listen the fact on Marlboro is Marlboro is strong across the franchise.
The Marlboro architecture has done its work and continues to do its work.
So we are strong both at the core and we are strong on the innovative products that you've made reference to.
And in particular Marlboro Black just continues to do gangbusters.
It's the eighteenth quarter in a row that we've gained share there.
It's doing a very nice job in the important 21 to 29 segment.
So we're very pleased with total Marlboro.
And I think Marlboro is performing as well as we've seen it record share this quarter.
All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling Bonnie.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Vivien.
So I wanted to ask a question about the health of the consumer.
I think it seems reasonable that the benefits clearly are going to lap.
But as you think about the back half of the year and your expectations around the health of the consumer is it that the consumer doesn't get any healthier from here? Or are you expecting a weakening in the consumer landscape given rising retail gas prices? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think it's more the lapping effect Vivien for us.
I mean there's no question that the adult tobacco consumer is stronger in 2015 as I think we predicted earlier in the year.
We're getting some moderate benefit from that.
We're simply pointing out that for example does anybody think there's going to be another $0.80 drop in gasoline prices in the second half of 2015 compared to what happened to gasoline prices in 2014.
So we're merely pointing out the comparative effect of 2014 over 2015.
But to be clear we think that the adult tobacco consumer continues to feel better.
Housing starts are up.
Unemployment is down.
Consumer confidence aside from maybe a little squiggle yesterday consumer confidence is over 100.
That all bodes well for the consumer.
Terrific.
That's very helpful.
And my second question has to do with the cigarette landscape.
Premium continues to gain share.
Clearly that is benefiting Marlboro.
Is that a dynamic that you expect to continue? And if not what would disrupt that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I sure hope so.
And you're right that the premium segment has never been stronger.
I saw a number the other day I think it's as high as it's been in the last 15 years.
And that's good for us because of our premium positioning.
It's great for Marlboro.
There's no question that there's been some uptrading across CPDG generally when you look at the data as you know and certainly that has been true for our franchise.
So you would hope and expect that will continue as long as the adult tobacco consumer continues to feel like they're in a better economic circumstance.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for the call.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Owen.
I have a couple of questions please.
And firstly I know early days but are you seeing any disruption at trade as a result of the Reynolds/Lorillard deal? And if so do you think you will be able to take advantage of this with regards to taking share? And then secondly just coming back to e-vapor and the business progression there is this any nearer to becoming profitable or are we still some way from that and investment remains the priority at present? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bill you want to take the first one? Sure.
Owen thanks for the question.
As far as the disruption in the marketplace what we're really focused on is our kind of flawless execution in the marketplace.
So we focus on executing our initiatives at retail.
If there is disruption we're not paying attention to it.
We're really focused on how do we execute flawlessly.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And on vapor we're going to be in investment mode for a while.
The category is early.
I made reference earlier I think to product development building distribution building the brand.
So we'd expect that this is going to be an investment category for us.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for the questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Michael.
So Marlboro's doing extremely well and the uptrading is obvious and premium is healthy but I guess maybe switching gears just a bit L&amp;M was up sharply and certainly had outsized share gains for the size of that business.
Can you just give a little color on maybe what's driving that? Is there anything in particular there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I think L&amp;M is consolidating share in the declining discount segment.
That segment goes down which of course for us is fine because we're in the premium end of the business but L&amp;M is a terrific offering for adult tobacco consumers there and it's picking up share in that segment.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then just looking at iQOS can you give us a sense of the timing towards the steps towards an eventual launch? And I know that obviously it involves the FDA so it's inherently unpredictable but maybe just handicap kind of what your guess is of when that might be able to take place.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we're continuing to work very hard with PMI on iQOS and I would say there's two tracks Michael.
The first track is the FDA track.
The first milestone there will be the filing of an application to seek a claim on that and then hopefully the second milestone will be the approval of that claim.
Meanwhile and contemporaneously we are working on marketing plans and go-to-market strategies packaging branding.
We're doing that work side by side so that we'll be ready hopefully to go when the FDA approves an application.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then just lastly on 3Q we've got roughly a month already in.
Have you seen any change yet in consumer sentiment? I know that sort of measured consumer sentiment score is only kind of a wiggle.
Are you seeing anything in terms of retail changes yet as far as a slowdown or is it still holding up quite nicely? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know that's a nice try to get me to talk about the quarter that's not yet done Michael.
So just hang on for me will you and we'll talk about Q3 when we get to Q3.
All right.
No problem.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thanks for your time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
See you.
Media representatives are now invited to participate in the question-and-answer session.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Judy.
So Marty I guess just in terms of thinking about pricing so obviously your manufacturer pricing continues to be pretty healthy.
If I just look at retail pricing though it's been going up more in the low single-digit rate and the gap has sort of continued to trickle down between Marlboro and the lowest priced brands.
So just conceptually what are some of the milestones that you're looking to get to sort of perhaps widen that gap going forward and with related to obviously the SET going up how you think that the gap will kind of play out over the next six months or so? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we'll have to see over the next six months.
I mean you know our strategy is we're trying to maximize income so from a manufacturer's pricing point of view we're always trying to do our part on pricing and you see that with pricing up nearly 5% for the first half.
So the SETs do have some effect of course.
I think the estimate of the volume of the SETs we've seen is it's on about 10% of the volume and the rates varied kind of widely.
So we'll have to see what the effect of that is.
And then of course pricing at retail ultimately is up to the retailers and the strategies that they employ in the cigarette category.
So we're focused obviously on manufacturer profitability and I think we've been doing a pretty good job lately in that regard.
Okay.
And then Billy just following up on the back half guidance I could appreciate obviously the volume comparisons may be more challenging and you've got the inventory movement that perhaps does impact volume more negatively but if I kind of look at your six months operating profit per $1 000 on your smokeable kind of running around $60 or so would there be any reason to think that that steps down meaningfully sequentially in the back half? Yeah thanks for the question Judy.
I think when you think about it from a cost perspective Marty mentioned earlier the expiration of the quota.
We got the benefit of that in the fourth quarter of last year so that's another item we'll be lapping.
And then the only other item is as we continue to stress the increase in pension and benefits that we have in the year approximately $100 million that is evenly spread basically throughout the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling in.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Bill.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just wondering if we could talk a little bit about the smokeless segment.
We've seen that category -- obviously the run rate on growth has remained a little bit lower than the historic norm for a couple of quarters consecutively.
I think in the past we've talked about the interplay between smokeless and some of the new products like e-cigarettes so I'm curious to get your thoughts on if that's still the case.
And then looking at your portfolio obviously Copenhagen doing very very well.
Just the interplay between Copenhagen and Skoal and kind of your plans for those two brands going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Good questions both.
I think tobacco consumers are trying different categories and you have to measure these things over time.
And so if you look it was growing at about 5.5%.
This is industry volume.
It fell back to about 2% and now we've seen an uptick to 3%.
So some of that probably is due to both movement of dual users between combustible products and smokeless products as well as people experimenting with vapor and a few people sticking with vapor.
So those are probably the right factors to think about there.
Listen Copenhagen is doing terrific work and I think that we're on the path to stabilizing Skoal.
Our strategy is to grow them together and actually we did that.
So you can see it grew 0.3% for the half for share together and actually and their combined volume was higher than our estimate for industry volume.
So Copenhagen is a terrific brand.
Skoal has a little bit of a harder job in that it has to compete with its principal competitor and it competes with Copenhagen.
And so we've been working on the value equation and we're encouraged by what we've seen there.
I think the way to think about this is the long-term strategy is well in place and it continues to deliver.
You see the income growth for the half.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call back over to Sarah Knakmuhs for closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Thank you all for joining us this morning and if you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This has concluded today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria's management and a question-and-answer session.
Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We're here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria's CEO and Billy Gifford Altria's CFO to discuss Altria's 2015 third quarter and nine month business result.
Earlier today we issued a press release regarding these results.
For a detailed review please see the earnings release on our website at altria.com or through the Altria investor app.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we're comparing results to the same period in 2014.
Our remarks contain certain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today's earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria's board.
The timing of share repurchases depends on marketplace conditions and other factors.
Altria reports its results in accordance with the U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings release which is available on our website and via the Altria investor app.
Now I'll turn the call over to Marty.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report yet another strong quarter for Altria Group.
We delivered outstanding performance in the third quarter and for the first 9 months of 2015.
We grew adjusted diluted earnings per share 8.7% in the quarter and 11.5% for the year-to-date.
Each of our reporting segments has contributed to our strong earnings performance especially the smokeable product segment led by the terrific Marlboro brand.
So let's begin there.
The smokeable product segment grew adjusted operating company's income more than 11% in the third quarter and over 13% for the first 9 months.
For the year-to-date solid net price realization the benefit from the end of the federal tobacco quota buyout payments and higher volume continue to support double-digit adjusted OCI growth and good margin expansion.
The industry continued to benefit from near-term moderation in cigarette volume declines which combined with PM USA share gains resulted in strong volume results for PM USA.
Reported cigarette shipment volume for the quarter was up one-tenth of a percent.
After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates that its cigarette volume was unchanged in the third quarter.
For the year-to-date reported cigarette shipment volume grew 1.5% and PM USA estimates that its adjusted cigarette volume increased approximately five-tenths of a percent versus the year-ago period.
In line with strategy Marlboro gained one-tenth of retail share in the third quarter and two-tenths for the year-to-date.
So our investments in the Marlboro architecture continue to pay off and by all key measures – OCI margin price realization volume and share – our smokeable segment is performing very well.
Turning to the smokeless product segment USSTC delivered income growth and combined retail share growth on Copenhagen and Skoal.
The smokeless product segment grew adjusted OCI 2.5% in the third quarter and almost 4% for the first nine months primarily through higher pricing partially offset by higher promotional investments and SG&amp;A expenses.
The iconic Copenhagen brand remained the fastest-growing brand in the category with eight-tenths of retail share growth for the first nine months of 2015.
And thanks to investments in Skoal's equity and overall value equation the brand's retail share declines continued to moderate.
Our objective remains to seek combined share momentum on these two brands in this competitive category.
The wine business continued its strong performance.
Ste.
Michelle grew OCI almost 13% in the third quarter and nearly 20% for the year to-date primarily through increased volume and improved premium mix.
In innovative tobacco products Nu Mark continues pursuing disciplined innovation in e-vapor.
We've seen encouraging trial on MarkTen XL allowing us to expand our lead market presence.
Nu Mark also continues its in-store evaluation of Green Smoke's retail positioning.
We focused first on getting the product right and we're learning a great deal about the adult tobacco consumer response.
We are optimistic about these brands as we move forward.
And of course Altria continued to return cash to shareholders.
We paid approximately $3 billion in dividends in the first nine months of 2015.
Additionally we raised our quarterly dividend by 8.7% in August to an annualized rate of $2.26 per share marking our 49th dividend increase in 46 years.
We remain focused on our target dividend payout ratio of 80% of adjusted diluted EPS.
So our year-to-date results have been very strong and we are happy with our progress against our full-year plans.
Thus we reaffirm that we expect to deliver adjusted diluted EPS in a range of $2.76 to $2.81 representing growth of 7.5% to 9.5% from our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.57.
This guidance reflects expected moderated EPS results in the fourth quarter as compared to last year due to several factors we've discussed previously including lapping the benefit from the expiration of federal tobacco quota buyout payments lapping some of the effects of a stronger economy and lower gasoline prices and a higher effective tax rate on operations.
Additionally trade inventories for cigarettes may moderate going forward and unfavorable foreign currency translation could affect prior-year comparisons of earnings from Altria's equity investment in SABMiller.
Finally let us provide you with a word on the proposed AB InBev combination with SABMiller.
We know there is a great deal of interest in this transaction and we look forward to providing the details for us at the appropriate time.
But as I hope you can appreciate we have to wait until final terms have been reached before doing so.
But until then here's a brief update and some background on this transaction.
Earlier this month AB InBev and SABMiller announced an agreement in principle on key terms regarding a possible transaction between the two companies.
Yesterday AB InBev and SABMiller jointly announced that the U.K.
takeover panel has extended the relevant deadline until November 4 2015.
We are pleased to see this transaction moving forward and that the parties are reporting progress has been made including AB InBev's completion of confirmatory due diligence of SABMiller reconfirming the financial and other terms of the possible offer and confirming the availability of financing facilities.
The extension gives AB InBev and SABMiller additional time to finalize the details necessary for AB InBev to announce a firm intention to make an offer for SABMiller.
As you know Altria has been a shareholder of SABMiller since 2002.
Indeed its largest shareholder.
The SABMiller stake has provided us with access to the global brewing profit pool diversified our business contributed nicely to our long-term earnings growth and strengthened our balance sheet.
Of course the approach we have always taken is to manage that asset for the best interest of Altria's shareholders.
We believe that combining the largely complementary businesses of SAB and AB InBev to create the world's largest brewer is a compelling opportunity.
So we are excited about the proposed transaction and are working constructively with the parties to complete the transaction.
And with that I'll turn things over to Billy.
Thanks Marty and good morning everyone.
As Marty mentioned stronger volume in the smokeable product segment helped deliver adjusted OCI growth for the first nine months.
When adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates that industry cigarette volume was down 1% in the third quarter and five tenths of a percent for the first nine months.
In addition to retail share gains on Marlboro L&amp;M also gained share allowing PM USA's total retail share to hit 51.3% for both the quarter and first nine months.
This represents an increase of four tenths of retail sharepoint and half a retail sharepoint respectively from the year-ago periods.
Cigar volume growth also contributed to the smokeable product segment's results.
Middleton's reported shipment volume increased just over 1% in the third quarter and nearly 4% for the first nine months.
And contributions from Black and Mild Jazz and Casino helped Black and Mild grow its leading position in the high margin cigar segment.
In fact Black and Mild Casino was recently recognized by CSP magazine as the 2015 retailer's choice best new product in the cigar category.
In total the smokeable product segment increases adjusted OCI margins by 2.7 points in the third quarter to 47%.
For the year-to-date adjusted OCI margins in the smokeable product segment expanded 2.8 points.
In the smokeless product segment USSTC reported shipments increased approximately 1% in the third quarter and 2% for the first nine months.
We estimate that smokeless industry volume has grown approximately 2.5% over the past six months.
In both the third quarter and for the first nine months Copenhagen and Skoal grew their retail share on a combined basis.
In the third quarter higher pricing was partially offset by higher promotional investments and SG&amp;A expenses resulting in adjusted OCI margins contracting 1.1 percentage points to 63.8%.
For the year-to-date adjusted OCI margins narrowed one tenth of a percentage point to 64.5%.
In the wine segment reported shipment volumes have remained robust growing at nearly 9% in the third quarter and over 6% for the first 9 months.
OCI margins expanded eight tenths of a percentage point to 21.7% in the third quarter and over two points to 21.7% for the year-to-date.
Additionally Altria reported equity earnings from our SABMiller investment of $187 million in the third quarter and $546 million for the year-to-date.
And finally you'll remember we completed our $1 billion share repurchase program early in the third quarter and that our board authorized a new $1 billion program which we expect to complete by the end of 2016.
That wraps up our results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled I'll direct your attention to Altria.com.
Along with today's earnings release for your reference we posted a list of quarterly metrics to include pricing inventory and other items.
Operator do we have any questions? Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bonnie.
I have a two-part question on Marlboro.
First could you talk a little bit more about your new Marlboro line extension Marlboro Midnight and then how that brand will be positioned relative to the rest of the Marlboro portfolio? And then second I'd be curious to hear more about your Marlboro app and your goals for this new technology? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for those questions.
I think they both represent good examples of how Marlboro is innovating at the core of our business.
We talk about innovation in the innovative product side but it's important to remember that innovation is everywhere and boy at Marlboro you see it all the time.
So Marlboro Midnight is the latest innovation under the architecture; it will come out in the Black family.
It is a unique and a bold menthol for Marlboro and should help Marlboro participate in the growing menthol category has a very differentiated and unique pack.
It's going to be supported with beautiful POS to raise awareness among adult smokers.
And we'll position it as a new and exciting product in the Marlboro family particularly for menthol smokers.
So we are excited about Midnight and I think it is off to a good start.
I think it's going to hit wholesale if I recall Bonnie in mid-November and it'll be retail a couple of weeks after that.
So you will be seeing it there.
And on the digital side we continue to see strong innovation as well.
We now have mobile couponing as you know that coupons can be delivered to adult smokers' smartphones.
It's a tremendous step forward in terms of efficiency and meeting adult smokers where they are.
That is now available nationally and we have launched a Marlboro app.
It's available on the two large app platforms it's responsibly done age-verified.
And it will be a place for the brand to connect again with adult smokers in a very innovative way in the digital space.
So we are excited about both those innovations.
No that makes a lot of sense.
And then just to clarify on the app I mean is the goal there to increase customer engagement? And then could we also see more efficient promos and maybe a reduction in expenses because of this app rollout? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All of the above.
What we are trying to do is connect the brand to its adult smokers and the app obviously gives us another way of doing that in addition to all of the other marketing tools that the Marlboro team is doing such a good job with.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I have a question on your smokeless business.
You generated higher pricing in the business and then Copenhagen volume was strong but margins were down a bit.
So could you talk about some of the dynamics at play here and then how sustainable this better pricing is with share gains for Copenhagen? And then Skoal still seems to be quite weak and underperforming so any updated plans to turn this around? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me mention one or two things and then I'll ask Billy to maybe comment on the cost side.
Actually we are pretty spot-on strategy in the smokeless business I would say.
You know our strategy there is to grow our income by growing volume in line or better if we can with the category and of course the category volume has picked back up again we estimate about 2.5%.
And actually you see Copenhagen and Skoal combined doing a little bit better than that at about 2.9%.
Copenhagen is growing you're right and Skoal doesn't grow share.
But I would point out that I think we've begun to moderate the share.
If you look at it sequentially it's at 19.8 share points I think if you look at the year-to-date number Bonnie.
And boy I'll tell you we're glad to have 20 share points of Skoal business in this category that has 65% operating margins.
So Skoal can always work harder.
It's got to compete with both Copenhagen and its principle competitor.
But we are pretty pleased.
I think they are having a solid performance over there and maybe Billy can comment on your cost question.
Sure Bonnie.
When you look at it if you look at it on a year-to-date basis you can see margins are basically flat as Marty mentioned right around the 65% margin base.
When you look at a quarter-to-quarter comparison or a shorter period of time you can see fluctuations based on the timing of expenses flowing through.
So again I think if you look at it on a year-to-date the margins are very high compared to other consumer products categories and virtually flat.
Okay.
Thank you everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling in Bonnie.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Michael good morning.
Could you just talk about your market share momentum a little bit? You're still getting the modest momentum on Marlboro but also a very strong lift from discount.
Just how do you prioritize that or balance that? Obviously you don't want to turn away discount share but certainly your focus has always been on Marlboro.
So what are some of the priorities there and have you seen any sort of changes? This is the first full quarter since the competitor's transaction closed.
Are you seeing any different competitive landscape? Obviously it looks like L&amp;M is still going quite strong.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah sure good questions.
We have not seen any changes to take the last part first.
We do want to modestly keep momentum on Marlboro.
You've heard us say this before Michael call it a tenth or two-tenths maybe a year and you can see that year-to-date that is exactly where we are in Marlboro.
Our focus is on premium 90% of those shipments for PM USA are premium.
But L&amp;M has a role to play and what it does is it competes nicely in the discount space without growing it.
The industry as a whole is moving more towards premium and so what you see is that L&amp;M is basically consolidating share out of the other discount players so it works spot-on strategy for PM USA.
That's been the strategy and that's how we are still thinking about it.
Okay.
Great.
And then just a follow-up on Bonnie's question about Midnight.
Could you just maybe give a sense of magnitude or how maybe it compares to something like Rich Blue which was another new extension in the menthol segment but seems to have been a little more limited in scale? Does this have any -- I think Rich Blue had a geographical like a regional focus.
Is this national or does it have any geographical focus? And is it priced similar to the rest of Black at the introductory level or does it have a different price point? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's going to be national and we'll do some special price promotions to go along with the POS so that we can promote trial.
Again in this category where you don't have a lot of the traditional marketing tools the place where you have to meet adult smokers to let them try new products is at retail.
So we'll have some price promotions there.
But basically Michael it will be the same strategy.
We want them to try the brand we want them to be aware of it and then obviously as these brands get traction we can dial back the promotions so as to pursue our strategy of maximizing the income out of this category.
And then just in terms of scale would this likely be a bigger opportunity than something like a Rich Blue or can you put any context around what you might expect from it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I won't get ahead of our skis on that except to tell you that we are very excited about the brand.
I think it's a terrific product.
I think the package looks fabulous and I think it's going to be very exciting for adult menthol smokers to try and we are hopeful of getting conversion from competitive smokers.
All right.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Vivien.
I wanted to also follow-up on the new Marlboro line extension; sorry to belabor the issue.
I was just curious given that one of your competitors had to pull a couple of SKUs out of the market because the FDA did not deem them to be substantially equivalent.
Whether this is innovation that is already grandfathered in or was marketed as a different Marlboro variant and is being transitioned from a tracking perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I don't want to get too tactical how we bring our products to market under the FDA regime but we are confident that we are fully qualified to bring that product to market.
Okay fair enough.
On the inventory levels obviously like the market share momentum has been good and easing industry volumes are certainly I think helping but as I look across your wholesale inventories they've been growing sequentially for about five quarters now.
So I'm just curious to hear your thoughts on kind of what the right level of wholesale inventories is as we think about the central unwind in the fourth-quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well they go up and down over the course of the year.
They usually smooth out for us over the course of the year for PM USA.
We do have this trend this year of course where the volume declines have not been proceeding at the same pace as before so there has been probably a little bit of disruption there.
You know Vivien if you look at the quarterly comparisons in Q3 there is not much to say about that.
They look to have about the same effect.
But you're right they are a little bit higher at the end of Q3 than they were at the end of Q3 last year.
So that is why we've called out in our release and also in our script that they may moderate in the fourth-quarter.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And Billy just one for you.
I recognize currency has been a challenge for a lot of multinationals for quite some time.
So as I look at the SABMiller numbers this quarter in isolation I appreciate the drag from currency but as I look across prior quarters it feels like kind of there was like a currency catch-up or – I'm just having a hard time understanding why there was such a big hit this quarter than we hadn't been seeing given where the dollar has been trending for over a year now.
Sure.
Thanks for the question Vivien.
I think you have to step back first and just put in context the overall Altria enterprise.
When you think about the earning streams we have we have very limited impact to foreign currency exposure.
Specific to SAB you're right the primary driver there is foreign currency and it is really the strengthening of the dollar against their various emerging market currencies as well as currencies around the world.
That is something that we have experienced year-to-date as well as in the third quarter and I think it is very reminiscence of what you're seeing with other global companies.
But nothing in particular to call out in 3Q for SABMiller? Nothing in particular no.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling.
Our next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett with Nomura.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Owen.
Hey I just wanted to get your views on the cigarette industry volumes for the year.
Obviously a bit of a slowdown into the second half which you said was to be expected but I was just wondering your views on how you see volumes for the full year now? And then also you noted the stabilization in smokeless industry volumes now which is encouraging.
I was just wondering how you see the smokeless category trending from here.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the questions.
So year-to-date our estimate of industry volume decline is down a half.
That obviously is a difference from what the historical trend has been of somewhere between 3% to 4% and we'll just have to see going forward what the effect is going to be.
But historically the long-term trend is more like 3% to 4% on the smokeable side.
On the smokeless side several years ago they were growing at the industry volume was growing at 5-ish%.
Then it fell basically to nothing and now we're trending back up where our estimate for the latest six months is about 2.5%.
So it's good news that the volume has come back into the category.
And probably the principle driver there is that tobacco consumers continue to try different tobacco products throughout the categories.
That probably explains the greatest part of the change in the volume trend there.
But we're glad that the volumes are back.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for the call Owen.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Judy.
Welcome.
So Billy I actually do want to go back to Vivien's questions about the equity income because I still can't reconcile why the third quarter was down so much more than what we had been seeing in the first half of the year.
So it just doesn't seem to kind of jive with the first half.
You were down I think in the low single digits on a year-over-year basis and then in the third quarter that drop-off was much more significant.
So I know there is a little bit of a sensitivity around what you can say about that performance but just anything that we should be aware of just in terms of the third quarter impact? No Judy.
I basically would reiterate what I said to Vivien.
I think when you look at it it really is primarily driven by the currency impacts that you see in other global companies.
Any time you look at a short-term period you're going to see those fluctuations through time.
I think if you look at it over the long term it is very similar to what you're seeing with other global companies with currency impacts.
But thanks for the question.
Okay.
And then maybe just in terms of fourth quarter guidance and I know you talked about the comparison getting a little bit tougher.
Obviously the FX it sounds like it's going to be another drag in terms of the fourth quarter.
If I just looked at your smokeable segment in the fourth quarter last year though it doesn't look like the profitability comparisons are that much tougher.
So is this really more of an FX issue? Are any other investments that we should be thinking about in the fourth quarter if you do get some volume upside that potentially you're looking to reinvest back the upside into any of those initiatives? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I wouldn't read that into what we said.
Honestly the factors that we think are going to cause the moderation are called out in the release and in our remarks this morning.
We are lapping a very significant effect from the quota and we believe that even though the adult tobacco consumer is doing much better we are lapping the period where they got the effect towards the back end of last year in terms of gasoline prices and the like.
So it's nothing more than that.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for the questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Matt.
Hi.
So two questions.
First I wanted to come back to smokeless.
And I guess the level of net pricing was a bit higher than what we have seen recently both in absolute terms and on a year-on-year basis.
And this sort of comes against the backdrop of still somewhat choppy category growth and we've talked in the past about the factors playing into that.
I'm fishing a little bit here but has there been any shift in the way you're thinking about that balance between volume and pricing realization in that business over the near term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No the strategy remains the same.
When I look at the pricing it's up on a per-can basis about 3% call it for the quarter.
But actually if you look at it year-to-date Matt it's about 2% 1.9% or something.
So naturally we're happy to have the pricing there but with a category with 65% operating margins and where we've got more than 50% of the share we are trying to grow income principally through volume gains.
Okay.
Thanks Marty.
And two questions on vapor.
One we've seen more volatility in e-cigarette category growth at least in measured channels recently and I know it's hard to gauge.
But do you have a sense of the level of growth that we're seeing in the overall vapor category to the extent you can track that? And then - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
– and then secondly just on deeming.
Have you had any dialogue with the FDA recently to get a sense of – not so much on timing but any shift in their thinking as they are working toward a final rule on the deeming of other tobacco products? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the questions good ones both.
The answer to the first question is e-vapor growth has slowed down this year.
So we had triple-digit gains year-over-year a couple of years ago and then 50-ish% last year and it's obvious that while the category continues to grow it's not growing at anywhere near that rate.
With respect to deeming we know that the reg as you know has gone to OMB but we do not have any insight into what they took onboard.
I know there were lots of comments including ours that were filed in respect of the proposed deeming regulation but we don't have any insight into what they have sent over.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Marty.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I just had two questions if I could.
First question and I know you had mentioned that you've seen very little change in the competitive dynamic in the category but you have you two competitors going through and selling in new retail contracts and a lot of that comes to fruition here in the fourth quarter.
I was just curious if you've seen any change at the retail level from that? Are you seeing retailers potentially making some significant change in the shelf space and that kind of thing? Any opportunity then for Altria is what I'm trying to get to.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
The answer is we really haven't.
But just to frame this out this isn't the first time there have been changes in the industry and naturally everybody competes really hard at retail Chris so everybody has got a lot of experience with their trade programs.
We have evolved our trade programs for 2016.
We've obviously anticipated that there might be changes and I think we are well positioned to compete there.
But we haven't observed a lot yet to answer your question directly.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I had just a follow-up to Matt's question on vapor.
Kind of two-pronged question.
One being that MarkTen XL is expanding beyond its lead categories.
Does that mean it's going national will we see this across the country? Or is it just a slow methodical build from here? And maybe related to that then how your promotional tactic has changed in the category just given the category slowed and we're lapping the initial launch of the product last year.
Are you changing your promotional tactic now and maybe focusing more so on profitability than on pure trial of the product? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The answer to both questions the word I would use is disciplined.
The way that we are going we are very happy with how MarkTen XL is performing.
We were in lead markets as you know and then we've had a terrific consumer response there.
So what we are going to do is with discipline we are going to roll it out into some additional lead markets through select accounts and learn more and try to get wider awareness and distribution of MarkTen XL.
We are very encouraged about the consumer response to MarkTen.
So we'll do that in a disciplined way.
I would say in promotions it's the same thing.
We have to get the product right.
You have to listen to the consumer.
You want to build awareness and trial.
But you certainly don't want to overspend particularly I might note in a category where the growth has slowed.
So we'll be very disciplined how we do that but it's a place where we want to play.
Our aspiration is ultimately for leadership.
But this is emerging an emerging product category and we want to do it with a lot of financial discipline.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks for calling Chris.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Duvick with Wells Fargo.
Yes good morning.
Quick question for you on the balance sheet.
I've noticed your debt has been going down the last couple of years and your leverage is in really good shape one-and-a-half times.
But it is also declining.
Can you talk about are you wanting additional capacity on the balance sheet for something like share buyback or acquisitions? Or is this a change in financial policy in just deciding to operate at a lower leverage level? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks for the question.
When we look at the balance sheet and kind of our debt levels we feel like we are in a good range currently where we are at but we are always assessing the financing needs of the enterprise.
Then when we make that decision that we want to go to the market we look at market conditions and other factors to decide when we'll go.
But no there is no change in our financial strategies there or policies and we feel good about where we are at.
Okay.
And then I guess just related to the Anheuser-Busch SAB transaction.
I think that you would be due some cash in the door from that transaction? Any ideas as to potentially use of those proceeds? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it is too early for us to be talking about that.
As I mentioned in our remarks I just don't want to get ahead of a deal that has not been announced as to its final terms.
If you can forgive us we'll just hold off on that until that happens.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay thanks for calling in.
Thank you.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Sarah Knakmuhs for closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you everyone for joining the call this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Altria Group’s 2015 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Altria's management and a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Representatives of the investment community and media on the call will be able to ask questions following the conclusion of the prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs Vice President Investor Relations for Altria Client Services.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We're here this morning with Marty Barrington Altria's CEO and Billy Gifford Altria's CFO to discuss Altria's 2015 fourth quarter and full year business results.
Earlier today we issued a Press Release regarding these results.
For detailed review please see the earnings release on our Web site at altria.com or through the Altria investor app.
During our call today unless otherwise stated we're comparing results to the same period in 2014.
Our remarks contain forward-looking and cautionary statements and projections of future results.
Please review the forward-looking and cautionary statement section at the end of today's earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria's Board.
The timing of share repurchases depends on marketplace conditions and other factors.
Altria reports its financial results in accordance with the U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Today's call will contain various operating results on both a reported and adjusted basis which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results.
Descriptions of these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings release which is available on our Web site and via the Altria investor app.
Now I'll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Sarah and good morning everyone.
Altria had yet another year of excellent business results and outstanding shareholder returns in 2015.
We continue to deliver against our two long-term financial goals.
First Altria grew adjusted diluted earnings per share by nearly 9% in line with our long-term growth objective.
Second Altria paid nearly $4.2 billion in dividends to our shareholders consistent with our goal of paying out approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS.
Also during the year we raised our dividend per share by 8.7% aligned with our goal to raise the dividend in line with adjusted diluted EPS growth.
This was the 49th time we have raised the dividend in the last 46 years.
We also completed our $1 billion share repurchase program and announced a new $1 billion program that we expect to complete by the end of 2016.
In Altria SABMiller’s largest shareholder supported the approximately $107 billion business combination between Anheuser-Busch InBev and SABMiller which will create the first truly global beer company.
We strongly believe that the deal is in the best interest of our shareholders offering a significant premium on our very larger beer investment and continued participation in the global beer profit pool on attractive terms.
The size of the premium we capture will ultimately depend on final closing prices exchange rates and any proration that might occur but as an example as of the date of the agreement in November the terms of the partial share alternative represented an approximate 43% premium to SABMiller’s share price on September 14 2015.
For 2015 Altria delivered a total shareholder return of more than 23% significantly outperforming both the S&amp;P 500 and the Food Beverage and Tobacco index and as a reminder our total shareholder returned was 29% in 2013 and 35% in 2014.
So let's turn to the businesses that supported those results.
Our core tobacco companies delivered on their objectives by growing income and strengthening their market leadership positions.
The smokeable product segment had a very strong 2015 with double-digit income growth and Marlboro's fourth consecutive year of modest retail share growth in line with its strategy.
Adjusted OCI grew nearly 11% driven primarily by higher pricing volume growth and the benefit of the federal tobacco quota buyout expiration.
Fourth quarter adjusted OCI growth was more modest due primarily to trade inventory movements and lapping the end of the quota buyout payments.
The segment also expanded adjusted OCI margins in both periods with full year margins of more than 46%.
Marlboro strengthened in 2015 gaining two-tenths of retail share in both the fourth quarter and the full year.
In November PM USA expanded distribution of Marlboro Midnight menthol nationally offering adult menthol smokers a bold unique menthol flavor.
Voluntarily we expect Marlboro Midnight menthol to build on the very positive momentum we've seen from the Marlboro Black Family which now has grown for 20 consecutive quarters.
Higher cigar shipment volume contributed to the smokeable segment’s performance in both periods.
Middleton grew Black &amp; Milds volume by over 5% in the quarter and nearly 4% for the year continuing to build on the brand’s strength in a more profitable kicked segment.
In our smokeless product segment USSTC once again delivered on its strategy to increase income by growing volume and maintain modest share momentum on Copenhagen and Skoal combined.
Adjusted OCI grew more than 8% in the fourth quarter and nearly 5% for the full year.
For the full year higher pricing more than offset higher promotional spending and cost.
Copenhagen and Skoal increased their combined retail share by three-tenths for the year.
We are pleased with Copenhagen's continued strength which grew nearly a full share point in 2015.
Last year Copenhagen was the fastest growing smokeless brand in the category.
And to build on the strength USSTC is planning to expand Copenhagen Mint nationally later this quarter.
Copenhagen Mint will be available at a popular price and USSTC will support its expansion with a strong awareness and trial generating plan.
In innovative tobacco products Nu Mark continued building a portfolio of tobacco products using its strong internal capabilities and its partnership with Philip Morris International.
In November based on encouraging results from lead markets Nu Mark continued its disciplined expansion of Mark 10 XL e-vapor products to additional select retail chains.
With respect to heat-not-burn products we continue to support PMI as it prepares for a 2016 product application to the FDA for a modified risk tobacco product designation and we look forward to discussing more about our plans for U.S.
commercialization at the appropriate time.
The wine business continued to perform well.
Ste.
Michelle grew OCI almost 4% in the fourth quarter and more than 13% for the year.
Ste.
Michelle's premium wines continued to be recognized as leaders in the industry garnering more than 250 90 plus ratings in 2015 up nearly 40% from last year.
So 2015 was an excellent year for our premium brands our company and our shareholders.
Turning to 2016 and beyond Altria is implementing a productivity initiative designed to maintain its operating company's leadership and cost competitiveness this initiative is expected to deliver approximately $300 million in annual productivity savings by the end of 2017 and as a result of reinvesting some of those savings strengthen our business capability.
The savings will come from reduced spending on certain SG&amp;A infrastructure and a leaner organization.
Some of the productivity savings will be invested in important initiatives such as brand building harm reduction and regulatory capabilities.
Continually challenging our cost structure and investing in the future remain important for us as we focus on delivering strong results for the long-term.
As to guidance in 2016 Altria expects to deliver full year adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $3 to $3.05 representing growth of 7% to 9% from our 2015 adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.80.
This guidance does not include any impact from the proposed AB InBev and SABMiller business combination as the transaction remains subject to certain approvals and the closing date has not yet been determined.
And now I will turn things over to Billy for more detail on our performance.
Thanks Marty and good morning everyone.
I'll start with the smokeable product segment.
The smokeable product segment increased adjusted OCI margins by eight-tenths of a percentage of point in the fourth quarter to 44.7% due primarily to higher pricing.
For the full year adjusted OCI margins in the segment expanded 2.3 points to 46.4% as higher pricing and the exploration of the federal tobacco quota buy-out payments more than offset high promotional spending and higher cost.
PM USA's reported cigarette shipment volume in the fourth quarter declined about 2.5% as elevated trade inventory levels at the end of the third quarter moderated in the fourth quarter.
For the full year PM USA's reported cigarette shipment volume increased 0.5%.
When adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors PM USA estimates its shipment volume increased 0.5% in both the fourth and for the full year.
PM USA estimates the total industry cigarette volume was essentially unchanged in the fourth and decreased by 0.5% for the full year.
In addition to retail share gains of Marlboro L&amp;M and the discount gained share allowing PM USA's total retail share to reach 51.4% in the quarter and 51.3% for 2013.
In the smokeless product segment fourth quarter adjusted OCI margins expanded 1.4 percentage points to 61.4% driven by higher pricing partially offset by higher promotional investments.
For the year adjusted OCI margins expanded three-tenths of a percentage point to 63.7% as higher pricing more than offset higher promotional investments and higher cost.
The smokeless segment’s reported shipments increased 4% in the fourth quarter and 2.5% for 2015.
After adjusting for trade inventory movements and other factors USSTC estimates that its volume grew 3% in the fourth quarter and 2.5% for the full year while estimated smokeless industry volume grew 2.5% for the past six months.
For both time periods Copenhagen volume growth was partially offset by declines for Skoal and other brands.
In wine OCI margin narrowed by eight-tenths of a percentage point to 24.8% in the fourth quarter but expanded by 1.2 percentage points to 22.8% for the year.
Reported shipment volumes grew 5.9% in the fourth quarter and 6.2% for the year.
Altria recorded -- reported equity earnings from our SABMiller investment of $211 million in the fourth quarter and $757 million for the year.
Unfavorable foreign currency and special items were the primary drivers of the full year 2015 decline.
In addition to the EPS guidance Marty provided for next year we expect that full year 2016 effective tax rate from operations to be 35.3%.
Additionally we forecast capital expenditures to be in the range of $140 million to $180 million.
That wraps up our results.
Marty and I will now take your questions.
While the calls are being compiled I'll direct your attention to altria.com.
Along with today's earnings release for your reference we have posted a list of quarterly metrics including pricing inventory and other housekeeping items.
Operator do we have any questions? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
My first question is regarding your cost savings program I guess it was a -- give us a little more color on what some of the productivity initiatives are that you're going to be implementing? And then what portion of the $300 million annualized savings will be reinvested and how much if any could flow to the bottom-line? And then do you expect to realize any savings this year? Let me make a comment about that and then I'll ask Billy perhaps to comment on the detail I think the great detail we're going to provide on the topic is in the release body as you can appreciate.
I think we've laid out there the areas that we're going to work on and certainly dimensionalize the amount of the productivity savings that we expect to gain but for competitive reasons I don't want to lay out in any greater detail where and what we're going to do with it.
We do reference the fact that we have important issues that we're investing in for our growth as you know we're investing in reduced harm products that requires regulatory capability and we always invest in our brands.
So I think that's the way to understand it and as the year flows through I think you'll see more -- Billy do you want to comment about timing? Yes I think the only thing I would add to that Bonnie is that we have incorporated those savings that we expect in this year into our guidance that we provided earlier.
Okay.
So there is and you just spelled out that the 300 million would be reached by FY17 so I wanted to clarify that there's going to be some that you'll realize this year.
Okay.
Second question is on menthol I guess I was hoping you could give us a sense of how the menthol category performed in the quarter and specifically how Marlboro menthol performed? Yes the menthol segment continues to grow moderately as you know and we continue to grow our share of the menthol segment where we're under indexed and have opportunity.
So we're pretty pleased with our menthol performance.
So overall Marlboro menthol is taking share or just like you said where it’s under indexed possibly in certain regions? Yes what I said is that the segment continues to grow modestly and that we continue to grow our share of it and obviously Marlboro is a key way that we do that.
Okay.
And then Marty if I may just my final question is on… Sure… …total tobacco consumption for the industry last year given the strong industry cigarette volume and then the decelerating smokeless volume do you have a sense of the underlying total tobacco consumption when considering both of these categories I guess for last year and then how sustainable do you think the strong underlying cigarette volume trends are what are your expectations for industry cigarette volumes in 2016? Yes I am familiar with the number for total tobacco volume I think for the last government figures I've seen but I haven't seen them yet for 2015 so I don’t want to hazard guess on that although obviously we know that the cigarette volume flattened because of the effects that we talked about in 2015.
In terms of cigarette volume the long-term trends 3 to 5 long-term trends tend to persist over the long-term we know that ’15 was a little bit different for a variety of factors.
I think the question for ’16 Bonnie is if you expect it to revert back to historical levels at what pace? We continue to see a stronger adult tobacco consumer right now so we'll have to see what that pace is.
But I think overtime you would expect for it to return to long-term trend.
Okay so if I am hearing you correctly 2016 maybe above historical trends but as the year progresses and maybe as we lookout in the future would return to that minus 3 minus 4 decline rate? What I mean to say is that I think the long-term trends tend to revert to the main.
The long-term trend has been 3 to 4.
The pace at which it returns to 3 to 4 in ’16 and beyond I think is just hard to estimate because of the anomaly of the 2015 factors.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on Bonnie's question a little bit just in terms of as you think about all the positive macro drivers that helped the industry broadly in 2015 I just wanted to get your color just in terms of what do you think and how do you think those macro drivers will play out in 2016 and the industry fundamentals compared to really 2015? Yes that's good question because I think you do have to distinguish the year-over-year effect from what the status of the consumer is.
We go into the year believing as a whole that the adult tobacco consumer continues to feel better going into ’16 as they did in ’15.
Obviously unemployment is down housing starts are up.
The effective gasoline prices we see improved adult tobacco consumer confidence.
Now of course that effect was felt in ’15 and we doubt that we're going to see the same effect as year-over-year to ’16 but I think it's good news I think that we think that the adult tobacco consumer goes into 2016 with those positive feelings there's always changes that could happen in the macro-environment you see speculation in some quarters about recession clouds looming that obviously would change everything but we went into the year feeling pretty about the adult tobacco consumer.
Okay.
And then Marty just on the pricing environment obviously that's been another positive trend at the manufacturer level where we've seen a pretty healthy price increases in the past few quarters.
If I look at the price gap versus discount brands it's still at one of the lowest levels in history so wanted to just get your perspective on kind of more pricing upside opportunity particularly as the adult tobacco consumers are in a relatively healthy shape? Yes I mean our desire as you know is to continue grow income in that segment while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro.
If you look at the net pricing for the year Judy it's almost 5% which is at the higher end of the historical range.
I had occasion to go back and look at the four year average it's about four in the quarter and so that works.
We are always mindful of the price gap and there is competition in the industry.
So with that kind of net pricing realization and attention to cost management growing some share and the diverse business platform we have we think that's kind of the Altria story and we like the way that's been played out over the last several years where you've seen really consistent EPS growth at about 8% through thick and thin and we think that's the model that we should stick with.
Okay.
And just my last question is on the STC obviously we've seen a little bit of a pick in the second half so your outlook for 2016 in terms of the STC environment? We are always cautious at the beginning of the year.
We saw more activity actually last year didn’t? We than we had seen in the last previous years we took eight I think memory serves we took eight STC increases last year.
So there are always puts and takes with them we know that there are going to be lots of proposals we have a very talented government affairs team which tries to advocate on behalf of our consumers.
So we'll have to see as we go into the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Marty I wanted to ask a follow-up question on the productivity initiative in the past when you have had similar programs usually it's been in response to factor like the STC increase that necessitated rightsizing the Company to account for I guess a lower level of volumes and volume trends have obviously been very stable recently so I guess what precipitated the decision to implement a cost savings program today as opposed to just incorporating some normal course charges into the P&amp;L? The charges are to grow our business for the long-term and to reallocate our resources against growth initiatives.
I think that you always have to be mindful of costs overtime if you have opportunities to improve in your infrastructure or to improve your organization and to invest those savings in your brands or in your products for the future or in the way you can go to the market you should do that and I think it's one of the reasons Matt that Altria has been successful over decades and while these programs are never easy to accomplish that's how you grow overtime and when you see Altria's growth overtime it is because we do these programs often from strength and that is the case today our business is strong but we believe we should invest in several of these initiatives now and after this.
And then just one additional question just on the smokeable segment margins you addressed this to some extent they were up here in the fourth quarter but less so than we saw in the first nine months and you called out the lapping of the quota buy-out but just curious whether there were any other specific areas of the business where you felt there was an opportunity to specifically reinvest here in the fourth quarter? Yes Matt I'll take that because it is -- thanks for the question.
I think when you look at margins in the smokeable category you really have to think about there were two kind of primary factors one we've talked about on a regular basis and that was the pension remember we've dated the mortality table at the end of last year and that gave us a bit of a drag on the expense side of that as we went through the year so that was still present.
From an equity standpoint you saw us investing we showed some of that at Investor Day around some of the digital innovations some of the mobile couponing efforts that we have underway those would be the primary factors that I would point out.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Just one question I just wanted to know have you seen any real significant change in the competitive dynamics over the last quarter and obviously we have gone old time looking to place some of the new construction out and then imperial obviously not in the marketplace in a larger scale but just wondering if any of those competitive dynamics have changed significantly? Thank you.
I think the answer is nothing that we haven't contemplated.
The brands have some new owners and owners talked about their plans about what to do with the brands at retail we fully contemplated that but we haven't seen anything that I'd call out as significant or material.
You next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Just wanted to see if you could give a couple of clarifications on the cost savings two in particular one you called out the 90 million in savings on the pension and that's completely unrelated to the productivity initiative is that correct? Yes it is correct Michael.
And then just second a little bit of a follow-up on Bonnie's question I realized there is competitive sensitivity and so nothing obviously too detailed but just compared to the program from about three or four years ago your -- I guess a little question on finance you've referred to that as a cost savings program I think I hear using the word productivity which sounds a little more like ordinary type efforts is there any difference in terms of very broadly how you think about these two initiatives or is it just a revisit of ordinary -- things that you can do periodically to update your cost base and words and semantics aren’t meaningful how should we think about from just at a very high level this versus the last program? Well I think the way to think about it is you constantly want to look at your resources you want to make sure that they're allocated to the best possible way if you can find productivity to invest in your growth areas while becoming more efficient in other areas you should do that for the long-term health of the business.
That's how we think about productivity and we do it all the time but from time-to-time we have opportunities to take bigger steps and we're going to be implementing this productivity initiative over 2016 and 2017 so that we can invest in some of these important initiatives that we've identified in the release.
And then just one more looking at the vapor business in some of your investments there obviously that category has slowed pretty considerably but how do you think about the level of investment that's appropriate there going forward? With discipline I think you have to -- you really do I mean you have to be disciplined about it the category is a very interesting emerging category we know that there is consumer interest so you want to have products there and you want to be investing and you want to be learning but you always want to do that with discipline because we're trying to do it within the guidance that we're trying to provide about how we're growing all of our businesses long-term and I think we've done a better job with that with MarkTen recently and especially with MarkTen XL it's a better product Michael it's been very well received by the consumer.
We're getting good results in our lead markets and so we're rolling out on and expanding with discipline and trying to spend appropriately but not overspending.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
I just had a question if I could on just to understand the trade inventory movements we knew those were coming they were a little larger than I expected and just to get a sense of how you exit the year and where inventory levels are? I guess then related to that with volume being so strong throughout 2015 inventory levels as we exit the year I'd be surprised if they were lower is there any reason why those need to be up a little bit where they are even versus the prior year given the strengthened volume throughout the year? Yes good question listen they go up and they go down for us but they usually washout over the year as you know and I think that's what happened in ’15.
When we look at wholesale inventory we really don't see anything remarkable in comparing yearend ’15 against yearend ’14.
As a matter of fact if you refer I think Chris to the sheet that we provide you see the numbers that about spot on.
You did see some depletion during the fourth quarter which we predicated I think in the third quarter call.
But honestly I think as we go into 2016 we just don't see anything remarkable and as I mentioned earlier we will have to see how the volume plays out throughout the year.
And then I just wanted to understand and I don’t know you have given this yet I didn’t hear it but just the contribution to profitability from SAB in 2016 from that and I know assuming it will soon -- it doesn’t change and the ABI deal doesn’t occur we know there is a currency drag so just trying to get a sense of do you expect it to be a contributor to profitability in the year? Hi Chris this is Billy.
Thanks for the question.
When you think about SAB it's always a contributor to profitability right.
We have earnings that flow though to them.
As far as whether it's going to be larger or smaller than last year we don’t go to that level of detail know that from a currency standpoint we looked at how currency impacted us in ’15.
We incorporate that in to our guidance for ’16 so we feel comfortable with what we have in and so yes it will be a contributor to profitability.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Marascia of Capitol Securities Management.
A couple of quick questions number one have you retail chains given you any kind of idea whether the expected e-cig sales growth has been going according to expectations or have you had to adjust your expectation levels? And secondly if you could I forgot what the schedule was but when you guys expect the feds will call out some type of new regulations on the e-cig market? Yes let me take the second one first.
Thanks for those.
As you know FDA has been working on a steaming regulations it's our understanding that they over at OMB and that the process is now is now between OMB and FDA.
And they have not said when they expect to announce they had said that they expected it to be in 2015 but of course we're now in ’16 and that hasn't happened.
So I am afraid I can't give you much more color than that the process is a little opaque.
I want to make sure I understand the question you had about retail if you're asking about our product MarkTen XL and our lead markets our retailers are very excited about that product it's been selling very well and it's got a good response.
I couldn't quite tell if that's what you're asking about or if you're asking something more general.
No more general in terms of the overall e-cig market? Yes it slowed a little bit.
It had very mediocre as a category growth when it first came out it was up over 100% year-over-year and then 50% the year after that and then the last year we estimated the category growth in dollar sales was about 25% but a lot of that was in the first half as it slowed in the second.
So the category growth has slowed down but it still remains interesting to adult tobacco consumers and interesting enough for us to want to compete there.
Your next question comes from the line of DeAndre Parks of Western Asset.
Could you give us some color on it relates to some of your high coupon debt what your thought process is behind and how you look at that I know you guys actually tendered for some back in the past and especially given the effect that there may be some gains how do you look at that process what do you do and do not? Sure thanks for the question.
Look we're always assessing both marketplace conditions and where we stand from a overall capital position within that company.
We feel very comfortable with where we're at but we're always assessed the marketplace for opportunities to take advantage of and to your point we took advance of some of that in the beginning of the year with a debt tender that we did in the first quarter of ’15.
So we assess it overall what are the cash needs of the business and what are the marketplace conditions when we make those decisions.
We will now open the call for questions from the media.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Hi this is actually Nikhil Nichani on Nik Modi’s behalf.
Just one quick question if the ABI SAB deal got close and you guys do get some incremental benefits from that deal how are you thinking about that in terms of letting that drop to the bottom-line or reinvesting into the business and if you do chose to invest some of those what would be the priorities? Thank you.
Well I can appreciate the question but you can appreciate that I can't tell you that right now.
We don’t even have the closing date for the transaction.
We're not sure when it's going to close.
And so you just forgive me I don’t want to get ahead of those parties’ transaction by speculating about the benefit to us.
As you know we think is a very attractive transaction and we think that the combined company is going to be a terrific company and we're really pleased to be able to participate in the company going forward but I don't want to get into any more detail with that at this time if you will allow me.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
So I know you don’t like to talk about Marlboro's sub families in a great amount of detail but Marty given the significant transformation that has gone on with Marlboro in particular with the introduction of Black could -- is it at all possible at least to kind of dimensionlize kind of the sizing of the different brands in ways as they contribute to total Marlboro? No I guess it's certainly -- first I know you try on this but it's just competitively sensitive about how we do this and I think what's more I don't mean to be cavalier like that I just mean that what we really want to look at is the overall dimensions of Marlboro how is it doing across all of the families how is it doing from a total equity point of view how is it doing in terms of the price gap it can command and so forth and so on.
And I know you know all that so I won't repeat it.
Marlboro is doing exactly what we want it to do and if you look at Marlboro Black it has just added a whole new dimension for example to the brand it's staying relevant to the current cohort of adult tobacco consumers it commenced nice price premiums so Marlboro's great but we're just not going to break it out at that level I hope you'll indulge me on that.
I can’t blame you for trying but I absolutely appreciate that no problem.
And from a regulatory standpoint it seems like we've seen a bit of an uptick in terms activity around raising the minimum purchase age for tobacco products do you -- at 21 and some with success like Hawaii some not New Jersey I was hoping you could comment kind of high level on how you see that type of regulatory activity evolving? Yes I can our position to begin with is of course there should be minimum-age laws and we were the company and went around and led the effort on that to make sure that there were minimum-age laws in place everywhere and that they were vigorously in forced and we spent an awful lot of time and energy and resources on that which is completely appropriate and we support that.
We support a minimum age of 18 and if you look at the reference points the overwhelming majority of the states use 18.
The Master Settlement Agreement from the 1990s used 18 and when we passed the FDA bill it was 18 and further the FDA bill contemplated a process to study whether the age should be raised and they gave that pass to FDA FDA is now doing that and our view on that is they should let FDA do that job and send a report over to Congress and then we could have an intelligent debate about whether the age should be raised or not but this sort of ad-hoc approach of locality here or state there doesn't seem to make good public policy sense to us.
So we believe in 18 and we also support the process that was in place from the statute to study issue.
But my last question on just any comments on Green Smoke after the tests in 2015? They're encouraging we really I think have improved the Green Smoke platform we have it in a number of retail stores as you know it's been very well received it continues to be the leader in the e-commerce space and so we're working on that brand portfolio strategy now but we're glad to have Green Smoke in the portfolio and obviously the company has helped us from a supply chain point of view immensely.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Chuck Maguy of Wall Street Journal.
Hi Marty I know you declined to provide some clarity on the productivity initiative earlier when Bonnie asked about it but looking at that term leaner organizational structure could you interpret it as layoffs what do you mean by that and will there be layoffs if so how many jobs would be eliminated? Let me begin by saying thanks for calling in by saying that we're going to speak with our organization later this morning and I hope you could appreciate that I want to speak to our organization about our plans there before I do in a public venue.
So you've to indulge me a bit on that but yes we intend to have a leaner organization what lean typically means it means in this case is we want to have an organization that has fewer layers and we have broader spans of control in our managerial ranks and if we can work towards those ends and we can then reinvest those savings in our growth initiatives we should do that it may be that we can give you more information later in the day after I've spoken to the organization but I don't want to get ahead of it on the call.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sarah Knakmuhs for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.