Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Juan José Orellana Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shawna.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2011.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including statements regarding our guidance for 2011.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report for fiscal year 2010 our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company's website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of April 18 2011 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José and welcome everyone.
We know that many people are celebrating a holiday this evening.
John and I will therefore keep our remarks brief so that those observing the holiday can get to their friends and families.
Just a few months ago we completed an important year for Molina Healthcare.
We celebrated the company's 30th year in business as well as our success in delivering strong earnings growth in 2010.
We exceeded the guidance provided and the company's financial position was strengthened as a result of our operational results.
Today I am pleased to report that our first quarter results have given us a solid start toward achieving the financial guidance we provided for 2011.
Our financial results improved dramatically over the first quarter of 2010.
Implementation of various contracting and medical management incentives resulted in lower medical costs across our Consolidated Health Plans segment during the first quarter of 2011.
Inpatient utilization dropped by 7% compared with the first quarter of last year while pharmacy utilization was flat despite the return to a more typical influenza pattern.
Overall our Medical Care ratio dropped by approximately 80 basis points year-over-year.
Premium revenue per-member per-month increased by only 1% in the first quarter.
Our larger and more established health plans fared the best in the first quarter.
California Ohio Utah and Washington all have lower medical care ratios when compared to the first quarter of 2010.
And Michigan's medical care ratio was up slightly.
At some of our smaller or newer health plans we continued to confront challenges during the first quarter that resulted in medical cost trends that exceeded premium growth.
In Wisconsin our newest and smallest health plan in terms of enrollment greater visibility into our cost trends due to longer experience and a reduction in premium rates by 11% January 1 2011 triggered the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve of approximately $3 million in the first quarter of 2011.
This is one of the most dramatic rate cuts that we've experienced at one of our health plans.
The medical care ratio in Florida remains elevated.
However there is indication that we are making progress as the medical care ratio declined 360 basis points sequentially.
As we've discussed in the past we expect medical cost to remain volatile and elevated in our smaller markets until we gain additional market share enabling us to establish better provider relationships with those providers that are the most cost-effective.
We now have about 1 full year of operational experience with our Fiscal Agent business Molina Medicaid Solutions.
During that time we have gained valuable insights into the business and we have a better appreciation for the earnings and the revenue recognition patterns associated with the design development and implementation or DDI phase of new contracts.
Our efforts in Idaho and Maine to correct issues from the original implementation under Unisys are taking longer and are more costly than we anticipated.
On the other hand the margins in our fiscal agent contracts in New Jersey Louisiana and West Virginia remain stable.
We firmly believe that the government healthcare sector in which we compete is an attractive growth industry.
There is considerable amount of Medicaid activity that is taking place ahead of healthcare reform.
For example the Texas RFP which had been delayed has now been released with a due date of May 23.
In Ohio and Michigan both dates are exploring making managed care mandatory for the due eligible population.
In Florida state legislature approved the proposal to reduce long-term cost by moving a portion of its Medicaid population into managed care.
And in California a large portion of the state's aged blind and disabled Medicaid beneficiaries will be required to enroll with a managed care plan starting in June of this year.
Overall we had a successful first quarter.
I firmly believe our results validate our strategic imperatives emphasizing diversification financial strength and profitable growth.
We are very well positioned for the year ahead and I look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
I will now turn the call over to John to review the quarter's financials in greater detail.
Thank you Mario.
We are very pleased with our results for this quarter.
EPS for the quarter was $0.56 up 37% from a year ago.
Net income from the quarter was $17 million up 64% over last year and EBITDA was up 62% over last year.
Operating revenue for the quarter was $1 billion up $153 million or approximately 16% from the first quarter of 2010.
Our total enrollment grew by 165 000 members or 11% over the first quarter of 2010.
This growth is mainly attributed to solid organic growth in Texas and Ohio as well as the acquisition of our Wisconsin Health Plan.
In Texas the 2 recent RFP awards 1 for CHIP members in September of 2010 and 1 for STAR+PLUS members this past February have more than tripled our enrollment in that state since last August.
In Wisconsin our acquisition of the plant closed in September of 2010 which enhances year-over-year growth.
Sequentially our enrollment rose by 34 000 members over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Medicare enrollment grew by 43% over the first quarter of last year and we now serve approximately 24 000 Medicare members.
Today Medicare accounts were 1.5% of our membership and approximately 8% of our revenue.
Our membership growth was essentially the sole driver of higher revenue for the quarter as blended premium revenue per-member per-month grew only 1%.
Although we have received relatively small rate increases in states like Ohio California Utah and Washington over the past year we have seen substantial cuts in states like New Mexico and Wisconsin.
As Mario touched upon medical costs that exceeded premium growth in Wisconsin due to an 11% rate decrease on January 2011 require the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve of approximately $3 million in the first quarter of 2011.
We've also seen a shift in our member mix as growth in the lower premium membership from Wisconsin and the Texas CHIP expansion have more than offset the increase in ABD members we experienced in the Dallas Fort Worth area in February.
Therefore the dynamic rate environment in our markets which combines rate increases in some states rate decreases in others and changes in membership mix further reinforces the need for diversification across multiple health plans.
In light of this environment we have made the most of any premium rate increases we have received by better managing our medical costs.
Our medical care ratio declined by 80 basis points year-over-year.
Despite the return of a flu season hospital utilization declined by 7% and pharmacy utilization was flat.
Pharmacy costs after adjusting for the carve out of the pharmacy benefit in Ohio increased approximately 5% PMPM quarter-over-quarter.
Capitation cost decreased approximately 15% PMPM primarily due to the transition of members in Michigan and Washington into fee-for-service networks.
Fee-for-service costs increased approximately 4% PMPM.
Much of this increase was due to the transition of members from capitated provider networks into fee-for-service networks.
Fee-for-service and capitation costs combined increased less than 1% PMPM.
General and administrative expenses were $94 million or 8.4% of total revenue compared with $79 million or 8.2% of total revenue for the same quarter last year.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $82 million for the first quarter of 2011 compared with cash used in operating activities of $27 million for the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter cash flow was lifted by the early receipt of our April Ohio premium.
We do not expect Ohio to pay again early this year so all other things being equal you can expect cash flow to show a drop in the second quarter.
The company had cash and investments of approximately $871 million.
The parent company had cash and investments of approximately $26 million.
Finally we are reaffirming our EPS guidance for 2011 of $2.20.
We are very pleased with our results this quarter.
However as you know government budget deficits are not expected to improve in the remainder of 2011.
Accordingly the rate environment for the company's health plan remains uncertain making any adjustment to guidance unwarranted at this time.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays Capital.
This is Joe Kuhns filling in for Josh today.
First 1 is can you just give us an update? I know you talked a little bit about the RFPs.
But I guess in terms of timing which are the ones that are coming up next and when should we expect for California specifically when should we expect to start seeing some ABD members come in? Well let's talk about California for a second.
This is John.
The ABD members should start to come on the roads in June or July of this year and it was done not through a separate RFP.
As Mario discussed the Texas RFP came out with a due date of May 23.
There've been a couple of RFPs in the MMS space.
But beyond that I don't think that we have much of a signal other than what's already out there which you guys and all the analysts have been covering.
Right.
And were you surprised at all specifically about Texas that the effective start date didn't change given the delay? No.
And anything else for that matter surprising in your opinion on the Texas RFP? This is Mario.
We did not find anything surprising about the Texas RFP.
Okay thanks.
And I know you're obviously reaffirming 2011 guidance.
Any comment today on 2012 guidance or are you leaving that off the table for now? I think we made some comments at our Investor Day about 2012.
I don't think we want to go beyond what we said previously.
Okay.
And just 1 more if I may.
I guess this is really more of a logistical question but was -- I guess what was the decision process in terms of reporting so early in earnings season? Usually I think last year you guys were around the first week of May.
So just curious to see why you moved up the date.
You hit the nail on the head.
It was logistics.
We have our shareholder meeting next week.
We've got spring break for my kids and a couple of other folks have spring break coming up.
So it was just easier to get it done early.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel Nicolaus.
A few questions.
On the transition of the capitated costs from fee-for-service to -- I'm sorry from capitation to fee-for-service in Washington and Michigan is this more of a proactive approach on your part as you expect the rate environment to be challenging in the coming years or is this just more reflective of how the population is choosing providers? No I think this is more an issue of -- this is Mario Tom.
This is an issue of provider preference and the way they have chosen to be paid which I think is really ironic because there's been so much talk about the cannibal care organizations which would put providers at risk and yet more and more of the providers are coming to us saying they want fee-for-service contracting arrangements.
So this is the docs actually saying they want to get paid fee-for-service.
Correct.
Interesting.
Okay.
What drove the RX costs in Washington state and does that suggest anything about future claims flow? Tom it's Joe speaking.
I think in both California and Washington when we look at pharmacy costs I think the biggest impact this quarter was a continuing diminution of pharmacy rebates.
We talked about the pharmacy rebates we received via the pharmaceutical manufacturers drying up as the states collect that.
Also curiously enough those are 2 of the -- I guess not curiously those are 2 of the states where we had high synergist use as a result of the synergist season.
Also there's are 2 of the states where we had probably the least probably have the highest RX utilization creep for the quarter.
Essentially a combination of factors but I think what really stands out for them this quarter is the way they've been hit by the loss of the pharmacy rebates.
Okay.
And then lastly what's the decrease in admissions per thousand was that focused in any 1 or 2 markets or mostly evenly spread? We saw that pretty much everywhere except our Missouri and our Ohio plants otherwise very consistent.
Very good.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Thank you.
I was wondering how we should think about seasonality.
I think yesterday you indicated 2011 would be more back-end loaded than past years and if I adjust for the Wisconsin reserve fees of about $0.07 and the MMS margin step up in the second half does the year still look like 60% second half 40% first half? [Technical Difficulty] Sure.
Yes.
I was wondering how I should think about seasonality.
At the Investor Day you guys had mentioned that you're being more back-end loaded than past years so if you adjust for the Wisconsin reserves it would be $0.07.
And the second half step up in MMS margins I was wondering if the year still looks like 60% second half 40% first half? I think Sarah rather than trying to pigeonhole or pinpoint how much is coming from back half versus first half what I would say is first quarter is ahead of I think even our expectations.
But I'm just being a little cautious because of the rate environment.
It's still in flux.
Do you have any basic assumptions for the second half rate? I'm sorry say that again Sarah? Do you have any assumptions for the second half rates currently built into your 2011 guidance that you could share with us? What I would say is there's really been no change to the information we provided in January at our Investor Day.
I think what's changed for us is that the first quarter results came in a little bit better than anticipated and a lot of that had to do with lower hospital utilization.
It's a good sign because that's something that we have some control over.
But I would be cautious about extrapolating the whole year based on 1 quarter.
So really no change to guidance no change to the information that we provided in January slightly lower medical costs in the first quarter than anticipated leading to better earnings.
Got it.
And on the hospital utilization is there anything in particular that you see that's driving that or any color that you could provide? No I think this is just a product of our medical management initiatives.
We've been trying to push the medical management down to the state health plans asking our state health plan CMOs and medical directors to step up a little bit and help us control our medical costs better especially at a time when we are experiencing minimal rate increases on the premium side.
Better medical management.
And the last question is on the clinics.
I think you talked about building a couple of clinics in California.
I was wondering if there was any update on that.
We've still got I think 2 more that are scheduled to be open later this year.
And we did open our second clinic in Washington in late last year or early this year.
That was in December.
Plus we've expanded the capacity at 2 of our clinics in California all of this is anticipation of the influx of the ABD members.
We wanted to have a little bit stronger staff model clinic network to be able to handle that growth.
Okay.
So would it be fair to say that they would be up and running before the ABD members come in at the end of the year? Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Just to put this utilization issue to rest it sounds like you're saying the lower utilization was primarily a result of the lower admits in the hospital.
Is that correct? Yes that's correct.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And are you saying that it was Molina-specific or do you think it was more general broadly to the industry? Well here's what I would say.
It's very difficult to generalize from 1 health plan to another and I would urge everyone to be cautious about that.
What we see in the first quarter is higher utilization due to the flu typically.
But that's mostly on the outpatient side.
So the fact that we had a slightly more intense flu season in 2011 than 2010 but lower medical costs is really reflective of the fact that we had lower hospital utilization.
And as I said we've been struggling for a long time to try and improve our margins and decrease our medical costs and I think that we're seeing some of the benefit of that work.
And I hope that that will continue for the remainder of the year.
But again I caution everyone to be very careful about trying to extrapolate our performance to the rest of the industry.
LLLP</strong> Okay thanks.
And then thinking about the guidance for this year can you tell us what percentage of your member months -- what percentage of your member months you currently have rate visibility on? The only state -- actually 2 states Ohio and Wisconsin.
The rest of them will be a July or October rate change.
Like 20%.
It's probably 20% 22%.
Do you follow that? LLLP</strong> Sort of.
I guess what I'm trying to figure out is that as of today because these -- there are varying times when the rate changes take effect how much is locked up? Meaning what do you know you have for sure and then what percent is still variable for your expectations for 2011? So basically it's Joe speaking Wisconsin and Ohio receive 1/1 rate increases.
Everybody else is going to hit either 6/30 or 9/30.
So if you look at our earnings release we break out the enrollment.
I think you can just do the arithmetic.
23% total.
So 1 way of looking at that is that we have the rate -- we know the rates were slightly more than half.
Correct? LLLP</strong> Okay.
That's what I'm trying to figure out.
Through the second part of the year we have rates in half.
So in July they change or in October they change.
So a little more than half of the rates are locked in for this year.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then is it possible...
Having said that I also want to caution everyone that if states run out of money there's nothing that says they can't come back and adjust the rates downward during the contract period.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then last question here on the guidance.
Is it possible to tell us whether -- you gave a detailed breakout of the line items at your Investor Day.
Did any of those line items change materially since January? No I don't think so.
Our policy has always been if there's a material change we'll let people know.
I think that for the most part the year is tracking as we anticipated but with slightly lower hospital utilization and better margins as a result.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Green from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So first I was reading through the Louisiana RFP and I thought I read that they were extending the fiscal intermediary vendors contract through 2015.
So I was asking is that you? Is your contract extended for another 5 years? Is that new? I didn't see it in risk factors this quarter.
This is Terry Bayer.
We are the current fiscal intermediary so a state will often extend the contract to cover the development period should there be a new vendor.
Okay.
So is there still an RFP you're preparing to submit a bid for there? Yes we have submitted a bid to reprocure that business.
So we are both the incumbent and the potential future awardee of the business going forward.
Okay.
All right.
So that wasn't new from your perspective.
You're still competing to retain that business at the same time frame.
Yes.
I think what the state is signaling is that there is not going to be an abrupt change even if they were to bring in a new contractor as Terry said there's a run out period where they would have us probably continue that contract.
So I think that's what they're trying to signal to the bidders that there should be minimal disruption to them with regard to the MMIS vendor.
And then secondly so in Wisconsin can you clarify the premium deficiency reserve? Is that higher-than-expected cost vary initially as you have gotten claims that are more mature or is it lower revenues there? This is Joe speaking.
I think it's better to say it's generally driven by lower revenues.
We took about an 8% cut there effective September 1 2010 you'll recall and then another 11% on top of that effective January 1.
So essentially the revenue is simply not keeping up with the medical cost.
Okay.
All right.
And then I guess following up on Sarah's question you had already assumed in your initial guidance 0% per rate update on unsigned contracts going forward.
And your results in the first quarter are better than expected.
So I guess that means we're assuming something less than zero going forward or just some other conservatism.
There may be just a lower number there.
Is that based on any conversation you're actually currently having with states where you now think rates might be lower or just general caution? I would say it's general caution.
We will have a much better visibility after the second quarter is done.
And we hate to change guidance now when we change again once we have better visibility on rates.
Okay.
All right.
A question on California.
So could you just update us on where we are in terms of there was a proposal for 10% provider rate cut in the back half of the year and I think they're working on some study to show if it would impact access to care or not.
There is also some placeholder for a rate increase to HMO plans.
So if you could give us your perspective on where we are in that process.
And then related to that in 2008 there was also a proposed 10% provider rate cut in California and you quantified that potential impact at around $0.10 EPS in the back half of the year.
And I was wondering if that would be the same way to think about it using those 2008 disclosures that you gave if that happened to be...
Well this is Mario.
What I would say about that is that in the first place there are a lot of moving parts with the California budget.
And as I've said in the past until the tax receipts come in and you get the May revised I'm always very cautious about anything that's said about the California budget until after May.
So I would continue to wait and see.
With respect to what the impact of a provider rate decrease would be on the health plan I would just caution you that the company is larger than it was in 2008 and California makes up a smaller percentage of its overall business.
So it probably would have a smaller effect than it would have in 2008 but there's just a lot of uncertainty about what's going to happen with California.
But the only thing we really do know for sure is that the process of moving the ABD patients into managed care has begun.
Letters have been going out to the beneficiaries notifying them that they must choose a plan.
And I think that that is on track.
Beyond that I think it's too soon to really comment.
Okay.
All right fair enough.
So more color there in May I guess.
So hopefully if they get a budget passed on time maybe.
And then in Georgia you had spoken previously about working to establish networks there in preparation for an RFP that's now been delayed by at least a year.
So what do you do there if you either had people on the ground or you had a network in place? Is there a cost associated with just that sitting there for a year or 2 or is there a way to lower those costs or maybe you start selling Medicare plan or something like that.
What are your thoughts about that? What we would do is this is John keep efforts I would say more than minimal less than maximum efforts to keep the network that we've got together.
It doesn't cost us really much in order to keep the contracts open.
And should we say that we have excess resources we'll put them into other locations where we're trying to build and expand.
Okay.
All right.
And lastly could you talk about the sequential decrease in Washington enrollment? What drove that? I think it was down 14 000 lines sequentially.
Sure.
There are a couple of issues in Washington that are driving the enrollment decrease.
One when we moved some of the contracts off of full risk to fee-for-service we did have some membership  attrition.
But that's okay.
We also -- Washington in 2010 brought up a new MMIS system.
We're very familiar with transitions having gone through that in Maine and Idaho ourselves and we think there's some issues related to the implementation of the MMIS that affected our ability to gain enrollment in Washington.
Okay.
So do you think going forward you can regain some of that or should just kind of be steady state from here? We're working with the state on the MMIS issues.
All right.
And then maybe one more.
Are you guys looking at the Kentucky RFP at all or are you more focused on the opportunities that you outlined at Investor Day? Well it's always been our policy not to comment on potential RFPs.
So we're not going to comment on that one.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Thank you.
First question is if you could update us on how you're feeling about the California ABD rates.
I know initially the proposal from the state a couple of the plans thought the rates were a little bit.
So anything that's changed since the initial proposal? Well we're in the ABD business right now.
So we have our current rate.
And although we've been quoted the go-forward rate it's premature to conclude that its final in any way because of the budget issues.
And again we don't comment until we have it in hand.
Then with this expansion just hypothetically if the state gave you a rate that you thought was way too low for ABD do you have to take the membership? Can we basically force it onto you or can you choose whether to participate? It would be mandatory enrollment.
So we would have to accept the members yes.
The second question is -- recognizing the comment you just made on not commenting on RFPs.
I know it did Louisiana specifically there was some dispute over whether or not you guys would be able to bid given the existing MMIS relationship.
Did you ever get conclusion on that the last time around? Well Carl that's an interesting question especially in light of the fact that United [ph] owns Gen X [ph].
I find it curious that people are so concerned about our IT vendor relationship.
But anything specific on Louisiana or.
.
.
No.
And then last question is if you could just talk about your pharmacy strategy thinking specifically on the preterm labor drug? Now that the KB has the exclusive there what the strategy will be? I don't think there's really any change in our strategy.
We have about between 400 and 500 women in the 17-P program and we'll continue with that.
One of the issues about this drug being exclusive I think it's changed.
We can continue to use the compounded products.
So I don't think it's going to be a huge issue.
Got it.
So you're plan then is just continue to do what you've been doing? Yes.
In using the compounded product? Correct.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Wright with Citadel.
LLC</strong> On taxes what was the MLR ex the STAR+PLUS expansion in Dallas Fort Worth? Brian it's Joe speaking.
We normally don't share that level of detail.
The STAR+PLUS expansion at Fort Worth though I will say their MCR was lightly below the number reported for Texas as whole.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
And then just lastly the claims inventory was up at the end of the quarter relative to where it was a year ago and even though for the fourth quarter and the dollar amounts are higher as well but the days claims payable was down.
Could you kind of reconcile some of those metrics? This certainly isn't the first time we've had a drop in DCP coincide with an increase in claims inventory.
We've also had the opposite on occasion.
I think we have increased DCP with a drop in inventory.
It's a rough correlation Brian that's all I would say.
There are a lot of factors that go into our estimates that we don't know actuaries make.
Everything from hospital bed days authorized bed days pharmacy utilization all of that.
So I don't the change in inventory is particularly out of line with what we've seen in DCP.
It's never been a  particularly tight relationship.
Brian John was going to talk about if you also look to the roll forward table it's rather interesting.
We actually had a greater benefit from 12/31/10 in the claims roll forward table and then we did the first quarter of last year.
So those two indicators are kind of pointing in opposite directions.
But we're very comfortable with our reserves.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I just don't remember and I apologize.
Have you guys talked about like what the DCP number you're expecting for the year then kind of a range or.
.
.
No we've never really talked about that because it's too difficult to predict.
It's always worth remembering days and claims payable as a product of our results and derive number from our reserves.
It's not how we set our reserves.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Lavine (sic) [Kenneth Lavine] with UBS.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I have a question on the Ohio health plan.
It's been pretty strong in recent periods in the last 6 months ago.
I was just wondering if the MLR improvement there has kind of been notably different for the ABD population versus the DFC [ph] in the states or if it’s pretty much been moving in tandem now? I think this is John it's been moving in tandem.
Ohio is an example of where we are able to grow the business put on a focus on medical management and get some rate increases.
A combination of those 3 factors allows health plan to do very well.
Got it.
And then just to circle back around the 7% decline in the hospital admissions at the end of the quarter how does that compare to the year-over-year trend that you saw in the fourth quarter of 2010? Was the fourth quarter was that also down in equivalent amount year-over-year? I don't believe -- it's Joe speaking.
I don't believe so.
Fourth quarter over fourth quarter.
The problem with the fourth quarter when trying to compare it with the fourth quarter 2009 when we have the big spike in the flu season.
Yes it was a big blip.
I think it's fair to say that since the second third quarter of last year second half of last year we have seen reduced inpatient utilization.
I think it's been an ongoing trend.
And that's 1 reason why we're confident that at least a good chunk of what's happening is driven by the efforts we've undertaken.
And what about within the first quarter? How did that -- what's the trajectory there into the quarter? Was the admissions decline perhaps greater when you were exiting March versus kind of earlier in January year-over-year? I don't have that data sorry.
That's all I have.
Thanks guys.
[Operator Instructions]  Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Charles Boorady with Credit Suisse.
First question just going back to my notes from your Investor Day.
I recall you were assuming about a zero average rate increase for the year.
And I'm wondering are you now revising that to say we should assume something less than zero for the full year? And if so I'm wondering what changed.
No Charles.
We're sticking with our guidance numbers.
We're not assuming that it's going to get worse.
We're not assuming it's going to get better.
It is what we said back in January that continues to be our assumption.
Okay.
Got it.
So your commentary today about conserve our state budgets et cetera is that any change from what you were thinking at your Investor Day? No I don't think so.
I mean we've been telling people for a while that we thought that the rate environment was a problem.
I think that the fact that the federal government increased the FMAP for a while pushed the issue out a little bit.
But it continues to be a concern.
And it's one of the things we want people to understand.
It's a big risk for us.
Got it.
So basically no change in your thinking for an expected roughly zero average price increase for the full year? In your commentary today is it basically are you seeing anything different from what you were seeing then? Are you giving us a bias towards a potential cut in rates based on what you're seeing so far? You said something about nothing prevents states from adjusting rates downward during a contract period.
No.
Charles the reason I was saying those things I think that there's some misconception about our industry.
You hear people say things like are the rates locked in? Rates are never locked in with state governments.
They give us a rate and in the vast majority of cases that rate doesn't change throughout the course of the year.
But there have been times when rates have changed.
I think a good example of that was the successive rate decreases we saw in Wisconsin.
It's unusual but it's not unheard of.
I don't want people to take away from our discussions the notion that rates are absolutely locked in or carved in stone.
And this is a significant rate factor for us this year because of the state budget problems.
But I don't think it's really any different than what we talked about in January.
I think we signaled in January that we weren't expecting much in the way of rate increases.
And if you look at our results for the first quarter premium rate increases were up 1%.
That's not very much especially given the historic numbers that we've had which have been in the low single digits.
Yes I appreciate that.
I guess the comment around states potentially adjusting rates downward during a contract period I mean given the state budget challenges this year and given that medical trends were a lot weaker than expected last year is it more reasonable to maybe assume as a base case that the rates might get cut or do you think that's unlikely to happen and that no increase or decrease is the best expected case for the year? Charles we're going to stick by the rate schedule that we put out in January.
I think the comments that we have today really are reflective of -- we don't want our business to be solely dependent on states giving us or taking away rates.
We are managing our business based on the available revenue stream we've got.
And that's keeping our imminent costs in line with our expectations that's working on utilization and that's contracting efforts and diversification into things like MMS.
We don't want the whole discussions to be about what our rate increase is because frankly it sort of abdicates our profitably to the states.
The states may go back and change rates when they get into financial problems as Mario has said.
However they're still bound by actuarial soundness.
And Congress and CMS are looking at that whole process right now by putting some more teeth into the oversight.
Got it.
That's helpful added color.
Thank you.
The next question on free cash apparent just to make sure I got this right it's $25.6 million versus $65 million in the fourth quarter.
And I'm wondering if that's correct and what the drop related to.
It's Joe speaking.
A lot of that is essentially just timing of cash flows.
We have our weep in the first quarter.
We pay out our 2010 incentive comp accrual.
We also have to ensure that we have adequate statutory net worth in states like Wisconsin where we're going to take that premium deficiency reserve.
Obviously that diminished our network considerably.
So obviously it's a combination of normal ebbs and flows of cash and the need to fund Wisconsin in particular.
Got it.
And then in Texas I think you might have answered this.
The MLR of 91 1 which is up quite a bit sequentially.
Was that mainly new ABD lives added? I think as I said on the call we don't go into that detail but I can tell you that the Dallas-Fort Worth MCR was something less than the consolidated Texas number.
Got it.
And then just finally on the sequential enrollments dropping just by a little bit.
In Michigan by a couple of thousand in Washington 14 000 New Mexico by about 1 000.
Was there a common thread there maybe eligibility going down as employment picks up or any way to explain those changes? I think part of that in Michigan is exactly that about the population of the state and in particular in Detroit eligibility is going down.
Got it.
And in Washington state anything unusual? Well we already talked about Washington.
I think there were a number of issues.
One of them had to do with some of the changes in the provider contracts and the other is an issue on the MMIS side which we think is affecting eligibility.
We've informed the state and we're working with them to straighten out the eligibility issues in Washington.
Okay got it.
Yes I did get those comments.
So that explained that drop.
In future expectations did we already see the full impact of that or should we expect continued erosion there? No I don't expect continued erosion in Washington.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back to you Mr.
Orellana.
Thank you all.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We'll talk to you second quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you all for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 21 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Andre.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2011.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including without limitations statements regarding expected rate revisions enrollment in business growth utilization and unit cost reductions and an upward revision of our EPS guidance for fiscal year 2011.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report for fiscal year 2010 our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of July 21 2011 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan Jose.
Hello everyone and thank you for participating on the call.
Today Molina Healthcare reported earnings per diluted share of $0.38 for the second quarter of 2011.
A 41% improvement over the second quarter 2010.
We are pleased with these results which reflect our continued strength and momentum in the Medicaid space as well as the strategic benefits derived from our diversified business.
Even more exciting though are the many opportunities over the next few years.
These include upcoming Medicaid managed care procurements ABD population expansions dual eligible special needs plan expansions and MMIS procurements.
With half of the year behind us the close of the second quarter provides an appropriate point to review the progress of our business and to talk about the developments since our most recent Investor Day last January.
At that time we talked about the key measures of our financial performance: revenue medical cost and administrative cost.
Let's review each of these measures in greater detail and spend some time discussing the drivers behind each of them.
Premium revenues in the second quarter grew approximately 16% over the same period last year.
At our January Investor Day we said that our revenue growth would primarily be driven by membership increases and membership mix as opposed to premium rate increases.
Our results so far this year have been consistent with that expectation.
So far 2011 has seen an acceleration of the transition of the aged blind and disabled beneficiaries into Medicaid managed care.
During the first half of the year we added 30 000 new ABD members in the Dallas-Fort Worth service area.
As of today we've added 5 000 new ABD members in California as a result of that state's expansion.
We expect that our ABD membership in both Texas and California will continue to grow in 2011.
Today ABD members account for nearly 10% of our total enrollment.
We have also seen growth in our Medicare membership.
In terms of enrollment our Medicare special needs plan for dual-eligibles ranks 10th overall nationwide and third in the markets we serve according to the CMS Health Plan Management Systems website.
It's important to remember that all of our Medicare Special Needs Plan members are duly eligible for Medicaid and Medicare.
The experience we have gained in serving these populations will serve us well as more of this membership this moves into managed care over the next few years.
Please note that both of these populations ABD and Medicare have much higher premium revenues than our traditional membership.
Our membership for the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families or TANF consisting mainly of mothers and children has remained static during the first 2 quarters of 2011 when compared to the same periods in 2010 and 2009.
This is not surprising nor is it cause for concern.
As the unemployment rate across our states decline or remain flat membership growth begins to ease.
However we have plenty of opportunity for continued growth among new populations and new markets.
As we expected premium rates remain anemic.
We received a rate increase in Missouri but other states like New Mexico and Utah have actually implemented small rates reduction.
At the beginning of the year we said we expected rates to be either flat or down and that mix in enrollment growth would be better indicators of our business than small fluctuations in premium rates.
John will provide a summary of rate developments for the remainder of the year during his remarks.
The second key measure of financial performance is medical costs.
Little has changed in this area relative to the trends we shared with you at the first quarter.
Overall utilization tends to be favorable so far this year.
Our larger and more established health plans and fiscal agents remain profitable.
Our performance in key states like California Michigan Louisiana New Jersey New Mexico Ohio Washington and West Virginia demonstrate that with time and effort we are able to earn a fair return for our investors as we provide quality health care to our members at a lower cost to the taxpayer.
The key attributes here are patience and experience.
These health plans and fiscal agents developed the size technical expertise and relationships needed to thrive overtime.
We need time to achieve similar results in markets where we are not yet as well established.
We continue to build on our experience in Florida Idaho Texas and Wisconsin and we believe we are on the right path to success in each of these states.
In the meantime our established markets are producing favorable financial results.
The medical cost in our new Texas ABD contracts particularly in the Dallas-Fort Worth region are running substantially higher than we would like due to both high utilization and high unit cost.
We've undertaken a number of measures focused on both utilization and unit cost reductions to improve the profitability of the Texas health plan.
These utilization and unit cost issues now confronting us in Texas are not new to our Company and over time we will deal with them just as we have dealt with them in our other health plans in the past.
The third measure of financial performance is administrative cost.
Here we must strike a balance between fiscal discipline and making the investments to capitalize on many of the opportunities coming our way in the next few years.
We think we have struck the right balance and we projected an administrative cost ratio of 8.4% for all of 2011 back in January.
So far we're right on target.
Now I'd like to comment on some trends we're seeing in our competitive environment.
Let me start with Molina Medicaid Solutions.
As we identified at the beginning of the year our revenue and cost of service in this segment would primarily depend on our ability to stabilize our fiscal agent contracts in Idaho and Maine.
You may recall that our efforts to correct issues from the system implementations started under Unisys are ongoing and have been more costly than we anticipated.
I am pleased to report that we received notice from Idaho that our Medicaid Management Information System or MMIS has been approved to exit the pilot phase.
This is further evidence of the progress we're making with this contract and gives us confidence as we move towards the key goal of CMS systems certification in both Idaho and Maine.
Despite the implementation delays which are common in the MMIS industry and which can be measured in years for some states and vendors we are very pleased to have gotten these 2 systems up and running in a timely fashion by industry standards.
Now let me move on to the health plan business.
The moderation in organic growth we discussed earlier has not altered the positive outlook we have for our industry.
On the contrary the growing number of RFPs and program expansions ahead of health care reform will boost enrollment significantly as these programs are implemented.
Furthermore the robust RFP pipeline has enabled us to be more selective and strategic when investing for the long term.
In other words we've determined that we do not have to pursue every opportunity.
We will be selective.
We can focus our efforts on pursuing those that meet our strategic and financial objectives.
For example after careful consideration we elected to forego submitting a bid on the Kentucky managed care RFP.
In this RFP over 40% of the evaluation criteria was based on a 3-year price bid effectively locking in reimbursement rates by projecting medical costs for the next 3 years.
While profitably growing our business is a top priority for us preserving existing business is just as important.
Both Ohio and Washington states in which we currently operate health plans have expressed an interest in pursuing RFPs that rebid existing contracts and further expand the program by adding new populations.
Ohio intends to release a competitive procurement either late this month or early in August.
Enrollment of the eligible populations is expected to begin in July of 2012.
This will also allow Ohio to add additional Medicaid populations like the dual-eligibles and disabled children for a number of years without issuing additional procurements.
On July 14 Washington reset the probable release date for their Medicaid procurement to September 15 2011 in order to complete greater analysis and review.
The start date of the Washington contract would be July 1 2012.
We believe that our quality scores strong provider networks success in managing ABD populations commitment to Medicaid and our proven success in serving those markets will provide compelling value propositions when these states pursue RFPs.
Transitioning high-cost populations from fee-for-service to managed care continues to gain momentum and support across the country.
For example CMS agreed to fund 15 states to design programs that integrate care for Medicaid and Medicare dual-eligibles.
Currently $9 million dual-eligibles consume approximately $300 billion each year for Medicaid and Medicare services combined mostly in a fragmented fee-for-service system.
In California the state mandated ABD patients in various counties to enroll in existing managed care plans starting in the month of June.
As I said so far we've seen an increase of approximately 5 000 new ABD members.
The weighted average per-member per-month revenue on these members is approximately $450 which is about 4.5x higher than the premiums we received for TANF members in California.
Overall we're pleased with our second quarter results.
We're well positioned for the remainder of the year and we're excited about the growing number of opportunities that are rapidly developing in our industry.
I will now turn the call over to John to review the second quarter's financials in greater detail.
Thank you Mario.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.38 and as Mario mentioned earlier up 41% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $17 million or 65% over last year.
I am pleased to say that this is the highest net income we've ever reported for a second quarter.
In addition the $34.8 million we report for the first 6 months is the highest net income we have ever reported for the first half of the year.
EBITDA was up 37% over the same quarter last year.
Operating revenue for the quarter was $1.2 billion up $168 million or approximately 17% from the second quarter of 2010.
Our health plans currently serve 1.6 million members.
Our total enrollment grew by 147 000 members or 10% over the second quarter of 2010.
That includes the addition of the Wisconsin plan as well as the new CHIP and ABD contracts in the state of Texas.
Medicare enrollment exceeded 26 000 members up 29% from the same quarter last year.
As Mario discussed organic growth in our legacy states appears to be moderating.
Premium revenue grew 16% in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the same period last year due to membership and PMPM revenue increases of approximately 10% and 5% respectively.
Medicare premium revenue was $96 million for the first 3 months -- or for the 3-months ended June 30 2011 compared with $68 million for the 3-months ended June 30 2010.
As we discussed in January the rate environment remains difficult.
Premium rate changes for the second half of the year are as follows: In Missouri we received a blended increase of approximately 5% effective July 1 2011.
In New Mexico we received a blended reduction of approximately 2.5% effective July 1 2011.
In Utah we received a blended reduction of approximately 2% effective July 1 2011.
In addition Texas and California have single rate reductions.
The rates have yet to be finalized.
In light of this challenging rate environment it is essential that we aggressively manage our medical costs.
Our medical care ratio declined by 190 basis points year-over-year primarily due to lower utilization.
Fee-for-service costs increased approximately 6% PMPM partially due to the transition of members from capitated provided networks in the fee-for-service networks.
Fee-for-service and capitation costs combined increased less than 2% PMPM.
General &amp; administrative expenses for the quarter were $97 million or 8.3% of total revenue compared with $78 million or 7.8% of total revenue for the same quarter last year.
As Mario discussed we must strike a balance between our traditional practice of tight administrative cost control and the need to prepare for substantial growth and enrollment over the coming few years.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $115 million for the first half 2011 compared with $26 million for the first half of 2010.
The company had cash and investments of $885 million and the parent company had cash and investments of $50 million.
Finally we are increasing our EPS guidance for all of 2011 from a split-adjusted $1.47 to $1.55.
Strong performance by our established health plans and fiscal agents the realization of utilization improvements earlier in the year than we had anticipated and our expectation that results for our Idaho fiscal agent contract will improve in the second half of 2011 are the primary reasons for this increased guidance.
We expect these positive factors to be partially offset by premium rate reductions in some of our health plans and continuing cost challenges in Texas and Florida.
We look forward to seeing you in September at our Fall Investor Day.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Just want to make sure I understand the outlook.
You did $0.75 in the first half of the year.
That looks like it was negatively impacted by this acceleration of some cost in Idaho by the tune of about $0.09 to $0.10.
Is it right to think that the core business is looking for sort of a 5-ish cent headwind in the second half of 2011? You know again operating on the assumption that the MMIS business reduced earnings roughly $0.10 in the first half but that will not occur in the back half of this year.
Oh boy.
Chris I hate -- you know I always hate to point to one thing or the other that magnifies it.
When we look at the back half of the year when I looked at what we had projected in January which ones of those trends were coming in in line or ahead so medical utilization was more favorable.
I think if you go back to what we projected for MCR for the entire year it was around 84.2% 84.3% somewhere in that neighborhood and we're already there.
But we are looking at some pretty healthy -- we are looking at some changes to the downside in terms of rates in places like New Mexico Utah and as I said California and Texas have signaled downward.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
What -- Florida should have some rate changes coming up this fall.
What are you guys thinking you might see there at this point? At this point we don't know.
LLLP</strong> Okay because they're looking at some I think hospital fee schedule reductions 4 to 10-ish percent something along those lines.
So do you think you can still come out with a net positive or a net negative or flat? Any directional sort of flavor you could provide would be great.
Hi this is Mario.
We have seen some decreases in utilization which we're pleased with in Florida.
We still think there's a rate problem specially in Broward County.
So we are looking to see what the state does to address those issues.
We'll continue to work on lowering our cost as best as we can.
But I think part of the Florida story depends on what they do with the premium rates.
LLLP</strong> Okay and then my last question.
It looks like -- is it fair to assume that knock on wood the worst will be behind you in Idaho after this really in this -- through the second quarter of this year? This is Terry.
Yes.
The fact that we've been able to exit pilot and we're a year or so post-go live much of the stabilization the system is underway so we'll be looking forward to getting to more predictable operating levels going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays Capital.
Question for John and I didn't hear it in the prepared remarks but I see it in the press release.
Just to what seemed to be one-time items I guess the first in Utah where you talked about the recognition of some premium revenue without any expenses in 2Q.
I sort of size that at $0.09 and then there was another $0.02 this is my calculation at least there's another $0.02 from the premium deficiency reserve reversal in Wisconsin so I guess an aggregate of $0.11 in the second quarter.
I'm just curious those 2 items were they expected? Was that part of guidance or is that just part of the boost that we're seeing for the full year guidance? And how should we think about that as you were thinking about the second quarter? It's Joe speaking.
Obviously when we gave guidance back in January we knew there were going to be challenges in Wisconsin and there was an increment built into that point for the Utah settlement.
We were anticipating that.
So both of those numbers were in the guidance? Yes.
But there -- I guess just in terms of sort of just forward-looking you would consider these to be one-time in nature is that fair? A lot of it is on Wisconsin Josh it's John.
It depends on how Wisconsin actually performs in the back half of the year.
If the performance for one reason rather improves then we might be able to reduce the liability we put in for the premium deficiency reserve.
But at this point we haven't put in anything more guidance on Wisconsin.
Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just Texas.
It sounds like ABDs -- sounds like there's some challenges from an MLR perspective.
And I guess Texas put out some financial information for all of you and the competitors in there.
And it looks like your G&amp;A ratio is actually trending a little bit above your peers as well.
I'm just sort of curious because you're going through the RFP opportunities in Texas.
How should we think about that performance in light of what is coming up in terms of awards? And maybe remind us how important financial performance is relative to their expectations and maybe where service ranks for you guys et cetera.
Well Josh we talked about the Texas RFP I think in January.
Obviously Texas is a state that we put a lot of effort into getting into it a number of years ago.
And we've had some success in getting contracts for the rural CHIP and for the STAR+PLUS.
So we are doing our best in Texas.
Texas is not much different I think than Ohio was several years ago or than California was.
We go through some challenges we focus in on what needs to be fixed and we fix it and look at Ohio now.
Couple or 3 years ago it looked pretty bleak.
So we continue to invest in both our network refining our network medical management and fine-tuning the service so that we can achieve and maintain our NCQA accreditation because ultimately it's taking care of the patients that's the most important thing for us.
John you understand because I can't ask about Ohio anymore.
I have to start asking about Texas.
And then last one just in Idaho.
I hate to sort of belabor this one.
It sounds like you're out of the pilot phase it sounds like now you can recognize or I guess you can bill for certain costs.
Does that mean Idaho is break even until the big CMS approval or does it mean you're just getting a portion of your cost covered and it's still not going to keep you whole I guess the rest of the year? Josh it's Joe speaking.
A couple of points.
The exit from pilot is a milestone that's unique to the contract.
And yes the exit from pilot will trigger a milestone payment from the state to us.
As far as the contract being break-even or not essentially after the adjustment we made at June 30 the contract is break-even going forward through the termination of its initial term.
Obviously after the initial term we expect it like all of our MMIS contracts as they mature to be considerably more profitable.
Okay okay so we're just waiting to -- sort of break even until we hear the next milestone.
No essentially break-even as we project it now.
Break-even through the termination of the initial contract.
Our next question comes from the line of John Rex with JPMorgan.
I was just wondering if you could just give a little more color or specifics on exactly what those measures are you did undertake in Texas? And kind of what some of the most problematic areas are; you cited personal care services and such.
This is Terry.
Let's also keep in mind that putting the ABDs in managed care in the Dallas-Fort Worth area was a first-time event for many of those folks so this is an educational process.
There are continuity of care requirements in the initial period of the contract where you are really not permitted by the state contract to make many changes.
So as we do in all of the other markets we're approaching our cost in 2 ways.
One is to improve our unit costs.
Now that we're bigger and we have some sense of what our enrollment is we're in a position to negotiate better unit costs with our providers and that would include the home care providers as well as others providing service and secondarily the utilization.
So we are going full force to monitor the services that are authorized and ensure that they're in compliance with state regulation.
And most of you know this area has potential for abuse and we're committed to making sure that folks get the services they need and that are allowed under the state agreement.
So is home care the biggest issue that you're seeing right now? I mean if you it is? I'll tell you a little bit more about it.
It's the personal care services arrangements by which folks who are in their homes instead of institutionalized are receiving more than what you might think of as traditional home care but any -- an array of services in the home.
So should we think about it that you're finding instances of like 24/7 home care or something like that and that's what you're dealing with or...
It's not always 24/7 it will depend on what the members' needs are.
It might be need for assistance in daily living support services during the day.
Okay and then just broadly your other utilization commentary.
I think similar to last quarter I think you cited a decline in inpatient bed days.
It looks like you're citing that this time also broadly across the book.
Can you kind of spike out any specifics there in what you're seeing driving that? This is Mario.
I think it's a combination of a sort of a secular trend.
I think everyone is seeing decreases in utilization.
I think we've also been working to improve our medical management to be sure that we are having the right people in the hospital at the right time and eliminate overutilization.
So it's a maturation of some of our medical management as well.
But I think it's a combination of those 2.
And Mario is OB still having an impact there? Are you still seeing declining birthrates or has that stabilized and started trending up again? No the birthrates seem to be flat.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Just a first question just on the Medicaid Solutions business.
And it might be helpful if you have an updated estimate on the cost of services ratio for the full year just given that the quarterly trends have certainly been bouncing around quite a bit on the margin side in that business in the last few quarters.
Hi it's Joe speaking.
I think if you will look at the second half of the year standalone you might look to 10% to 12%.
Okay that's helpful.
Then second question Mario maybe if you can give us your latest read on the intelligence that you're hearing out of Washington.
Just on the deficit reduction discussions and how those impact Medicaid.
Clearly events are moving by the second there but maybe just a summary would be helpful.
Did you mention intelligence and Congress in the same sentence? That I did and that was -- I don't know what I was thinking there but...
Well the whole thing is really very much up in the air.
I think there are things that could be done like the acceleration of the movement of the Duals into managed care that can really help with this deficit issue at the same time providing the same or frankly better levels of care for the beneficiaries at a lower cost.
One of the things we see with the Duals is that frequently when they get into managed care they have somebody to help them.
And it's really interesting some of the calls we've gotten on our member services line people saying things like "I've never really had anyone help me before." So I think that is something that could be a win for the patients and a win for the budget.
Beyond that I don't really want to speculate as to what Congress is going to do.
Okay.
Then just any updates you can give us on Louisiana.
I know you don't usually talk about sort of bidding on a new business but is it your expectation that we should hear an update on that on Monday? You know I don't know what's happening with the bids in Louisiana so I can't tell you.
Okay.
Then just last question.
Just going back to California ABD.
Any initial sense of how the utilization is tracking down there? I know you just started ramping up there in June but just any sense of initial cost relative to expectation? And then do you have an estimate for how much ABD membership you're expecting to have in California in the back half of the year? Well what I would say on that is that we've had ABD members on a voluntary basis in California for some time.
We have contracts and networks put together.
So it's a little bit different scenario than what you have in Texas where you rolled a lot of people into a new system.
As far as we can tell right now the utilization in California appears to be consistent with previous experience.
As far as the estimates of the enrollment we gave an estimate at the Investor Day and I think we're going to stick with that.
That was about 12 000 members.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Lavine with UBS.
As was referenced in the call earlier to see that TANF enrollments have been largely stable since the latter part of 2010.
I was just curious about the levers of that stable memberships just in terms of this -- do you see anything in terms of changes perhaps in the trajectory of monthly gross adds versus maybe being offset by people staying on Medicaid longer and if there's any kind of numbers you put around that? This is Mario again.
I don't want to get into specifics but I think that generally speaking what we have seen is a flattening out of the enrollment and this reflects a modest improvement in the economy.
At the same time the requirement for maintenance of effort is also helping to maintain the current levels.
I don't anticipate big changes either upward or downward over the next couple of quarters unless we were to take market share but I mean it's -- I think that the Medicaid population has stabilized and growth will moderate over the next few quarters.
Okay I got it.
It's helpful.
And also in Ohio you guys have done a great job there.
The recent strong margins certainly look to reflect that.
And I was just wondering how the impending RFP might change the margin trajectory there.
Is this something that may drive some sort of margin reset to an extent in the first year of the renewal assuming that you retain the business? Ohio has not typically done a price bid in the previous RFPs that we've looked at so we certainly will be going to a rate discussion with the state for an effective date of January 1.
We are also anticipating the carve-in of the pharmacy benefit back in later this year.
So those things will have some impacts that we really can't quantify at the moment.
Our next question comes the line of Brian Wright with Citadel Securities.
LLC</strong> Could you just walk us a little bit through the decision to increase the completion factor to about 150 basis points year-over-year this quarter? Because it just seems a little at odds with the per-member inventory at the end of the quarter being flat year-over-year? Are you talking about claims reserves Brian? It's Joe.
LLC</strong> Yes exactly.
Yes.
We developed our claims reserves essentially just based on what our actuaries develop and obviously reviewed by the actuary team of our independent auditors.
I don't know that there is a specific intent to change completion factors.
It is just more or less what falls out of the analysis.
Obviously days in claims payable is down but I would also point out that our run out from 12/31/10 is again very consistent year-over-year.
LLC</strong> Okay and then lastly with the potential -- if you just give us an update on the Louisiana or the MMIS contract down there.
You're protesting it.
So because it's under protest you're not going to make any decisions as far as asset kind of impairment or anything like that until that protest is either won or lost or whatever? Is that? Brian it's Joe speaking again.
Let me talk a little bit about that.
A couple of points to bear in mind.
First of all even if we were to lose that contract we're going to continue to serve the state while the new system is developed for several years.
So we have -- when we lost the contracts we did undertake a potential impairment analysis and that analysis as of today indicates that even if we were to lose that contract we would not have any goodwill impairment of the MMIS goodwill.
Our next question comes the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Could you remind me on the 55 000 Medicaid lives in Florida the breakdown between reformed counties and non-reform counties? I remember in fact I think the bulk of it is in reform counties.
Yes I think it's about 60/40 reform and a big chunk of that's Broward County.
Okay.
And is it right to think about the cost pressures that you're seeing in Florida relating primarily to the reformed counties? Or is it more widespread across the entire book? I think that Broward County is front and center in terms of things that have to be addressed.
And then the other question is just Utah has talked about some potential changes to their Medicaid program.
It sounds like moving away from managed care to something else more like an accountable care organization.
I'm just interested in your thoughts on that in terms of likelihood of that change happening and then also if it does the timing around that.
Carl I wouldn't say that that's 100% accurate.
I mean what the state of Utah wants to do is they want to put more members into risk environments.
We are right now the only plan that's fully at risk in Utah.
The other 2 plans that take care of Medicaid beneficiaries are not at risk.
So it's really -- and they're provider-based systems.
So the whole notion of accountable care organizations really is to draw those folks into a greater risk contract arrangement.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
It looks like there was somewhat of an uptick in physician and outpatient costs and I'm wondering how much of this is pricing versus volume.
And if it is volume is this being driven by some new populations coming on or a possible shift of where people are choosing to get the care done? Sarah this is John.
I think there's a couple of factors there.
One we did terminate some capitated contracts and moved them to fee-for-service so you would see an increase in physician and outpatient services.
And then also with the increase in membership in Dallas for the STAR+PLUS there's an lot of outpatient services.
The personal care services that Terry talked about earlier would be classified as outpatient services.
I think those are the 2 primary things.
We're not really seeing across-the-board rate increases in physician unit cost.
And is there any update on some of the MMIS RFPs? I know Vermont and Arkansas were expected out around this time.
I'm sorry Sarah could you say it again you kind of faded out at the end.
Sorry I was wondering if there's any update on the MMIS RFPs possibly for Vermont or Arkansas? Vermont had an RFP and they decided to pull it and are re-examining the direction they want to go.
Arkansas I think is still in drafting if I'm not mistaken.
But it's really in the question.
It's in the question period for bidders.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady with Credit Suisse.
First question on Texas just you talked about the challenges there and I'm just wondering how long they take to address and approximately when do you expect the loss ratio to get into your targeted range.
Charles that's a really good question.
I think that there's a certain amount of pent-up demand in Texas that we're seeing with the move of the STAR+PLUS patients into managed care.
I think that there is a certain maturation that has to go on of that health plan in terms of gearing up their management systems.
I think we're a little bit behind the curve there.
And it will take in the order of a few quarters I would imagine.
I can't give you an exact answer.
It's going to be what it turns out to be.
It's certainly getting a lot of attention and somebody mentioned about the resources.
I think that we're putting a lot of resources into Texas right now.
And part of that is not only to deal with the STAR+PLUS utilization that we're seeing in Dallas but also to build in preparation for the contracts that will come with the next RFPs.
So there's some infrastructure building going on there as well.
Got it.
And you used to show -- I remember a few Investor Days ago you had a chart showing how as new lives aged the loss ratios improved because of the sort of pent-up demand as they first enrolled.
So is this sort to be expected kind of a typical experience and one that we should expect with any start-up market in new populations coming in? Or would you also say that there is certain execution failures that you need to address things that went wrong operationally that shouldn't have gone wrong? Charles first of all let me compliment you on your memory.
That's pretty good because that was about 3 Investor Days ago we did that chart.
I think that our expectation is that Dallas will follow the same pattern.
I think where it's different in Dallas is that the initial spike is higher than we are used to seeing and that surprises a bit.
But we're confident that as it follows the same pattern and we put in things like prior authorization for certain services as the cognitive care requirements come away and as we renegotiate contracts especially with the myriad of home care providers and sort of narrow the network down that we'll get some traction on the medical cost side.
This is Mario.
I think there are a lot of parallels with what we saw in Ohio.
Small health plans struggling with some growing pains.
As the membership grows we'll be in a better position to go back to some of the providers and get better contracts.
I think that the medical management staff will mature over time.
I also think it's an interesting contract with California because in California you have mandatory enrollment of the ABD patients but we've already had voluntary enrollment.
So there are some patients that have already enrolled on a voluntary basis and we have experience with them.
We also have a much larger contracting base in California just because we've been here for a long time and have lot of members.
So that's why I think California is a little bit different than what we're seeing in Texas.
And let me add one more thing and not to beat a dead horse but the Dallas contract is unique in that inpatient is carved out behavioral health is carved out and pharmacy is carved out.
That presents 2 challenges.
One it presents a challenge for folks to have to manage that to make sure that we're providing the right services and not providing services that the state has carved out and carved out really for the right sides.
So it's also a challenge for the state to make sure that they've nailed the right side adequately.
So when we hear from Texas in a few weeks about your wins and we try to model your wins and the ramping up of some of these ABD lives with the new contract is it fair to say that we should not expect the loss ratio to be quite this high? It should be high but not quite this high because of some of the unusual situations like the home care and other things that you talked about that affected this business? I would say that that's a fair statement from about 50 000 feet.
But then I'd also encourage you to come talk to us in September when we have our Investor Day because I would imagine that this would be one of the primary topics we'll talk about.
And Ohio since Josh kind of -- he said that he can't ask about it anymore I'll pick up that baton.
You're doing great there and I just want to confirm that's a calendar year end right before you get new rates.
Am I right on that? And then what would you expect the state's response to be in light of your success there in keeping costs low.
What would a normal loss ratio fee that you would expect going forward? Well normally-- well I should not say normally the rate year for Ohio is a January to December rate year.
It follows the calendar year.
When we get the responsibility for pharmacy back in and I believe it's October there will be an adjustment for that benefit.
When the states are setting the rates individual health plan performance is a factor but it is not the only factor because there are other plans in Ohio that may be doing as well better or worse than we are.
So they've got to set a rate that's sort of across-the-board.
I don't know what -- if Ohio has a targeted loss ratio or not.
Okay and then just my last question.
The drop in the days claims payable I think you addressed it a little bit.
I'm not sure if I captured the essence of why it was down and whether you can share the prior period reserve developments that related to this year and that related to last year that were included in today's results.
Well We always disclose prior period reserve development from 12/31 of preceding year and it's consistent with what we've seen in other years.
3/31 is a little bit immature right now to talk about.
Got it okay.
Can you tell us what you baked in in the results you reported that related to 3/31? We don't really look at it that way Charles.
Our final question comes from the line of Scott Green with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So a question on Dallas.
My understanding was that Amerigroup was managing some of these lives on an ASO basis before they transitioned to managed care? So I mean did the population just have the traditional behavioral patterns of people in fee-for-service or what was that like when you brought some of those lives on? Scott I'm not aware of what Amerigroup was or wasn't doing in Dallas.
So I can't comment on that.
What we're seeing is we are seeing some pent-up demand.
We're seeing -- I think that one of the concerns was when folks found out about managed care and greater access to services they utilized them.
So whether that's ER or some of your primary care services or personal attendant services we are seeing an increase in utilization for services.
And I think it's fair to say that the utilization patterns we're seeing in Dallas are different than what we are seeing in other parts of the state.
That's correct.
I mean those are the factual things we can tell you.
As far as what Amerigroup did you can ask them when they have their call.
Okay and they're different than other parts of the state just because it's an immature population or because of the home care stuff you described previously? Part of it is the fact that it was fee-for-service before and other areas went to a more mature managed care market.
Part of it is a different benefit pattern.
I think in Houston we have behavioral health carved in.
So there are differences a lot in the contracts.
That's why one of the nice things about the RFP is that it's going to be more uniform across the state in terms of the benefits that are carved in and carved out and our responsibility will increase for things like inpatient and pharmacy.
Okay all right.
And then are there any other states besides Michigan and Washington where members are transitioning to fee-for-service networks from capitation? Those were the only 2 out in the press release.
Because those were pretty big groups where we changed the contractual relationships.
It happens to a lesser degree in other states but Washington and Michigan had some pretty big groups that we did at transition.
And those are your re-contracting initiatives? I thought I remembered last conference call you might have mentioned that the providers were increasingly preferring to participate in the fee-for-service networks instead of capitation? That was the case in Michigan.
I believe in Washington it was just the economics didn't work out for us to continue the capitation contracts with those groups.
Okay.
And so the MLRs in those markets actually fell sequentially.
So you don't see when that transition happens to a fee-for-service network that just the incentives of the providers change and you see some utilization increase.
You're not seeing any of that? No.
Okay.
So on the front page of the press release where you talked about fee-for-service and capitation cost up 2% sequentially.
So I just wanted to make sure I understand that because there could be mix changes going on there too but it is the way to think about that since the MLR excluding the Utah issue the Utah payment that you received and Texas which is a new population.
The MLR was essentially flat sequentially excluding those items and I don't think rates changed sequentially between first quarter and second quarter.
Is cost trend basically flattish sequentially? If your rates are kind of flattish sequentially and the MLR was flattish sequentially? It's pretty flattish yes.
And then for California where you spoke about an expectation for a modest rate reduction.
Is there any consideration in that for changes to the provider rates that were also proposed? Or is that a separate issue? Because I believe -- I recall in the budget proposal there was a modest increase but also potentially a provider rate cut.
So I'm not sure if you were netting those out or those are 2 distinct issues.
I think that those are 2 distinct issues.
We know one and we don't know the impact.
Or we've gotten information on one but not of the other.
So that's why didn't explicitly say this is what California is doing to the rates.
Okay but you said they're going down? Correct.
We anticipate the premium rates will go down in California.
And then we're waiting to see on what happens with the provider rate issue? Yes.
And you mentioned Broward County specifically a couple of times.
I just wanted to make sure I understand.
So is that a county potentially you would consider exiting if the rate update in September was not what you deem to be appropriate because before you kind of said that it's an investment market and you're going to stick it out like you do in other markets? We need to see what happens with the rates for all of Florida and specifically for Broward County before we make decisions and want to call out that we may or may not exit the county.
This is Mario.
Let me just also comment on that.
When you look at the premium rates by county in Florida they vary tremendously.
And one of the things we're hoping the state will do is to come up with a little bit more uniform rates and spread the money around across all the counties.
But having said that we will give serious consideration to exiting Broward County if we can't get adequate rates.
I mean that's just the way it is.
We've done that in the past in other states in other areas.
We're not afraid to leave a county if we have to.
We will give it a good try.
We'll work with the state and present our arguments as to why the rates need to be adjusted.
But in the end if the premium rates are just not adequate we can't stay.
And Broward has been a challenging county.
I think there are a couple of other health plans that exited in the last 12 months or so.
We're patient but there is a limit to our patience.
Okay and you might be stress testing some of these limits as it relates to Broward.
You're calling out Broward it seems like.
What -- can you tell us what the MLR is in Broward for your book? No we don't go down to that level of detail.
We go to a lot of detail but MLR by county is getting a little too granular.
Can you remind me how many lives you have in Broward? On top of my head I don't recall.
I think it's about 60% of the total.
Yes I think so.
So it's probably 25% 30% 30 000.
Okay because the MLR sequentially in Florida it seems like it was basically unchanged up 35 basis points or so.
But you're suggesting the Broward MLR deteriorated sequentially? We're not suggesting anything right now.
Broward is an issue.
There are other issues in Florida that we're getting addressed.
Some of these things that we're addressing are within our control and some of them like the rates are not completely in our control.
So we are just going to work through the rate process and see what happens.
Again we'll update you when we have more information.
This concludes the question-and-answer session for today's call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Orellana.
Please go ahead sir.
Well thanks everyone for joining us and as John mentioned we will see you at Investor Day in September.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the presentation for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday October 25 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana Vice President of Investor Relations with Molina Healthcare.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Allan.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2011.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you happen to have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions as well.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including statements regarding our earnings per share guidance for 2011 expected rate changes and opportunities relating to the migration of dual eligibles into managed care.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report for fiscal year 2010 our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab at our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of October 25 2011 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion of third quarter 2011 financial results.
Let me begin by saying that I'm very pleased with the performance of our business both in financial terms as well as our strategic execution.
Our team's efforts resulted in a quarter that reached the highest levels of both revenue and net income that we've ever had.
For the third quarter of 2011 we earned $19 million in net income or $0.41 per diluted share despite operating in the most complicated premium rate environment in the history of our company.
For fiscal year 2011 6 out of 10 of our states actually cut their premium rates.
Nevertheless today's financial results were consistent with our expected quarterly performance towards achieving the full year guidance of $1.55 per diluted share.
Our comments today will be brief since there was considerable discussion about our business as well as the key drivers of our financial performance at the company's Investor Day held on September 15.
During that presentation we discussed various business drivers including the premium rate environment in our industry and specifically in our markets the performance of our legacy health plans versus our newer startup health plans and utilization trends.
Although there have been no fundamental changes to these drivers there are a few updates that we want to share with you.
Let me begin with the rates.
Our forecast at the beginning of the year that premium rates in 2011 would be flat to down has borne out as we now have full rate visibility and we believe our industry will continue to operate in a state of flat to down rates for the near future.
State budgets have yet to recover and the expiration of the enhanced federal matching funds have exerted pressure on state premium rates.
You may recall that at our Investor Day we did not have premium rate information on Florida Michigan and Washington all of which became effective in either September or October of this year.
We now have those rates.
In Washington rates were reduced by approximately 1% effective October 1.
This rate decrease is consistent with our projections that rates will be flat to down.
However in a bit of positive news regarding rates Florida and Michigan benefited from blended rate increases of approximately 7.5% and 1% respectively.
In Florida where the rate increase was effective September 1 the increase is particularly helpful to Medicaid reform counties like Broward where medical cost trend has outpaced premium rates for quite some time.
Blended rates in Broward County increased by nearly 10%.
In Michigan the 1% rate increase which became effective on October 1 was consistent with our previous expectations.
Given the effective date of the new premium rates for Florida Michigan and Washington the revenue impact will be fully reflected in the fourth quarter of 2011 and will continue into 2012.
Although rates have been a challenge our business remains strong and we are reaffirming our guidance of $1.55 per diluted share for 2011.
Our established or legacy health plans continue to perform well and our consolidated medical costs have been stable.
Excluding Texas which has experienced high utilization and a considerable influx of new members fee-for-service costs remained flat.
Hospital utilization was flat when compared to the second quarter and declined approximately 7% year-over-year.
Our newer markets are improving financially.
For example the medical costs of the Florida plan on a per member per month basis have decreased both sequentially and year-over-year primarily due to initiatives implemented to reduce pharmacy costs and a new behavioral health contract.
The 7.5% premium increase that became effective on September 1 will help improve profitability in this state.
While managing medical costs is essential to our business we remain equally focused on quality.
We were very pleased earlier this month when Molina Healthcare of Missouri earned an accreditation from the National Committee on Quality Assurance.
This brings the number of NCQA-accredited Molina Medicaid health plans to 9.
We're especially proud that our focus on quality has attracted national attention and recognition from Consumer Reports which ranks the top Medicaid health plans in the country.
Finally Molina Medicaid Solutions currently shares many similarities with our health plan business as it relates to contract maturity.
Like the Health Plan business our legacy or established fiscal agent contracts are stable and contributing to earnings while the newer start-up states like Maine and Idaho have resulted in short-term losses.
However we believe that once we get through the certification process the performance of Idaho and Maine will improve.
Maine has already completed its certification audit visit from CMS and we should find out the result by the end of the year.
A substantial milestone was achieved in Idaho when we received notice from the state of Idaho that our system was out of the pilot phase.
This milestone triggered payments of approximately $10 million which were received during the quarter.
We anticipate the CMS certification audit visit for Idaho to occur in early December.
As a reminder given the accounting intricacies of the fiscal agent business we are not recognizing revenue and expense in Idaho yet but the payment does have a cash flow impact.
As you can see during the first few quarters of 2011 we have executed our strategy in a way that has improved our performance for the year while providing an even more solid foundation for the future.
We believe our 31-year history in this business and our capacity for adaptation to economic cycles makes us exceptionally well suited for this task.
It positions us to succeed even in today's challenging economic environment.
Near-term economic and industry factors are also incubating new opportunities for our company in the areas of direct delivery and care coordination for the dual eligible population.
We've long talked about our direct delivery capabilities as a vehicle for enhancing access in underserved communities.
This year our direct delivery presence has increased with the opening of 4 new clinics in California and 1 in Washington.
Additional clinics are also in the pipeline in Florida and New Mexico.
Another key and transformational opportunity remains the transition of the dual eligible population into Managed Care.
I spoke about this topic in more detail at our Investor Day on September 15 so please feel free to refer back to those materials.
Currently there are nearly 9 million beneficiaries that qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare.
This population is the sickest of the sick with multiple chronic conditions and behavioral health issues that account for nearly $300 billion annually in total spending.
3/4 of this population live at 125% or below the federal poverty level and many face the same challenges that plague the low-income populations currently served by our health plans.
This is a population that is a natural extension of our service offering and that we believe will benefit the most from Managed Care.
We are strategically positioned to serve this population through our dual eligible Medicare Special Needs plan which is currently ranked as the eighth largest special needs plan in the country and through our presence in 3 states with the largest dual eligible populations: California Florida and Texas.
There's already work underway and CMS awarded 15 states planning grants for migrating dual eligibles into Managed Care.
3 of those 15 states are also where Molina has its largest health plans.
This is a huge opportunity larger than many of the Medicaid RFPs currently in the pipeline and we look forward to expanding our presence in assisting this vulnerable population.
Our company began with a mission to bring quality care to those who need it most but can least afford it.
In addition to our growth over the years we remain committed to this mission.
It is at the core of what makes Molina Healthcare different.
We are a mission-driven culture.
We have the physician-focused leadership legacy of our founder my father Doctor C.
David Molina and we have 31 years of experience in this industry.
We have a flexible delivery model that includes health plans fiscal agents and direct delivery.
There is no other healthcare organization that can say that.
Our results show that we're taking the right approach to this environment and that the underlying fundamentals of our business continue to support our aspirations for the future.
In the near term that means leveraging the performance of our established health plans while working to improve the performance in newer markets.
I will now turn the call over to John who will review our financial results in greater detail.
Thank you Mario.
Hello everybody.
We are pleased with our results today.
EPS for the quarter was $0.41 up 8% from a year ago.
Net income for the quarter was $19 million up 17% over last year and EBITDA increased by nearly 10% over the same period one year ago.
As Mario mentioned these are the highest levels we've ever achieved for these financial metrics.
At the end of the quarter our enrollment stood at 1.7 million members.
Enrollment was up across the majority of our health plans on a sequential basis.
The bulk of the enrollment gains were in Texas where the company began serving new TANF and ABD members in the Jefferson County service area effective September 1 of this year.
Our Medicare enrollment continued to grow steadily and topped 28 000 members during the quarter.
Our year-to-date Medicare revenue grew to $282 million nearly 50% higher than it was one year ago.
As a reminder nearly 80% of our Medicare enrollment is comprised of dual eligibles.
Consolidated premium revenues grew 13% to $1.2 billion in the third quarter of 2011 compared to the same period last year due to an 8% increase in membership and a 5% increase in PMPM revenue due to mix shift.
Mario has already spent some time discussing the rates in his remarks and there's no question of the impact that flat to down rates have had on our business.
There are also other revenue adjustments we made in the quarter that while not necessarily one-time in nature nevertheless can serve to obscure the underlying strong performance we are observing across our health plans.
For example reductions to revenue due to a minimum medical care floor in New Mexico and a private cap in Texas had a negative $5.9 million impact in the third quarter of 2011 compared to a benefit of $2.9 million in the third quarter of 2010.
This is an $8.8 million swing in results.
In California the medical care ratio jumped to nearly 89%.
As we discussed at our Investor Day the California plan accrued for the 10% provider rate reduction that the state of California announced in July.
If approved by CMS the provider rate cut and our capitation rate will be retroactive to July 1 2011.
In consideration of these intentions we made an accrual that resulted in a $7.5 million reduction to revenue during the third quarter without any offset to medical costs.
Absent these adjustments which negatively impacted our financials for the quarter our results would have been better than the strong performance we recorded today.
In light of this challenging revenue environment it is essential that we aggressively manage our costs.
Excluding the Texas health plan which has seen an increase in costs that we have previously detailed fee-for-service costs were flat on a PMPM basis.
Fee-for-service and capitation costs combined increased approximately 4%.
Of note is that hospital utilization decreased approximately 7% year-over-year.
General and administrative expenses for the quarter remained flat at 8.5% of revenue despite the need to invest in preparation for healthcare reform ICD-10 implementation and the implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning system brought on to help with our growth.
You may also recall that at our Investor Day we announced the rightsizing of our credit facility.
As a result of this change we wrote off approximately $1.1 million in capitalized issuance costs.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $155 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2011 compared with $9.5 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2010.
The company had cash and investments of $881 million and the parent company had cash and investments of $54 million.
Days in claims payable remained flat sequentially.
Our board has authorized a share buyback program of up to $75 million.
This is in addition to the $7 million program announced in July of 2011.
Finally we are reaffirming our EPS guidance of $1.55 for the year ended December 31 2011.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder if you have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that we have time for everyone to have an opportunity to ask questions.
Allan we're now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Texas -- I guess I'm just a little confused on Texas rebate versus the Texas MLR issue so is it just because the new members are coming in and that doesn't count as sort of a statewide profit? Is it just -- is just CHIP the only thing that counts or is that profit cap? I'm just sort of confused as to why the MLR was a lot higher and yet you're still accruing some of these negative revenue accruals because of the rebates you needed there? Josh this is John.
The profit cap is based on the product line and so CHIP's got one.
Actually they all have one but in CHIP our MCR is low enough that we've got to do a rebate but the other lines of business it's high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You don't get to sort of offset any of that within the state? No you don't.
Research Division</strong> And then -- sorry just one more quick correction or question.
You put in the press release you talked about a potential for provider payment recoupment in California and I was just curious what the potential size was or how that would go about or how that would come about I should say? Well if the fee schedule goes into effect as the state of California has planned that would reduce the medical fee schedule by 10%.
To the extent that we had providers that we paid at the higher rate going back to July 1 we would have the ability to go back and recoup the difference between what we pay them and the new fee schedule.
Research Division</strong> And is there a way to size what that is? We have not done that yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know they've done retro cuts before.
Have you been successful in going back to providers and saying "We overpaid CHIP [ph].
Here's the new fee schedule"? The answer to that is somewhere between 0% of the time and 100% of the time.
Our next question will come from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Another clarifying question on the California issue is the 6% assumed reduction only -- will that only occur if the 10% fee schedule reduction occurs? Does one have to happen for the other to occur I guess is what I'm trying to ask? Yes.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us a sense for -- I know there's been some ongoing legal issues there court hearings.
Where does that process stand at this point? There are 2 separate processes going on.
A prior rate change from several years ago has been contested and worked its way through the courts and I believe it was heard by the Supreme Court this past month.
That relates to who has standing to sue regarding the rates.
The current rate year has a proposed 10% rate cut in place and that has been submitted to CMS for approval.
The 2 are not at this point connected.
Our next question will come from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Sam Wass on for Matt.
I know that you mentioned that hospital utilization is down 7%.
I was wondering if it'd be possible to go into any more specifics on that whether you saw variation across different markets? Sam this is Mario.
No we're not going to break it out by market.
Suffice it to say we saw a 7% decrease year-to-date as compared to last year and that from the second to the third quarter hospital utilization was flat.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And is there anything worth noting on physician or outpatient? Well I think we talked about what the changes were for pharmacy physician and outpatient so I don't think there's anything more remarkable beyond what we described in the release.
Our next question will come from the line of Charles Boorady with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question just a small nit here on the deficiency reserve release.
Can you size that up for us? Was it roughly in the $0.02 to $0.04 range? It's about -- it's Joe speaking Charles.
It's 1.8 million so a hair over $0.02.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of your guidance for the year what are you assuming for fourth quarter influenza? Well Charles we don't break it out that way.
What we have said and maintain is that we are looking at $1.55 for the year.
Research Division</strong> Basically we assume that you bake in a typical flu season for the year which hasn't really been picking up.
It's kind of early in the season but as we look at one of your guidance [ph]...
It is early but we always take that into consideration when we develop our numbers for the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
As we look out to the new expansions in 2012 there's some expansions in existing markets and in some new markets.
How should we think about the marginal admin cost that comes with some of the new contract wins? Well I think we talked a lot about that at the Investor Day back on September 15 so I would refer you back to our discussions of the new and expanded markets that we talked about especially in Texas.
There will be some additional incremental admin costs but since we're already operating in Texas for example it's not going to be large.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Yes those were helpful slides.
just a wide range of possibilities for 2012 still.
And I guess getting some more granularity on that when do you think you'd have a reasonable range down at the EPS level of where you think putting those components together we'd get to next year? Well we're not prepared to talk about 2012 guidance at this time so it would probably have to wait until after the first of the year.
Research Division</strong> So after Jan.
1.
All right great.
Just finally as you look at the various components of medical trend and I know you gave us some of those components on the call today after the quarter ended just in the last say month or as you look towards the end of the last quarter you reported -- do you start to see any inflection points at all in any of those components where costs are either continuing to decrease surprisingly or starting to bend upward? It's too early to make any definitive statements Charles.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I was looking at the 4 states in which you had rate changes that were either not effective until after the quarter or effective for only part of the quarter and I wondered if it was possible or if you looked at what your MCR would have been had those rates been effective for the full third quarter and what would the net effect those had been? You know what we didn't do that analysis.
I'm not really sure how meaningful it would have been.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could ask one other then.
Sure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In Texas on the comments around higher utilization is that exclusively related to the new ABD members or is that a statement that reflects more of a broader base of membership that's driving utilization? This is Terry Bayer.
It's reflective of the new membership and it ties back to what we've shared with you when we go into a new market we run it at a higher cost until we're able to institute all of our programs.
So that applies in this case to the new membership in the Dallas/Fort Worth service area this year.
Our next question will come from the line of Tom Caroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A clarification on the California revenue adjustment of $7.5 million is that just for third quarter or is that an amount that you expect to cover the entire second half of this year? No Tom.
Joe can answer that.
Yes Tom it's Joe.
That is just the estimated third quarter impact so about $2.5 million a month.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is -- I mean if things don't get finalized could we see a paragraph like this on your fourth quarter call or do you expect to have things wrapped up by then? It's certainly possible Tom.
It all depends on what happens with CMS in the state but this is our best estimate based on what they've told us and what the revenue is going to look like.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
If we...
will go with the final rates.
If we don't you will see another paragraph next quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And on your repurchase that you mentioned the $75 million I think this is the largest repo authorization we have ever seen out of Molina right certainly since your IPO.
Do you have a corporate policy on how those shares are to be repurchased over time a methodology? I'm not sure what you mean.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is it going to be pro-rata is it going to be based on some kind of share price formula relative to a benchmark is it going to be just purely opportunistic on your part? The board gave us latitude Tom.
Really what triggered it was for a while our shares were trading below book value and did not make a lot of sense for us to just have a sitdown at that level.
So to the extent that we see that the stock is undervalued we now have the ability to deploy capital to repurchase those shares.
Our next question will come from the line of Scott Green with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> What would be your forward view of what a normal cost trend is? And you've executed well to keep costs flat here.
How long do you think that can continue? Scott I'm not sure that in our business there is one normal cost trend.
We've got 10 health plans with 10 different things happening in each of them.
So realistically we don't look at what the future cost trends may be.
What we've got to do is manage within the budget that the state gives us.
And -- this is Mario.
Let me just add states have the ability to influence cost trends.
A good example is what's happening in California where they are decreasing rates to providers and this is not uncommon in the Medicaid program for states to make adjustments to the benefits or to the payments they make to providers and that influences what our medical cost trend will be.
And that's really beyond our control.
That's set by the states.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when states are sitting down and calculating what a rate of date [ph] should be going forward they have to make some projection of trend.
Is there some general range that they use in some of your more mature core markets? No I don't want to generalize it.
I mean what you saw as an example our rate in Florida ended up being 7.5% because of where our population is distributed in that state relative to the state as a whole which I think the state gave out rates that were basically flat but because of where we were in the cost in those particular submarkets of Florida we were able to get a higher rate increase.
Yes.
This is Mario again.
The rates must be actuarially sound and so each state must look at the rates independently based on the experience and come up with an actuarially sound rate and they do it typically in rate sales.
So it may vary from geographic region to geographic region it may vary depending on the 8 code [ph] of the beneficiaries.
So it's a complex thing and it's very difficult to generalize a single number.
I mean I think you can look back over the years and probably come up with some numbers but again it's a mosaic.
It's lots of little pieces that get blended together to come up with the final number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could we assume that your rate increase in Florida is adequate so that you remain in all your counties? I think you had spoken last quarter about using the rates to gauge your future operations in a few of the reform counties? We are happy with the rates that we receive in Florida.
Our next question will come from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us any update on the Washington State rebid? Has there been any new information there in terms of how that business is going to work and what populations are going to be included there? This is Terry Bayer.
I believe at our Investor Day we didn't quite have the fully released RFP so I can update now.
That RFP is released.
It is due back to the state on December 2 and at this time the current populations as well as they have added the SSI population in Washington so that will be a new population based on this RFP.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you have some dollar numbers around how big that will be? No not at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit about the Wisconsin rate environment? You had a tough rate there at the beginning of this past year of 2011 and sort of moving getting closer to the 2012 rate.
Have you been in discussions with them about sort of your situation on MLR there and what they're likely going to do with the rates in 2012? We certainly shared our data with the Medicaid agency at the state of Wisconsin but at this point they haven't given us final rates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any feeling for which direction that's going to go or is it too early to tell? I think it's too early to tell.
Our next question will come -- is a follow-up question from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question on California again.
And I think it was Josh that brought it up that you had highlighted that you haven't recorded any potential recovery of provider payments you've only taken a hit against your potential reimbursement loss.
I'm trying to think how -- I know you said you haven't thought about quantifying that yet but tell me if this is kind of an appropriate back-of-the-envelope way of looking at it.
If you've got $7.5 million this quarter let's say you have another $7.5 million next quarter for $15 million total let's assume you can mitigate half of that.
I mean can I estimate that $7.5 million you might get back and if I tax adjust that that's like $0.10 a share on a full year that your guidance could be underestimated by? Meaning you should be reporting a higher number by about $0.10 cents? Is that a way to think about it or am I way off base? The challenge Tom is what's that -- your initial math is right 7.5 and 7.5.
The challenge is what's the percentage that we can get back and the real issue for us is California tends to have more IPAs and so those contracts need to be negotiated one-on-one.
And then I believe that inpatient and pharmacy are also going to be a challenge.
I think inpatient may be excluded from that rate cut and there's something about pharmacy to where it can or can't be adjusted.
That's why we haven't done it.
I'm just trying to be conservative until the rates actually come out.
We certainly can't tell with the providers now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So -- but that's the math though right? I mean if you could mitigate half of what I just threw out there it would be like $0.10 a share? That's probably right Tom.
It's just a question of what are the final rates going to be how much of this fee-for-service cut can we pass on to the providers how much we will be able to recoup.
I think to the extent that we're paying people off the Medicaid fee schedule recoupment shouldn't be a big problem but as John points out a lot of our physician payments in California are tied to capitation rates.
So...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's contracted...
There's definitely some upside that we're not taking into account right now but we don't know how much.
I wouldn't expect it to be huge number.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't sound like that amount would be recouped in this calendar year given the process and the nuances of California provider contracting? You mean before the end of 2011? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
No I don't think so.
This is going to be more 2012 recoupments.
Our last question for today will be a follow-up question from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> On the bond -- on the buying back to converts versus the stock looks like the converts are trading at roughly $0.97 on the dollar.
Obviously the stock is where it is.
Can you sort of tell us how you guys view the relative detract in this whether you would want to buy the converts at a discount in par or you would prefer to buy the stock here and sort of how do you guys think about that internally? We look at it whichever purchase is going to get us the best ultimately the best use of our capital.
We have repurchased the convert before and we have repurchased stock.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Any sense for what you prefer today? Really it goes on a day-by-day basis what the relative prices are of the two.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
So you guys came up with $1.55 of earnings that updated number with Q2 and obviously we talked quite a bit about that number and the impact to California at the Investor Day.
Can you remind me when you guys came out with the updated $1.55 with second quarter were you guys already assuming the 6% cut in California or were you assuming something less at that time? No we were assuming the 6% cut.
Dr.
Molina there are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back to you.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Well I just want first of all to thank all the employees.
This has been a very challenging year from a rate standpoint and the team has pulled together and done a great job of managing our medical costs and at the same time holding down the admin costs.
We've managed to improve our status in terms of NCQA accreditation so I just want to thank everyone who's really pulled together to make this year-to-date successful.
I also want to remind everyone that we will be out in New York again for Investor Day in January.
So we look forward to seeing you there and that concludes our presentation.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded Thursday February 23 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Juan José Orellana VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you George.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2011.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including without limitation statements regarding our earnings per share guidance for 2012 expected 2012 rates opportunities relating to the migration of dual eligibles into managed care our enrollment expansion in Texas our premium revenues in Washington and certification of our Idaho Medicaid Management Information System.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of February 23 2012 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion today.
Let me begin by saying that 2011 was an outstanding year for Molina Healthcare.
Were it not for the noncash impairment charge that we took for the loss of our contract in Missouri we would have reported record earnings for both the fourth quarter and for all of 2011.
Even with the Missouri charge our cash flow from operations in 2011 was the best we have ever reported.
I'll talk more about Missouri in a minute but first I want to discuss what made 2011 such a good year and what that says about our company's future.
The list of our accomplishments for 2011 is long: We had record cash flows from operations; we lowered our medical care ratio by 60 basis points and increased our medical margin by nearly $125 million; we secured a major position in the Texas market; we reduced our fourth quarter medical care ratio in Florida by 15% over the fourth quarter of 2010; we grew our Medicare membership by over 25%; we grew our Age Blind and Disabled membership by over 50%; we achieved federal certification of our Medicaid Management Information System in Maine; and we positioned ourselves to participate in the dual eligible opportunity across many of our states.
Molina has submitted its notice of intent to apply to capitated fiscal alignment demonstration contracts for 2013 for the dual eligibles in the following states: California Florida Michigan New Mexico Ohio Texas Washington Wisconsin Virginia and Illinois.
Currently 3 of our largest health plans in California Ohio and Michigan are in states with large initiatives underway to transition the dual eligibles into managed care.
In California Molina Healthcare has submitted its response to the state's request for solutions to provide comprehensive care to dual eligible beneficiaries in the state.
This program will enroll these beneficiaries into health plans beginning in 2013 and continuing through 2015.
There are currently 1.2 million beneficiaries with both Medicaid and Medicare in California.
600 000 of them are in the 5 counties Molina serves: San Diego Riverside San Bernardino Los Angeles and Sacramento.
The state is going to begin the program in these areas which the state is expected to identify towards the end of March.
Currently Molina Healthcare it strategically positioned to serve this population in California with an already established Special Needs Plan that serves nearly 6 500 duals in the state.
In Ohio the state plans to release a revised draft proposal this month for its integrated care delivery system to meet the needs of the dual eligibles.
A request for applications is expected in April for implementation in January of 2013.
In Michigan the state began enrolling dual eligible beneficiaries in Medicaid Health Plans in December of last year.
Members in Special Needs Plans in Michigan are automatically enrolled for their Medicaid benefits with an opportunity to opt out.
In addition the Michigan Department of Community Health has been working under Dual Eligible Integrated Care Plan with a target submission date to CMS of April and a target implementation of January 2013.
On another front we are just a few days away from our expansion go live date of March 1 in Texas.
As a result over the next few weeks doctors and patients across multiple Texas service areas will see significant changes in how healthcare is delivered.
Many families and individuals will be selecting a Medicaid Health Plan for the very first time.
As we outlined at our Investor Day we anticipate that our enrollment in Texas will nearly double as a result of this expansion.
We are also well aware that associated with such large expansions are many challenges.
Since we were awarded the contract we have set up extra phone lines and hired additional staff to help with the influx of new members.
In addition the Texas Health and Human Services Commission and the Molina Healthcare staff in Texas have been hard at work to ensure the seamless transition of members and to minimize problems for our network providers.
I had the opportunity to visit the providers in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas last week and I came away very impressed with their commitment to the Medicaid population and their proactive approach in dealing with the upcoming change.
In Washington we successfully defended our position against stiff competition.
We have learned that Molina was tentatively awarded all existing service areas in 34 counties while adding one additional county.
The Washington contract will become effective July 2012 and provides managed care services for more than 700 000 Medicaid and basic health beneficiaries while adding 100 000 Age Blind and Disabled beneficiaries.
In the fiscal agent business Molina Medicaid Solutions was awarded full federal certification in Maine by the centers for Medicare and Medicaid services.
This certification allows the state to receive maximum federal funding for the system.
The state of Maine can now claim 75% federal reimbursement for ongoing operations retroactive to September 1 2010.
Since September 1 2010 the system in Maine has been processing approximately 1 million claims per month and paying nearly 3 000 providers each week.
As a result of not being awarded a new contract in Missouri our existing contract with the state will expire without renewal on June 30 2012.
Although we were very disappointed to learn about this outcome Molina Healthcare remains committed to serving the state of Missouri our providers and most importantly our members by approaching our work with a business-as-usual mindset to meet all of our obligations.
At this stage we are evaluating our options in the state.
We regard this outcome as a short-term issue and a trajectory of recently successful RFP results that include the Washington State Medicaid reprocurement the Texas CHIP world service area RFP and RFPs for the STAR and STAR+PLUS programs in our existing service areas in Texas as well as RFPs for the El Paso and Rio Grande service areas.
We expect to emerge from this recent challenge stronger and even better prepared to take full advantage of the opportunities our growing field offers.
The anticipated growth in our industry resulting from current and new opportunities confirms that we are in the right place at the right time.
As we expand our presence in new and existing programs and markets it's only natural to expect that we will draw increasing competition.
The increase in competition validates our long-term strategic imperative: emphasizing diversification so that the company is not overly reliant on any one specific contract.
Diversification has been a consistent theme for Molina Healthcare that we expect will continue to contribute to our sustained success.
We're excited for 2012 and the long-term future for the company.
Finally I'm pleased to announce that Garrey Carruthers a former governor of New Mexico was elected to serve as a Director.
Governor Carruthers will fill an existing class I Director vacancy and joins Molina Healthcare following a distinguished career in public service in government higher education and healthcare.
Currently Governor Carruthers serves as the Dean of the College of Business of New Mexico State University.
We welcome Governor Carruthers and look forward to his contributions.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As Mario pointed out this was a very good quarter and a very good year for the company.
While we reported a loss of $0.72 for the quarter and earnings of only $0.45 for the full year those results were severely impacted by the Missouri impairment charge.
Were it not for the noncash impairment charge we took from Missouri we would have reported diluted earnings per share of $0.62 for the quarter and $1.79 for the year.
Please note that the Q4 2011 noncash impairment charge does not impact the company's future cash flows profitability liquidity or compliance with debt covenants in our credit facility.
We also had some other items that impacted our fourth quarter results.
Our New Mexico health plan entered into a contract amendment that more closely aligned the calculation of revenue within methodology adopted under the Affordable Care Act.
The contract amendment changed the calculation of the amount of revenue that we may recognize relative to medical costs.
This change added about $0.21 to EPS for the fourth quarter.
About $0.07 of that amount related to 2010 while the remaining $0.14 related to 2011.
We agreed to settle an arbitration matter in Florida during the fourth quarter and also incurred some costs related to provider contract terminations.
All in these items reduced fourth quarter earnings per diluted share by about $0.10.
Because we have a lot of unusual puts and takes in the quarter we have added a table at the front of our earnings release to summarize items that you may wish to remove from our reported results to better understand our ongoing operations.
In summary the impairment charge reduced our EPS for the year and quarter by $1.34.
The arbitration and provider termination costs reduced EPS for the year and the quarter by $0.10 and the New Mexico contract amendment increased EPS for the quarter by $0.21.
Regarding New Mexico I want to emphasize that most of the $0.21 benefit relates to the first 3 quarters of 2011.
Only $0.07 of that $0.21 benefit relates to 2010.
To reiterate our fourth quarter represented a strong conclusion to a strong year.
Absent all of the items I discussed our earnings per diluted share would have been $0.51 for the quarter and $1.82 for the year.
Annual premium revenues grew by 15% over 2010 to $4.6 billion and fourth quarter premium revenues grew 20% over the fourth quarter of 2010 to $1.3 billion.
The revenue increase is primarily due to our increased enrollment among our Age Blind and Disabled population as well as Medicare population which have higher premiums and resulted in a higher premium revenue per member per month.
Premium rate increases remain anemic and we expect them to be flat to down throughout the year.
Yesterday the Supreme Court sent the California Medicaid reimbursement case back to the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals.
As you may recall the 9th Circuit Court had blocked the Medicaid reductions from taking effect.
This action is likely to postpone any immediate resolution and further complicates the state's budget battle.
We continue to reserve as if the rate cut will take effect.
Please refer back to our January Investor Day presentation where we detailed our expectations for state-by-state premium changes.
At the end of the year our enrollments stood at 1.7 million members.
Enrollment was up across the majority of our health plans on a sequential basis with the bulk of the enrollment gains coming from Texas where the company began serving ABD members in the first quarter and in California where the company began serving new ABD members in the third quarter.
Our Medicare enrollment continues to grow steadily and topped 31 000 members for the year.
As a reminder nearly 80% of our Medicare enrollment is in our dual eligible Special Needs Plan.
For all of 2011 we reduced our medical care ratio to 83.9% compared to 84.5% in 2010.
Our medical margin increased by 20% or almost $125 million year-over-year.
The flu had little impact on our fourth quarter results and it is still too early to comment on the flu impact during the first quarter of 2012.
The performance of Molina Medicaid Solutions improved between the third and fourth quarters of 2011 with operating income increasing by over $6 million.
General and administrative expenses grew to 9.6% of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with 9.3% of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This increase is due to the settlement of an acquisition-related arbitration matter at our Florida health plan higher variable compensation and employee health care costs and investment and administrative and infrastructure in anticipation of the opportunities in Texas and among our dual eligible population.
EBITDA for the first -- for the full year of 2011 was $155 million including the $65 million noncash impairment charge which is a decrease of 7% compared to $166 million in 2010.
So without the impairment charge EBITDA would have been approximately $219 million for the full fiscal year.
Operating cash flow for 2011 increased by $64 million to $225 million compared with $161 million for the same period of 2010.
As of December 31 2011 the company had cash and investments of approximately $893 million.
The parent company had free cash and investments of approximately $24 million.
Days and claims payable in the fourth quarter were 40 days which was up 1 day on a sequential basis.
The company is revising its 2011 -- 2012 EPS guidance discussed at our Investor Day on January 26 2012 from $1.80 EPS to $1.75 EPS.
The primary factor influencing this change was the loss of the Missouri contract which is now set to expire without renewal on June 30 2012.
A complete discussion of our assumptions and risk factors associated with our guidance can be found in our Investor Day presentation available at our website.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus first on Texas and just wanted to see the trajectory as you look into 2012 so sort of starting from the call it 93% loss ratios on 2011 you're guiding for something closer to 90% in 2012.
So what gets you comfortable that the base business is going to get better in 2012 relative to all the new membership coming on that presumably will be at a higher loss ratio than 90%? Carl it's John.
There are a number of moving pieces in Texas but we were able to make what we believe are some improvements in the fourth quarter largely because some of the care requirements -- the sum of [ph] care requirements that began to move away on the population that came in in the Jefferson Service Area.
The mix that's shifting a little bit for -- a little bit more towards the STAR membership.
We also don't have the same profit sharing that we had in 2011.
And we think that we have done a pretty good job of making sure that we're staffed up and prepared for the influx of membership.
Now having said all of that we are expecting that across the entirety of the state the medical care ratio will be 90% for the entire year.
We're also adding pharmacy and inpatient responsibility and we generally tend to do pretty well on the pharmacy piece.
So while 90% is nothing to write home about we think that we have put some mechanisms in place to help with the utilization and we've done some nice work on recontracting some of the challenging hospital contracts.
Long answer but that's what we said in January and we're sticking to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separate question.
What was the accrual in California for the retroactive rate cut relative to the I believe it was $7.5 million in the third quarter? Joe you got that? Yes.
Carl it's Joe.
The $7.5 million basically we found out I think in November that that increase we'd expect to have netted down to maybe 6%.
It's really 3.5%.
So essentially there was no incremental accrual in the fourth quarter.
And in effect what we had accrued at the end of the third quarter was adequate to take us through the year.
And Carl let me just add despite the recent court decision we are still accruing as though the rate is going to be decreased.
You may recall Carl at Investor Day we talked about a roughly 3.5% rate cut [indiscernible] in December 1 2011.
So that's what we're talking about there.
Our next question comes from Charles Boorady with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the California question for a second because in the last Q and I think what we talked about last was that the 10% rate cut if it were to take effect would have a 6% negative impact on your revenues.
Are you now saying that that same 10% cut would have only a 3% 3.5% negative impact on your revenue? Or am I misunderstanding what you just said? Charles the error that we made previously was we applied that 10% to all provider categories and it turns out that the states did not apply it to all provider types and all provider services.
So we had overestimated the impacts previously.
We think we've got it estimated correctly now and I think it's about a 3.5% hit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
To revenue or -- okay and the 3.5% revenue hit when you consider everything that gets passed through versus what hit year bottom line you're saying is about a $7.5 million now for 6 months rather than $7.5 million for a quarter? Yes $7.5 million for 6 months that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then do you have any sense for -- I've read a lot about the Supreme Court decision and it sounds like both sides are claiming victory.
I mean what's your read on the upshot of the Supreme Court decision today? Does it make more likely or less likely that a 10% cut will ultimately happen? Charles it's Mario.
I really don't know.
I mean we're just going to have to see how this plays out.
I think that one of the things the court said was that circumstances have changed and that's one of the reasons they sent it back.
So it's not a victory for the state or for the providers.
They want further discussion and we'll just have to see how it plays out.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay and then just finally on Missouri in light of your exit there what's the amount of excess reserves that you have that you think might come back into earnings once you're fully out of that state? Charles we don't have that much in terms of excess reserves that are material.
We always keep an adequate amount for adverse deviation in terms of what we reserve but we also have excess statutory capital.
And if you're talking about the excess debt cap it's probably $25 million or $30 million which we can -- we'll be able to deploy for other things.
That's not a P&amp;L impact though.
Research Division</strong> So they will -- okay so there will be no P&amp;L impact from any excess statutory capital.
Correct.
So Charles let me express it this way.
We do not ever intentionally carry excess reserves in our liability.
So the reserve that we recorded at 12/31 is our best estimate of that reserve.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
You said that once you're out of there if you discover that there was excess does that just come back into the P&amp;L in the form of earnings or...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at this point you don't think that's going to be material is that what you're implying? That's correct it will not be material.
Our next question comes from Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question maybe just sticking on Missouri.
Maybe if you could just talk about what you thought the key reasons were on why you weren't awarded another contract there.
Scott this is Mario.
We haven't had a chance yet to examine the scoring and so it would be premature for us to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just a separate question on just the provider termination costs that you cited in the 4Q report.
Maybe if you could just elaborate a bit on that in terms of which markets did those provider terms relate to and how many providers were actually terminated from the network? This is Joe speaking.
It's 2 or 3 providers spread across 2 or 3 states for a total impact of maybe $2 million $2.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question just on the RFS out in California and the Legislative Analyst's Office recently put out a report and supporting moving forward with the pilot but sort of cautioning against moving too quickly on the state-wide expansion.
And just sort of interested in sort of how much pull does that outfit have in terms of influencing the legislature and in sort of the way things stand in terms of timing of a pilot versus a broader state-wide expansion? This is Mario.
We disagree with the Legislative Analyst's report for 3 reasons.
First many states across the country are going forward with similar programs and there's been a lot of research done on this so I don't think that a pilot is necessary.
Second this is really a federal initiative.
The federal government wants to move the dual eligible beneficiaries into managed care programs that combine the funding for both to provide better coordinated care.
And finally I think it's unfair to the beneficiaries themselves to withhold coordinated care programs that can better serve their needs and make sure that they're getting the benefits that they're entitled to.
So for all those reasons we disagree with the Legislative Analyst's Office and we side with the Governor on this.
And I would just add one other thing and that is we just talked about the difficulty California has had in cutting the provider rates.
Their budget's not getting any better and this will save money.
Our next question comes from Josh Raskin with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just -- first question I just want to make sure I understood the New Mexico change in revenues.
What exactly does that mean that you've changed the recognition to be more in line with PPACA as it relates to cost? I guess I'm just not sure exactly what you were looking at there.
It's Joe speaking.
To distill a lot of detail essentially the contract amendment modifies the definition of revenue in effect modifies the denominator and the calculation of medical costs over revenue.
It also changed the minimum percentage to 85% over the life of the contract.
So it -- those 2 the change in definition of revenue and the assignment of an 85% minimum over the life of contract triggered the accounting recognitions.
Research Division</strong> So Joe were you accruing contra revenue that no longer gets accrued? Is that why the revenues went out? That is correct that is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Got you makes sense now.
And then I guess as it relates to California and their request for solutions what -- I think it's due this week.
What sort of recommendations are you providing the state? What do you think would be most helpful for California if they manage the duals? Josh it's Terry.
I think as we've shared with you we have a care model that we believe if we can bring in and have a single funding stream and be given the opportunity to coordinate all aspects of care including the long-term support services the long-term care residents et cetera that we will be able to improve the quality of the outcomes coordinate all of the services reduce the fragmentation and ultimately bring about reduced cost and a better outcome.
And simply we've been doing this now for a number of years in our Special Needs Plan where we're serving the duals except for that last piece which is covered by Medicaid in terms of long-term care.
So we've got the experience with the Special Needs Plans and we're going to build on that and pick up this long-term services portion which includes a lot of social and nonmedical needs being met for these patients.
So we submitted the care model and we're looking forward to implementing it in all of our markets if the state so desires.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I'm sorry just one last one if I could sneak it in.
Just the transition from capitation of fee-for-service in Michigan and Washington the cost ticked up there because you're moving I guess from cap to fee-for-service.
Is that intentional or what -- and if so why would you want to do that? It's Joe speaking.
And this is the transition that happened in Washington effective 12/31/2010 and then in Michigan during the course of the year.
Our general feeling is that we favor arrangements that are more fee-for-service based because it helps in encouraging providers to send in their account or [ph] data.
We collect that information as we pay claims which is helpful from a patient care perspective and a rate setting perspective with the state.
I'd say for -- in most circumstances those agreements that change was voluntary.
I can't speak to the physicians on the other end but again we favor -- well we do capitate the arrangements and we're okay with it when necessary.
We do like the greater visibility into patient care than a fee-for-service arrangement can give us.
This is Mario.
I also think that it's ironic given all the discussion in Washington about accountable care organizations we increasingly see the providers moving away from capitation and back towards fee-for-service payments.
Research Division</strong> You like it more -- you're saying just because of the claims visibility you're actually getting the claims.
It doesn't sound like it's necessarily financially more or less attractive one way or the other? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Ken Lavine with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on your Washington state business now that it looks like you have some enhanced clarity compared to the January Investor Day on how the membership may shake out there.
Just want to get your updated thoughts on what the MLR should look like here in 2012.
I think your Investor Day it showed something like an 80% 86% target for '12 which is a pretty sharp ramp versus 2011 and particularly one where you exited 2011 from.
So just kind of looking for a little better clarity with what the moving parts are there? And then this 86%...
The thing that's driving that is primarily the addition of the ABD members which we would anticipate would come in at a higher MCR out the gate just because you've got pent-up demand.
So we also think that there may be some shift in mix as folks who aren't heavy utilizers on the TANF side may switch plans or may not re-enroll.
And then you got pressure on the premiums.
Washington does have a pretty significant budget deficit still.
And there's pressure on the rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the post-RFP post the new contract that's a second half event and normally would really impact the third and fourth quarters.
So with the MLRs for that -- for those quarters be maybe closer to 90% in Washington? I think -- this is Joe speaking.
I think they will certainly be higher I know that will go as high as 90%.
But we don't give quarterly guidance but I think it's fair to say we've modeled higher MCRs in the second half of the year for Washington yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how should we think about any sort of diminished SG&amp;A leverage if any as a result of kind of some of the foregone membership here in Washington? I think you had talked at one of your Investor Days a few years ago about the incremental earnings accretion from Ohio from some membership that you picked up from a planned exit from a competitor exit.
And I think you have cited something like 2% incremental administrative expense.
Is that in the ballpark for I guess kind of the reversed sort of leverage here? I think you're going to see sort of a trade-out Ken.
As we move from a primarily TANF population we're going to lose some membership.
We'll pick it up as we get the ABD but they have higher needs both on the medical but also the administrative.
So we're not looking at decreases in staff even though the absolute number of patients is going to go down.
So I think it sort of gets washed out.
Our next question comes from Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the California dual opportunity.
I'm seeing that there is such a variance in the proposals.
I was wondering if you could give us some insight on who you think will ultimately be making that decision if it's going to be collaborative or coming from one part of the state government versus another? And then what the timing is that you're looking for the final word on how the rollout will happen? This is Mario.
In terms of when we will get the final word out I would imagine it will come with the state budget when that gets resolved.
In terms of who's going to drive this I think a lot is going to be driven by the governor and I think that there are -- there is support and a legislature as well for this expansion.
I think that people are increasingly realizing that coordinated care is much better for this dual eligible population than the current fragmented fee-for-service system.
And we're seeing it not just in California not just in Sacramento but we're seeing that in the statehouses across the country.
This is a growing trend and we expect it to continue and perhaps even accelerate over 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on some of the cost comments that were made in the press release one of them mentioned utilization down 2%.
So I was just wondering if you could comment if that's across all markets or any geography in particular and if there's any change in the trend for birthrates or flu cost? It's Joe speaking.
What we've seen in the utilization has been pretty generalized.
It has been I'd say very generalized.
Births.
First we continue to show a drop in birth income which would suggest some drop in birthrates.
And flu I don't think we have enough information to talk anything about.
We don't see a whole lot of it as normal [ph].
Unfortunately due to time constraints we have time for only one more question.
Our last question comes from Melissa McGinnis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess sticking with the California duals.
If in the event that the state sort of puts the 10 county expansion on hold and we only get the 4 county expansion via the RFS what's your understanding of how the state is maybe deciding which 4 counties are the best places to pilot this program? That's a really good question.
This is Mario.
It's hard to know.
I think it's going to depend a lot on the responses they get to the RFS.
They have encouraged the local initiatives and the commercial plans to cooperate and we have certainly done that in the Inland Empire and in San Diego and in concert with L.A.
Care and HealthNet in Los Angeles County.
And Los Angeles County is the largest county so you might look for it to start there.
But one of the other large regions in California is the Inland Empire.
So I think those things are going to drive this.
The other thing to think about is do they want to diversify the model? Do they want to do a 2 plan model and for example maybe a geographic managed care model like San Diego County.
We just going to have to wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as all of us think through the revenue opportunity and ultimately the earnings opportunity given your experience with Medicare offerings and the margins we can usually see on the Medicare side of the business and your experience in California and then maybe thinking through the incremental G&amp;A benefit you get from end-market expansions what do you think incremental margins on a dual contract can really look like for a health plan? Are we thinking more like Medicaid margins? Maybe a blend of -- I mean Medicaid margins? More a blend of Medicare and Medicaid? How are you thinking about that? I think initially -- this is John.
At least for the first year it's probably going to be much closer to a Medicaid-type margin.
And the reason I say that is the big additional piece as Terry points out are the Personal Care Services the Personal Attendant Services which really aren't even medical in nature but they are an important and expensive piece of the care continuum.
And most of the states are going to try and have very long runways for continuity of care.
So at least initially there is going to be not a lot we are going to be able to influence on that piece but it will come over time as we are able to keep those patients out of the nursing homes and out of the hospital.
But I would not suspect that we're going to get Medicare-type of margins initially.
Dr.
Molina I'll turn the call back to you.
Well I just want to say thank you to all the employees.
We saw marked improvements in operations both on the health plan side and on the Molina Medicaid Solutions part of the business this year.
And it was an outstanding year blemished unfortunately by the Missouri contract loss which we had to take in 2011 even though the contract loss won't actually take place until 2012.
So my thanks to all my fellow employees and we will see you at the next earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Monday April 30 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Juan José Orellana Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Francisco.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2012.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
Participating for Molina today will be Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities litigation Reform Act including statements regarding our Ohio contract appeal our Texas and California operations our expansion opportunities with regards to dual eligible integration programs and our earnings per share guidance for 2012.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our form 10-K annual report for fiscal year 2011 our form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of April 30 2012 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining our conference call today.
We are pleased that our financial results for the first quarter of 2012 met our expectations.
In addition we're excited about the progress being made with the integration of dual eligible beneficiaries into programs across the country.
We believe that our participation in such managed care growth opportunities will contribute to the long-term growth prospects for our company.
Before we get further into discussing the quarter and the opportunities ahead of us I would like to take a moment to talk about our Ohio Medicaid contract.
Recently the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services notified our Ohio health plan that it had not been selected for a contract under the recent Ohio Medicaid managed care Request For Applications or RFA.
As a result of not being selected our existing contract with the state will expire without renewal on December 31 2012.
However since the contract remains in place until the end of this year it will not have a negative impact on our full year 2012 estimates of $1.75 per share which we reaffirmed today.
Although we're disappointed with this outcome Molina Healthcare remains committed to serving the state of Ohio our providers and most importantly our members.
Molina has pursued its rights of appeal and has filed as have 4 other health plans a formal protest with the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services.
Our protest challenges the scoring of Molina's submission pursuant to the RFA and identifies scoring errors that if corrected could alter the previously announced RFA results.
While the exact timing of a potential resolution to our protest remains uncertain we believe that a ruling should occur relatively soon given the implementation timelines and readiness requirements of the program.
Now let's get back to our first quarter results.
Earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $0.39 per share or $18 million in net income.
Our established health plans continue to perform well and as we are even more strongly engaged in key states such as Texas and California.
Revenues at our Texas plan more than doubled when compared to the first quarter 2011 adding nearly $1 billion in new annualized revenues and 125 000 new members as part of the managed care expansion which went into effect March 1 of this year.
As a reminder late last year we won new contracts to administer the STAR and STAR+ programs in the El Paso and Rio Grande Valley service areas as well as the STAR and CHIP programs in the Dallas service area.
At the end of the first quarter our Texas health plan became Molina's third-largest health plan in terms of both the revenue and enrollment.
In addition our preliminary enrollment data for the month of April suggest that Texas health plan could become our second largest plan in the not-too-distant future.
In California our health plan revenues grew at about 20% year-over-year with the addition of over 23 000 new ABD lives as the result of the transition of seniors and persons with disabilities or SPDs as we call them in California into managed care.
We're very excited about our participation in this program.
It solidifies our current base as well as builds on our experience in arranging for healthcare services for patients with more complex healthcare needs.
As we have highlighted in the past scale and experience with more complex patients are key competencies that strongly position Molina to capitalize on one of the largest growth opportunities for Managed Care: The integration of the dual eligible beneficiaries into managed care.
The value of participating in the California Medicaid program our growing experience with ABD enrollment and the inclusion of duals into managed care are strategic imperatives that we have been stressing with the investor community for quite some time.
But it was not until earlier this month that all of these related strategic priorities converged.
All of our efforts came to fruition when the California Department of Health Care Services announced its initial selection of the first 4 counties and the health plans which will participate in the state's dual eligible care coordination demonstration project.
I'm pleased to report that Molina was selected to participate as an integrated health plan for its duals demonstration project in San Diego County where approximately 75 000 dual eligible beneficiaries reside.
In addition Molina will also participate in the duals demonstration project for Los Angeles County as a subcontracted health plan.
Nearly 374 000 dual eligible beneficiaries reside in Los Angeles County.
Enrollment across the 4 selected counties is scheduled to begin in January of 2013.
A key feature of the California dual eligible proposal is that the initial participation in the program is restricted to health plans that currently participate in the state's Medicaid program.
This approach is very similar to that implemented in the managed care transition for California's SPD members where the state chose to work with health plans that have existing contracts with the state for the Medicaid program.
Next the state will be submitting its proposal to CMS for approval in May and a response from CMS is expected in the month of June.
While California leads the nation's efforts to integrate duals into Managed Care other states are rapidly following.
In Texas the state released earlier this month its initial proposal to begin moving its dual eligible beneficiaries into managed care.
The Texas Health and Human Services Commission estimates that there are approximately 214 000 dual eligible beneficiaries that will be included in the demonstration project.
Similar to California participation in the Texas duals demonstration will be initially limited to health plans that have both a STAR+ agreement with the state and a Medicare Advantage Special Needs Plan agreement with CMS.
As of March 31 Molina Healthcare Texas served approximately 109 000 STAR+ members making us the second largest STAR+ contractor in the state of Texas.
Our enrollment in our SNP product in Texas has also grown steadily.
We believe our scale and experience coordinating benefits for the STAR+ membership as well as our dedicated focus on Special Needs Plans will provide a strong foundation for the proposed demonstration in Texas.
Texas is expected to submit its application to CMS at the end of May and enrollment is currently scheduled to begin in January of 2014.
Last week the state of Ohio released its Request for Applications or RFA for the Ohio Integrated Care Delivery System or ICDS which comprehensively manages Medicare and Medicaid benefits for the dual eligible beneficiaries in that state.
The ICDS program will be implemented in select regions across the state starting in January of 2013 and covers nearly 115 000 beneficiaries.
In this pilot the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services will select health plans for each of the 7 regions in the state through a competitive application process that will be due on May 25.
Notification of scoring results is tentatively scheduled for June 18.
It is important to mention that the Ohio dual eligible opportunity is not restricted to health plans holding Ohio Medicaid contracts.
Therefore regardless of the outcome of our outstanding protests related to Ohio's Medicaid contract award Molina Healthcare would not be excluded as an eligible applicant for the Ohio ICDS.
Instead the application requirement as outlined in the RFA requires that if the applicant does not offer Medicaid Managed Care services in the state then it must currently serve at least 100 000 lives across all lines of business in all states.
The requirements also identify that an applicant must currently maintain a CMS-approved Medicare Advantage plan.
As evidenced by the growth in dual eligible opportunities in our field and the proposed expansion of Medicaid in the coming years federal and state governments now recognize that individuals receiving care in a -- on a fee-for-service basis through government programs are ideal candidates for Managed Care.
As these opportunities in the government healthcare sector continue to grow increasingly attractive we can expect the competition in our industry will intensify.
Our recent challenges with the contract award in Ohio and Missouri are byproducts of a highly competitive industry.
On a level playing field we welcome the competition.
The dual eligible growth opportunity is an attractive one.
However serving the healthcare needs of these complex patients is not for every company and it takes more than just experience with Medicare to be successful.
We believe we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of this growth opportunity.
Our operation of dual eligible Special Need Plans since 2006 our participation in the acclaimed Washington Medicaid Integration Partnership for the ABDs since 2005 and our growing understanding of long-term care with the Texas STAR+ program have honed our skills in serving complex patients.
Our experience with these patients combined with our 32-year history of arranging for the healthcare needs of low-income Medicaid patients makes the expansion of Managed Care to the dual eligible beneficiaries a natural extension of our business.
In summary despite the issues associated with the Ohio contract awards which we are pursuing in our appeal this is a good first quarter operationally and a strong start to 2012 for Molina Healthcare.
The performance at our established health plans was excellent and our recent wins in California Texas and Washington combined with the near-term activity surrounding the dual eligible population continue to strengthen our growth profile.
As always we remain focused on diversification among our 3 lines of business: Health plans our clinics and our fiscal agents.
Not only does diversification drive growth it also helps mitigate risk with regard to our revenue stream.
Our industry is one that is witnessing a considerable amount of growth.
While identifying growth opportunities is central to our business we remain equally committed to operating our core business.
We undoubtedly have more work to do but we're excited about 2012 and remain confident as ever in the future potential of Molina Healthcare.
I would now like to turn the call over to John our CFO to discuss our first quarter financial results in more detail.
Thank you Mario.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our financial performance this quarter provides a good start towards achieving our 2012 guidance.
As Mario pointed out improved premium revenues and enrollment were the hallmarks of the quarter.
Profitability metrics such as earnings per share operating income and more importantly EBITDA all experienced modest year-over-year improvements despite a continued weak premium rate environment and higher costs associated with assimilating new populations.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.39 up 3% from a year ago while net income increased to $18 million or 4% over the previous years.
EBITDA also increased by nearly 5% over the first quarter of 2011.
Higher margin at the company's Molina Medicaid Solutions segment and higher revenues in the health plan segment contributed to these improvements.
At the end of the quarter our enrollment stood at 1.8 million members with the bulk of the sequential enrollment gains coming from Texas where the company began serving new STAR and STAR+ members in the Dallas El Paso and Rio Grande Valley service areas effective March 1.
Our Medicare plans grew by 7 100 or approximately 29% year-over-year.
As a reminder nearly 80% of our Medicare enrollment is in our Special Needs Plan.
Marketing and outreach to this population is particularly challenging as potential enrollees must be contacted one at a time and many of them often have low education and literacy levels.
Despite these challenges we continued to consistently increase our SNP enrollment while gaining important experience in caring for this population.
Consolidated premium revenue grew 23% to $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period last year due to a 7% increase in membership and a 15% increase in per-member per-month revenue due to mix shift.
As Mario mentioned the California plan added approximately 23 000 new ABD members since the first quarter of 2011 with the majority of these members joining in the plan in the last 9 months.
Texas on the other hand added approximately 58 000 ABD members since the first quarter of 2011 with the majority of these new members joining the plan in March 2012.
ABD members have higher per-member per-month premium revenues.
The shift in our member mix is evident by the fact that 15% of the company's current enrollment is comprised of ABD members and Medicare members compared with just 11% of membership a year ago.
Our consolidated medical care ratio increased to 85.2% in the 3 months ended March 31 2012 compared with 84.5% in the same period last year.
While the ABD members we have added in California and Texas have come with higher premiums medical care costs are also higher for these members.
Additionally rate decreases of approximately 2% in Ohio effective January 1 2012 and approximately 3% in California effective July 1 2011 also contributed to a year-over-year increase in the medical care ratio.
Many of our legacy health plans were able to achieve a higher medical margin in this quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Despite the shift in member mix in Texas the medical care ratio at our Texas health plan actually decreased both year-over-year and sequentially to 90.8%.
This is consistent with the expectations for Texas that we outlined at our Investor Day which assumed that the performance of our existing book of business would improve with longer tenure.
Also as we expected the higher medical costs associated with new populations will be partially offset by rate increases associated with the health plans assumptions of in-patient and pharmacy risk for all existing populations.
As a reminder our guidance assumes a medical care ratio for the Texas health plan at 90% for all of 2012.
I want to remind everyone however that we've only had one month of experience in the new Texas regions and with the new pharmacy and in-patient benefits.
In estimating expenses and setting claims reserves for the first quarter we had to rely heavily upon historical data provided by the state's Medicaid agency in place of our own claims payment experience which is almost nonexistent for the new regions and benefits.
Performance at our MMS subsidiary improved in the first quarter due to the achievement of systems certification in Maine that had previously delayed revenue recognition more effective cost controls progress towards system stabilization in Idaho and Maine and lower purchase price amortization.
General and administrative expenses for the quarter increased to 8.8% of total revenue compared with 8.4% of total revenue for the same quarter last year.
The company incurred additional expenses in the first quarter of this year due to investment in administrative infrastructure in anticipation of opportunities in Texas and amongst the dual eligible population.
Although there has been considerable amount of Medicaid RFP activity in the last 12 to 18 months we remain very selective in our participation and mindful in the use of our resources.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $51 million for the first quarter of 2012 nearly 3x net income.
The company had cash and investments of about $930 million and the parent company had cash and investments of $40 million.
Days and claims payable increased sequentially to 44 days.
The increase was primarily driven by the establishment of higher reserves in connection with our Texas expansion which was effective March 1.
I want everyone to remember though that we calculate our days and claims payable on a rolling 12-month basis.
That means that cost -- claims cost per day will continue to grow each month over the next 11 months as incremental medical costs associated with the Texas expansion are rolled into the calculation.
Our claims payable liability however will likely remain the same or even shrink as the payment of claims begins to offset the increase that we have seen in our claims reserves this quarter.
As a result the numerator in our DCP calculation our claims liability will be more or less constant while the divisor claims cost per day rises over the next 11 months.
Therefore the expected result would be a decrease in our DCP over the next 11 months all else being equal.
The distortion of our DCP resulting from a substantial increase in membership in March illustrates one of the many weaknesses of the DCP calculation that we've spoken of in the past.
We've always believed that a better measure of the adequacy of our claims reserves is to look back to the claims liabilities that we have previously reported with the benefit of the hindsight we gained as we pay out claims over time.
The roll-forward table we presented at the end of today's earnings release provides a good example.
As you can see that table shows favorable development of our claims reserves was almost $37 million for the first quarter.
The comparable number from last year was $44 million.
Unfavorable prior-period development in Missouri of nearly $5 million this quarter was the main reason for the decrease in prior-period development quarter-over-quarter.
We present this claims liability roll-forward table every quarter and if you go back and review our prior reports you will see that we've had a consistent record of maintaining adequate reserves.
I will be talking more about this on future calls.
In summary we are pleased with the results of the first quarter and confident about our EPS guidance of $1.75 for the year ended December 31 2012.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I hate to do it but I want to start in Ohio.
I calculate the MLR somewhere just under 87.5 excluding premium taxes.
So that's about almost 200 basis points above your overall again excluding premium taxes.
So is it fair to assume that Ohio was less profitable than your overall book of business in terms of a percentage margin? Or are you expecting sort of improvements in that MLR as the year goes by and you fully anniversary the Rx? Josh this is John.
We don't talk about profitability on a state-by-state basis.
Also with the -- removing the premium tax and then adding the pharmacy benefit in it just gets kind of crazy.
At this point as Mario said the potential loss of the Ohio contract is not going to impact 2012 guidance.
We haven't made 2013 guidance so we don't want to speculate.
And frankly we'd rather be hopeful that we're going to retrain that contract.
Research Division</strong> I guess John -- I certainly appreciate that but I guess we're talking about sort of a one-off situation here where you're previously largest state could be disappearing.
I think it's pretty important to figure out the impact that that could have.
So at some point during the year do you plan on quantifying that? Is that post-finding out about your appeal? Yes.
We'd like to wait and see what happens with the appeal Josh.
Although you're correct to point out the difference in the cost and part of that has to do with the implementation of the pharmacy benefits.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
I didn't know if that was normalized for the year or that just got added in October.
Let's move on I guess -- I'm sorry I don't want to take waste time with that.
The cash flow I think you mentioned in the press release there were some timing-related issues.
So I'm just curious is there a quantification of how much benefit you saw from I would guess early payments from government partners? Josh it's Joe speaking.
If you look at the cash flow statement you can see actually that deferred revenue was less of a source of cash this time out than a quarter ago.
First quarter of 2011 Ohio paid us early.
That didn't happen this year.
So if you want to look at other than net income and amortization depreciation the big factor is driving cash flow this year in a favorable sense for the increase in claims payable offset by less deferred revenue and also an increase in receivables tied to what's happening in California where California has delayed has essentially slipped via move-back their payment of premiums 1 month on a sliding basis.
Research Division</strong> And Joe that $44.5 million that -- is that a fair number to use? I mean I think there's usually a lot of moving parts in there.
So I'm trying to figure out next quarter when it reverses how much of that -- how much of April was paid in March? I would think that that -- generally somebody always pays a day early.
So I think it could carry forward that $44.5 million.
I wouldn't necessarily expect it to all reverse.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm sorry last question on the...
Somebody will always pay a little bit early.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And John I apologize last question.
Did you mention a slight unfavorable development in Missouri? And I was just curious what that was related to if there's any expectation of that continuing? Josh slight it was $5 million.
Part of that was due to one of our members had quintuplets I believe late last year and we are still paying for those costs ongoing this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question on Ohio.
You mentioned the medical care margin decreased and part of that was because of the higher loss ratio the pharmacy carve-in.
But if we look at dollar profits is the dollar profitability of Ohio up or down year-over-year? Joe do you know? Charles I'd have to check that.
I know that obviously the MCR is up 180 basis points for the pharmacy and then they took a 2% premium cut January 1.
We'd have to just do the math on the back where we present our medical margins.
Honestly I don't have that number handy but I think you can work it from the table in the back of the ER.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The pharmacy carve-in.
Was that net additive to the dollar profitability or was that a neutral? It's net additive.
Again it's generating a -- it's -- I think it's generating an MCR in the high 80s so it's net additive.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then at your Investor Day you gave a really helpful slide with the excess -- I think it was the capital by state.
Ohio looked like it had a decent amount of excess capital.
Does that picture look pretty consistent today with where it was at your Investor Day? And how should we think about that capital in the event of hypothetically you're out of Ohio next year.
Is that all excess cash that can be dividend in directly to the parent in January of 2013? We've got about -- at March 31 we've got about $120 million of total capital in Ohio.
That's everything that's not just excess.
About $120 million of total $80 million of excess.
In the hypothetical situation that we were to exit Ohio which obviously means that the failure of our appeal and the inability to get a dual eligible contract there anything like that we would start withdrawing that money I think in the first half of 2012 not all of it but -- I mean 2013.
Not all of it but we'd start that process.
That's a lot of hypotheticals there though.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No but I appreciate that.
And then Texas final question just Texas in the first quarter about how much of your expenses there were due to startup costs? And of course what would the quarter have looked like without the new Texas RFP had that never occurred? If you wanted to look at -- it's Joe speaking if you want to look at Texas costs and admin-related costs that we incurred without any related revenue that ran about $2 million for the quarter.
There's obviously additional costs at the parent and that's a little bit harder to nail down but if you want to drop something in your model I'd figure another $0.5 million to $1 million at the parent.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And it's...
It's somewhere between about $2 million and $3 million total.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just to make sure I understand the days claims payable explanation correctly we think about new lives coming in.
And isn't it right that the new revenues come in well before expenses are actually paid for? So should -- is there a case to be made for an increasing days claims payable with growing enrollment?  Or are you paying providers so quickly that that doesn't actually happen? Charles the enrollment has come in now.
The large enrollment growth in Texas is largely over.
And that's where we saw the run-up in the DCPs.
There will be slight increases throughout the year but nothing like what we had in March.
So exactly what you talked about is going to happen.
We had to build up an enrollment.
Now as we start paying the claims and getting a better track record as we describe in the script the denominator will go up the numerator will go down slightly.
Research Division</strong> I got it I got it.
So you're referring to the other end of that curve.
Okay very clear.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> On the Los Angeles dual announcement I'd be interested if you have a way of thinking at this point about how much of the enrollment HealthNet's likely to get in Los Angeles?  I mean how many duals will stay fee-for-service versus how many HealthNet will pick up?  And then how you think about what percent of that will that get subcontracted out to you.
This is Mario.
It's a little bit difficult to say.
We have a contract with HealthNet that specifies a certain percentage of the market share will be defaulted to us.
And we expect it to be along the lines that the contract has used in the past.
The problem however is we don't know what the duals enrollment will look like because it is an opt-out.
So we don't know what percentage of patients will opt out and we're just going to have to wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then follow-up question on California if you could just give us an update on where the legislature is in terms of the trailer bill that would extend from 4 counties to 10? That's a really good question.
I don't know.
We don't have the May revise of the budget yet.
But I would expect that the budget is probably going to come in in worse shape than we thought that revenues are going to be weaker than anticipated and we'll put more pressure on the state to try to save money.
One of the biggest costs the state of California has is the Medicaid program and the biggest component they can do something about are the duals.
I mean they represent 15% of the patients and 40% of the costs.
So I would expect that the state would have a good reason to accelerate the move of the duals into managed care.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to continue the line of questioning on the duals a bit here.
And I'm wondering just as this opportunity continues to evolve if we can start to get some more details not just on California but other places well.
But let's start with California for now.
What rate will Molina be paid when this gets implemented? And then secondly how will Molina operationally staff up to meet what will likely be a sizable outreach effort if you will on potentially thousands of chronically ill people? Those are the 2 things I want you to talk about.
And so Tom let me take -- this is John.
Let me take the first part of your question and I'll let Terry handle the second part.
Frankly we don't know what the rates are going to be because we don't know the full expanse of the benefits that the state's looking to put in nor how it's going to be coordinated with the Medicare piece.
So at this point it would just be a conjecture.
And as you know we don't like to do that.
And this is Terry to add a comment on the staffing.
We have a model of care that we have scoped out for care of the population.
So there are investments we're making now in the tools and the training and the system changes that have to be made and doing some preliminary planning on staffing.
We're working with a range of estimates on the number of beneficiaries that will ultimately be enrolled and as the months go on and we have more information we will staff toward that.
But certainly we are putting in place supervisory and managerial positions so that we're ready to hire the frontline staff as we know how many.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So obviously a big opportunity perhaps.
But I guess I struggle with a big program that we don't know what the price tag is on yet that will be focused on a lot of chronically ill people that have never been in managed care before.
I guess internally how do you think of this as an opportunity? We think about it as an opportunity Tom over the long haul.
So there are certain things...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So long term [indiscernible]? Absolutely.
Over time we believe that our systems of care will allow us to lower the medical costs associated with these patients as compared to what they've experienced in fee-for-service.
There is going to be a ramp-up you're absolutely right if that's what you're implying in that we will manage it just as we have managed very large-scale implementations in places like Ohio and Texas before.
But if people expect that on day one it's going to be turning a profit that's equal to what we've done in the past it's probably unrealistic.
Yes Tom this is Mario.
If you look at when we've brought new populations in in the past we have seen some pent-up demand.
I think we're seeing that now with the new patients in California and Texas the SPDs and the ABDs and I would expect to see something along those lines with the dual eligible beneficiaries as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Have you had a chance to maybe compare/contrast the California versus the Texas proposals? I know it's -- they're brand-new but any commentary one versus the other? Well I don't know about comparing California with Texas but we have been able to compare California ABDs -- the new ABDs versus ABDs that have been on the plan and the new ones are running us a slightly higher costs.
So there is some evidence for some pent-up demand.
It's consistent with what we've seen in the past.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one other -- just one other quick one looks like MMS added nicely in the quarter.
How should we think about EPS contribution from this business of yours? I mean it looks about --  what $0.10 a share in the quarter? Well the problem with MMS is that it has been sort of up and down.
And we haven't reached I don't think a consistent run rate yet.
So it's a little bit difficult to say.
Things are definitely improving.
I think the fact that we got certification from Maine was a big landmark.
We have had the site survey for Maine back in December -- I'm sorry for Idaho back in December and we're just awaiting certification.
But we don't see any reason why that system shouldn't be certified as well because it's essentially the same system that we had in Maine.
And once we get the certification of both systems I think things will stabilize and we'll get more consistent earnings.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is my math right there though? I mean is it that simple as just looking at like $0.10 a share? Yes.
It's Joe speaking -- that's correct.
You can assume about 750k pretax in the penny [ph].
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is it possible to sort of spike out or isolate what the Texas MLR would have been on sort of a legacy basis? And then more importantly give us a sense for what the Texas MLR will do sequentially on both sort of 2Q MLR versus Q1 as well as the year-to-year comparison just given the enrollment didn't come on until March? Chris this is John.
We did not go back and try to reconstruct what it would've been absent the new populations and absent the benefits.
So the answer to your first question is no.
We would expect that we will see progression positive progression with the medical costs going down over the year.
I don't know if we're going to see much of that frankly in the second quarter.
We've got a brand-new population we've got to go out and assess that get folks in care management et cetera and it may be just too soon after the enrollment to see much of a decrease.
Having -- this is Mario.
Having said that remember we guided to a 90% MLR in Texas.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Right right.
Now -- and that's trying what I'm trying to get a sense for what sort of the sequential trend will be there but if you don't have it you don't have it.
I guess the other thing is similar on the G&amp;A side can you give us a sense for the progression there? And can you remind us what you're targeting for the year? Joe will pull up what we're targeting for the year I think.
In terms of progression we should see some improvement in the admin because we had the admin buildup in the first quarter without the revenue associated with it in -- with Texas but then you're also going to get a little bit of headwinds because if in fact our Missouri appeal is not upheld then we'll lose that revenue in the back half of the year.
Joe you have that what we talked about? Yes.
We've guided to 7.8% which is pretty much consistent with where we expect to end up now.
Remember that in addition to the incremental admin expense related to the Texas startup in the first quarter we also only had one month of revenue the incremental revenue in Texas.
Our next question comes from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of small ones I think.
So you mentioned the family of quintuplets.
Was that the singular premature birth issue?  Or was it broader in Missouri the comments that you made there? That was the majority of the $5 million not all of it but that was the majority.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And $5 million was the number.
I missed that before.
And then in Wisconsin it looks like the MLR in 1Q ticked back up from what you were seeing the last few quarters prior to this one.
Wondered if you could comment on what was going on there and if you expect that to trend back down again.
Wisconsin is still a relatively small plan so it's going get hit with some fluctuations still.
If you look at year-over-year don't look at the MLR for a second.
If you look at the medical costs year-over-year we brought those down $30 PMPM.
And one of the of the big challenges we've had in Wisconsin is the rate issue.
We've gotten I think 2 significant rate cuts in 2 years.
So if we can maintain the medical care costs maybe bring them down a little bit more but really work the battle on the revenue side I think Wisconsin will right itself.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe one last question.
So you've mentioned both of your appeal protests Ohio and Missouri.
Can you comment to us about what your timing expectations are around hearing updates from the states on those 2? Well the court case was heard by the judge in Missouri last week and we're hoping for a decision somewhere around perhaps May 10.
So that's probably the next bit of information we'll have out of Missouri.
In terms of the appeal in Ohio perhaps later this week.
We don't really know.
Our next question comes from the line of Melissa McGinnis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just provide us an update kind of setting startup markets aside about what you're seeing from a cost trend perspective with particular focus on utilization trends maybe by category? And then more broadly maybe just remind us what factored into your 2012 outlook for medical cost trends sort of in your same-store book or the non-startup market? Okay.
We're talking 10 different health plans.
What I would say is the medical costs for our more stable plans appears to be flat.
However that doesn't necessarily translate into lower MCR across the board because we do have rate pressures as we talked about in Ohio California with the new Washington contract I believe there's a slight dip in the Washington revenue.
But in places like Michigan New Mexico Utah those are -- our utilization is pretty flat.
Even in California for the non-SPD population the more the legacy or more mature population the tenant [ph] population it's been fairly flat.
I think that we guided to an overall MCR of 85?  85 Joe? 86 so far.
86.
And that was sort of a combination of the higher medical costs and -- with the new populations like Texas and the California SPD.
And really we didn't book or didn't anticipate much improvement even in the more mature plans.
But we didn't anticipate much deterioration either.
Research Division</strong> Okay so no real deterioration in kind of mature MLRs even though I think you have assumed flat to negative rate increases across the board in every market? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Do you assume just that you can offset cost pressures with medical management techniques? Well there are 2 things.
One is we are aggressively pursuing medical management opportunities and the second is while we anticipated no rate increases we're also not anticipating that the states are going to increase their Medicaid fee schedules.
So really if utilization is flat and there's not increased medical or Medicaid fee schedule increases overall I'm sure it should be basically flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess switching focus.
In the event that you do leave Ohio next year how fast can we think about you sort of shutting down that health plan to sort of get rid of the SG&amp;A cost there? And is that even really the right way to think about it because is there some opportunity to maybe redeploy some of the corporate overhead that may be supported by that market towards some of your newer opportunities such as the California duals? Well this is Mario.
There are a couple of things.
We do have the RFP -- or RFA for the duals coming up and if we get that then much of the staff there is going to be retained for that contract.
Also some of the people in Ohio are working on other state projects so we do have some regional people there as well.
So it's not as if everyone in Ohio is only working on Ohio projects and if that Ohio Medicaid contract goes away that there's no need for them.
So there's a little bit of overlap.
So there will be -- if we were to not prevail in the appeal and if we were not to get the contract for the duals then we would have to decrease the staff and decrease the SG&amp;A.
But it would be a gradual process.
We still have the claims run-out that we're going to have to do and that'll take a year.
So there are going to be SG&amp;A costs associated with that.
Now some of that is built into the reserves when we're doing our reserving.
We'll wind it down as quickly as we can but it won't go away completely.
Our final question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> So just thinking about the dual RFA that came out for Ohio.
I noticed that there were some changes to how the state had set it up for the regular TANF CHIP contract and that you were able in the dual RFA to use -- even if you were in the state you could use an additional state's data for clinical performance or care coordination.
And that's different from how it was in that TANF CHIP contracting.
So I'm wondering is it reading too much into that difference to see maybe the state learned something from the first experience and improved it in the second?  Or is it -- should I just be thinking about it as 2 different sets of people going down 2 different paths with really no correlation between the 2? Sarah this is Mario.
I think that the lesson learned from all this is that each RFA is unique and different.
And it's very difficult to translate your experience from one to the next.
I think it's difficult to translate the questions from one RFA to the next.
They may have been assembled by different people they may have different goals.
You just have to take each one individually.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then lastly on the MMS business.
If you guys could just give us an update on where you are as far as the latest certification processes go and seeing that Maine got full certification in December if there's been any discussions around maybe upselling services there? Yes.
This is Mario again.
I think it's a little early to talk about upsales in Maine.
And as far as Idaho goes the site visit was in December and the paperwork is back at CMS.
We don't anticipate any problems with that certification.
We just don't know exactly when it's going to come through.
But I wouldn't take this as a bad sign.
This is not -- it often takes 6 months before a plan gets certification after the site visit.
So this is not unusual.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone for joining us and we will see you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Molina Healthcare Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Juan José Orellana Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Kim.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2012.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
Participating for Molina today will be Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today contained forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including but not limited to statements regarding the Ohio Medicaid and Duals RFA contract awards and pending appeals; Medicaid enrollment growth projections; and the implementation of dual eligibles integration and demonstration projects; our medical cost-containment initiatives in Texas and the finalization of a rate increase in Texas effective September 1 2012; Wisconsin rates and premium deficiency reserves with respect to estimated losses in Texas and Wisconsin.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report for fiscal year 2011 our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of July 26 2012 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
Considering the positive trends experienced in a number of previous quarters Molina's results for the second quarter were a disappointment to us.
Despite increasing revenue by 32% and enrollment by 13% the continuation of higher-than-expected medical cost at our Texas health plan significantly contributed to the net loss of $0.80 per share that we reported today.
The factors affecting medical cost in Texas included higher-than-anticipated utilization of long-term care services unfavorable unit costs and inadequate premiums to cover the medical costs associated with STAR+ members in the Hidalgo and El Paso service areas.
John will be describing shortly some of our efforts to get us back on track in Texas in the second half of 2012.
I want to emphasize that the second quarter also included key developments that will notably contribute to driving long-term value for our shareholders.
Let me take a moment to review the most significant developments.
First our protest filing in the Ohio Medicaid RFA was upheld by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services also known as ODJFS.
This outcome results in the retention of our existing business in Ohio which constitutes approximately 20% of the company's premium revenue.
It also enables us to expand to 38 new counties previously not served by our health plan.
The market opportunity in these 38 counties is comprised of approximately 750 000 CFC or TANF beneficiaries and 64 000 ABD beneficiaries.
Although the contract is currently delayed as the new awards are being litigated by other applicants the rescoring of the RFP resulted in a score for Molina that ranked third out of the 5 selected health plans firmly positioning our application among the top scorers.
Another key development during the second quarter was the Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act.
The court upheld the Medicaid expansion but included a new twist.
The federal government may not threaten the states that don't participate in the expansion with the loss of their existing Medicaid funding.
The ruling which effectively makes expansion optional transforms Medicaid expansion from a legal issue into primarily a political one.
Although we don't know which states will ultimately opt out our working assumption is that some state governments will choose to participate.
A report released by the Congressional Budget Office earlier this week supports this assumption.
The CBO's updated estimates which incorporate the Supreme Court decision now size the Medicaid enrollment opportunity at 11 million new beneficiaries by the year 2022 down 6 million from previous estimates.
Although these expansion figures are lower than what was initially expected it still represents considerable potential growth for companies like Molina.
Our strategy remains the same.
We continue to forge ahead in our reform readiness for January 2014.
We are scaling the company for growth opportunities both before and after that January 2014 date.
And we also remain focused on the pursuit of near-term opportunities such as the dual eligibles integration pilot programs.
On June 28 ODJFS announced the preliminary scoring results for all 7 regions of its dual eligible RFA.
The RFA covers over 114 000 beneficiaries and the contracts are scheduled to begin on April 2013.
We are pleased that Molina Healthcare of Ohio received the highest scores in the 3 regions where nearly 53 000 or 43% of Ohio's dual eligibles reside.
As a reminder these regions reflect our current Covered Families And Children or CANF and ABD footprint.
According to ODJFS once the scoring protest period is complete the top 2 scorers in each region are expected to be awarded a contract with a maximum of 3 regions awarded per health plan.
The final tentative health plan selections are expected after August 7.
You may recall that last April Molina Healthcare was selected by the California Department of Health Care Services to participate as an integrated health plan in a proposed dual eligible demonstration project in San Diego County and as a subcontractor in Los Angeles County.
These 2 counties have approximately 449 000 dual eligibles.
During the month of June the California legislature approved Governor Brown's expansion of the dual eligible demonstration project from 4 counties to 8.
The 4 additional counties are Alameda Riverside San Bernardino and Santa Clara.
Our California health plan currently participates in the Medicaid program in 2 of these counties Riverside and San Bernardino where 101 000 dual eligibles reside.
We presently operate our Medicare Advantage Special Needs plans in Los Angeles Riverside San Bernardino and San Diego counties.
A key feature of the California dual eligible proposal is that initial participation in the program is restricted to health plans that currently participate in the state's Medicaid program.
The state's proposal still needs federal approval from CMS and is expected to be implemented in April 2013 with a phased-in enrollment process.
As we've discussed before the dual eligible patients present complex problems.
But we are gaining experience and we're confident that we will be well positioned to serve these patients as we move forward.
Our experience with provider benefits range from acute to long-term care for Medicare and Medicaid will be critical to serving the dual eligible patients.
As we have learned from our recent experience in Texas it is critically important that a managed care organization understand the environment and health care drivers affecting the coordination of Medicaid long-term care benefits with the traditional Medicare benefits that we will be responsible for in the future.
We continue to hone our dual eligible care coordination expertise by capturing the knowledge we have gained through our implementation of both small demonstration programs as well as large implementations.
For example in Florida we have begun providing home and community-based services in lieu of nursing home placement for Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries in 2 counties.
In Washington we continue to participate in the Washington Medicaid Integration Partnership for the ABDs which integrates medical mental health chemical dependency treatment services and long-term care services in Snohomish County.
On a larger scale our growing understanding of long-term care with the Texas STAR+ program and the data we are capturing will enable us to emerge from the current situation with a deeper understanding of the challenges inherit in caring for the dual eligible member.
In Texas about 70% of our current STAR+ members are dual eligibles.
Washington and California are 2 other large states where we are learning from the transition of thousands of ABD patients from fee-for-service to managed care.
We believe our participation in both small and large programs will provide us with a tested strategy for addressing the challenges for the upcoming dual eligible implementations.
However the experience in assisting these complex patients seamlessly integrated coordination of care and medical management are only part of the solution.
Actuarially sound rate setting and expectations on program savings compared to fee-for-service will also play a very important role in the success of dual eligible integration programs.
As we've now seen in the state of Texas when states develop premium rates for health plans with cost saving assumptions that proved to be too aggressive it can have a destabilizing effect on members providers and health plans.
CMS estimates that in some states the savings target should be up to 5% by the end of the third year.
In California the Department of Health Care Services estimated savings from 3% to 6% by year 3 with full implementation.
We still need to work more diligently with states to set actuarially sound and adequate rates.
Finally let me turn to a couple of other key developments.
We're very pleased that our Medicaid Management Information System or MMIS contract in New Jersey was renewed for another 4 years and then in Idaho we received full federal certification for our MMIS from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
As a result of the certification the state can now claim 75% federal reimbursement for ongoing operations retroactive to June 1 2010.
The system serves over 230 000 beneficiaries and handles over 140 000 claims per week.
Idaho joins Maine as the second state where our system is federally certified since Molina acquired the fiscal agent business in 2010.
Our systems are now certified in all 5 states where we currently operate as fiscal agents: Idaho Louisiana Maine New Jersey and West Virginia.
I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the staff of our fiscal agent subsidiary Molina Medicaid Solutions on a job well done.
We're also very pleased to share with you that despite all the challenges in Texas our focus on quality in that state has not been compromised.
We received the final results of our 2012 NCQA accreditation survey last week.
And the accreditation of our Texas health plan has been extended for 3 more years.
Congratulations to our Texas team on a great achievement.
The second quarter of 2012 has illustrated both the opportunities and the challenges facing Molina Healthcare today.
I want to reassure you that we are not standing still and that we have redoubled our efforts to get us back on track in the second half of 2012 and beyond.
While we're disappointed that our financial results fell short of our earlier expectations none of these setbacks have changed our view regarding the favorable long-term prospects for our company.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today we reported a loss in the second quarter of $37 million or $0.80 per diluted share compared with net income of $17 million or $0.38 per diluted share for the same quarter last year.
Although these results were not what we'd hoped for I want to emphasize that we believe problems we have seen this quarter are isolated and resolvable.
If we look beyond Texas Missouri and Wisconsin we can see the rest of the company is performing about the way we'd expected it to perform.
Missouri has been a disappointment this quarter.
But the termination of our contract effective June 30 has brought an end to this problem.
Wisconsin was another trouble spot.
However enrollment there is small enough such that its impact on the company is limited while we work with the state to develop more sustainable rates.
I'll talk in more detail about Texas in a minute.
But for now let me say that starting September 1 we expect to have a rate increase in Texas that will take us about half the way to breakeven.
We're in the process of implementing cost-containment initiatives that should bring us the rest of the way to breakeven on a run-rate basis by the end of the year.
Turning to overall performance for a minute.
Premium revenues for the second quarter grew to $1.5 billion representing a 32% increase over the second quarter of 2011.
Revenue grew due to membership increases; a shift in member mix of the populations like the ABD which generate higher premium revenues; and due to increased revenue linked to benefit expansions such as the pharmacy benefit carbon in Ohio and the in-patient and pharmacy benefits in Texas that were added effective March 1 2012.
Aggregate membership grew to $1.85 million or 13% year-over-year with the bulk of the sequential enrollment gains coming from Texas.
However as things settle down in Texas we do expect to lose some enrollment there.
Our Ohio and Washington plans also contributed large enrollment gains when compared to last year.
I want to remind everyone that as of July 1 we will not be reporting any enrollment in Missouri since our contract with the state expired on June 30.
We expect that the decline in membership from Missouri will be partially offset by enrollment gains in Washington which is coming in above expectations.
As of July the Washington plan had grown by an additional 41 000 new members from the number which we are reporting today including 12 000 new ABD members which are also higher than we anticipated.
This increase in our ABD enrollment in Washington highlights the shift in patient mix that we are experiencing.
Overall our ABD enrollment reached nearly 253 000.
ABD enrollment grew by nearly 93 000 members or 58% year-over-year led by Texas and California which grew by 59 000 and 24 000 respectively.
In addition our Medicare plans which are comprised primarily of dual eligible members grew by 6 500 members or approximately 25% year-over-year giving us more experience in serving complex populations.
We now have 109 000 dual eligible beneficiaries enrolled through various contracts even though we're not getting the combined revenue for these members.
To give you a sense on how significant the ABDs are becoming to our business in Texas our ABD membership represents approximately 37% of our total enrollment there but it generates approximately 70% of our revenues in that state.
Because of revenues of the Texas health plan constitute nearly 25% of the company's consolidated premium revenue for the second quarter of 2012 the high medical care ratio in that state had a disproportionate impact on our results.
Our consolidated medical care ratio increased to 92.3% during the second quarter compared with 84.1% in the same period last year.
Again if we look beyond Texas Missouri and Wisconsin we can see the rest of the company is performing about the way we had expected it to perform.
Excluding Texas Missouri and Wisconsin our medical care ratio in the quarter would have been 85.3%.
The sharp increase in Missouri's medical care ratio was a result of higher in-patient utilization and high dollar claims from premature infants.
However since the Missouri contract concluded at the end of June we do not anticipate this will be an issue in the second half of 2012.
In Wisconsin our health plan reported a medical care ratio for the second quarter of 121% compared with 81% in the same quarter last year.
We believe the premium rates in Wisconsin are not adequate to cover our costs and as a result we recorded a premium deficiency reserve for the Wisconsin health plan at June 30 of $3 million.
Our Wisconsin health plan is expected to receive new premium rates effective January 1 2013.
We will work with the state to make sure that those rates are actuarially sound and sustainable.
In the meantime we are renegotiating hospital contracts and undertaking efforts to improve profitability in Wisconsin.
Now let's spend some time on Texas.
The medical care ratio of the Texas plan for the second quarter was 109.4% compared with 95% for the same quarter last year.
We have recorded a premium deficiency reserve for the Texas plan at June 30 of $10 million.
Additionally second quarter results were adversely impacted by $14 million of unfavorable prior period development of claims reserves from our estimate at March 31 2012.
In estimated expenses in setting claims reserves for the first quarter we had to rely heavily upon historical data provided by the state's Medicaid agency in place of our own claims payment experience which was almost nonexistent for the new regions and benefits.
We now have the benefit of 4 months of claims experience since the regional and benefit expansion was launched on May 1 of this year -- March 1 excuse me.
Our own experience had demonstrated that our reserve estimates at the close of the first quarter were too low but that same experience gives as much greater confidence in the adequacy of our reserves at June 30.
Absent this unfavorable prior period development and the $10 million premium deficiency reserve the medical care ratio for the Texas plan would have been 102.7% for the second quarter.
We believe the premium rates associated with the ABD contracts specifically in El Paso and Hidalgo service areas are not adequate to cover the medical costs associated with serving those members.
The utilization of long-term care services including personal attendants to help with activities of daily living is currently far exceeding the utilization elsewhere in the state and is also far exceeding the assumptions used by the state of Texas to determine the premium rates.
Furthermore our ABD market share in these 2 regions amplifies the impact on results.
As of June 30 2012 Molina served more than 13 000 STAR+ members in the El Paso service area accounting for 56% of the market where there are 2 plans.
And Molina served approximately 32 000 STAR+ members in the Hidalgo service area accounting for 43% of the market where there are 3 plans.
Based on preliminary information from the state we expect to lose some STAR+ membership in August.
We estimate our monthly loss in Texas before taxes to be approximately $14 million.
The state of Texas has released preliminary rates which we estimate will add an additional $7.4 million in premium revenue each month effective September 1.
In addition we believe the various initiatives aimed at reducing utilization and unit costs will improve profitability by approximately $6.6 million each month by the end of the year.
These initiatives include changes in provider contracts changes in the way we pay our hospitals and the implementation of prior authorizations.
We are required to establish premium deficiency reserves for any of our contracts whenever we believe the estimated future costs of serving that contract exceed the estimated revenues to be derived from that contract.
In other words when our operational improvements alone are not enough to reach profitability we must record a premium deficiency reserve.
As a practical matter we test for premium deficiency at the state level for all of our Medicaid and CHIP contracts combined.
The period we test the efficiency is the time from the measurement date in this case June 30 2012 through the end of the rate year.
For our Wisconsin HMO since rates will not be adjusted until January 1 2013 we have estimated the excess costs over premiums for the period July 1 2012 through December 31 2012.
Specifically we estimate the cost will exceed revenue by $3 million over that 6-month period.
For our Texas HMO where rates will be adjusted effective September 1 2012 we have estimated the excess costs over premiums for that -- for the period of July 1 2012 through August 21 -- August 31 2012 to be $10 million.
By establishing premium deficiency reserves we have brought in to the second quarter of 2012 losses that otherwise would have been reported in the third and fourth quarters of 2012.
Regardless our recording of a premium deficiency reserve does not represent a change in our perspective regarding the long-term performance of either Texas or Wisconsin health plans.
General and administrative expenses for the quarter increased to 8.6% of total revenue compared with 8.3% of total revenue for the same quarter last year.
Principal factors behind the increase in the percentage of our revenue spent on general and administrative costs were a $1.1 million charge related to a decline in the value of the interest rate swap on our corporate office building higher business development costs for both our health plan and MMS segments higher legal costs incurred in the course of our appeal of the Missouri contract award and higher advertising costs.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $236 million for the 6 months ended June 30 2012 compared with nearly $115 million for the same period last year.
Higher medical claims and benefits payable mainly in Texas were the main reasons for the increased cash flow provided by operating activities followed by an increase in deferred revenue.
Medical claims and benefits payable were a source of $123 million in 2012 compared with the use of $13 million in 2011.
Deferred revenue was a source of operating cash amounting to $125 million in 2012 compared with $38 million in 2011.
This is primarily due to timing issues in the receipt of payments for Michigan and Washington.
In addition $50 million was drawn on our credit facility to meet the increased net worth requirements associated with the growth of our Texas health plan.
For the first time the company had cash and investments in excess of $1 billion.
The parent company had cash and investments of $40 million.
Days and claims payable remained flat sequentially at 44 days.
Year-over-year days and claims payable increased from 39 days to 44 days.
Performance at our MMS subsidiary improved for the 3 months and 6 months ended June 30 2012 due to the stabilization of our Idaho and Maine operations.
We're also very pleased with the federal certification of our Idaho claims processing system.
The federal certification is an important strategic milestone for Molina Medicaid Solutions as it should more favorably position our subsidiary to an additional MMIS procurements in new and existing states.
As we have discussed in the past certification triggers revenue and expense recognition.
However the additional revenue will be offset by an equivalent increase in costs.
The current contract in Idaho runs through November 2014.
Because of the uncertainties related to the timing of Texas improvements the company is not updating its earnings guidance which was withdrawn on June 30 2012.
Operator that concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So let's start with a bunch of different things.
Let's start with capital needs.
Do you think there's any short-term or even intermediate-term needs for capital? And I guess maybe for Mario and John is there -- is this a time where you start thinking about larger diversified well-capitalized companies as partners? Josh let me answer the first part of your question regarding capital needs.
There is no need for us to go out and raise capital.
However I think as we saw frankly when we had the $1 million hit because of the interest rate swap that we put on this building interest rates continued to be all-time lows.
So while there may not be a need we're certainly looking at it as the time to get the cash because as the company grows inevitably there will be some need either for additional acquisitions or to fund especially the growth coming from the Duals.
Research Division</strong> So you're just talking specifically around debt.
If there's need for capital you're only thinking about debt at this point? That's right.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Ken.
Looks like Josh got cut off there but maybe just in a meantime just talk a little bit about the lives that are switching out of Texas in the ABD lives that are going to another plan.
Can you maybe just talk about what the drivers are there for the particular members switching out and what the MLR is on those lives relative to the rest of the STAR+ lives in Texas? We don't know what the reason is and we don't know what the MLR is.
We just got a preliminary report from the state.
And frankly given the dynamics there's 3 very good plans in Hidalgo.
It makes sense that over time enrollment would even out.
Research Division</strong> And then as you kind of look at your run rate earnings now in Texas looks about the $14 million multi-thing is that based off -- is that kind of where were we stand right now? Or is that the average in the second quarter? Just because given the continuity of care provisions kind of ended at the start of June just kind of wondering where -- what the $14 million starting point is there? Well first off let me clarify the continuity of care provisions.
There is a mixture of continuity of care provisions.
The continuity of care provisions for acute services is 90 days.
But the majority of our problem is not with acute care services it's with the long-term care services.
The continuity of care provisions for long-term care services is 6 months.
So we have to honor the state's prior authorized services for 6 months or until we can get in and reassess the patients ourselves.
And we are undertaking that but it is a difficult task because it takes a nurse going into the home and filling out a complex form.
We can probably get 1 or 2 of those done per nurse per day.
So that's not a quick turnaround.
And while we are prior authorizing things like in-patient stays that's not where the real cost problem lies.
So Ken getting back to your question about the $14 million loss was pretty much the same each of the 3 months of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how does that connect to the $10 million premium deficiency I guess for July and August? It would just seem that they're just doubling the other $14 million.
And just kind of -- if you can kind of connect that to the $10 million premium deficiency and that's all we have there.
Sure.
I'll let Joe talk about the technical but some of the initiatives that we've undertaken we expect to gain traction in July and August.
Joe you want to comment further? Yes I think that the best way to look at it first of all when we talk about the $14 million loss for -- as a base that includes certain indirect costs that are not included in part of a premium deficiency reserve.
You factor that in with the savings we think have already started kicking in in July.
And that's how we worked out of that number.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So I guess thinking about RFPs pipeline and other big dual contracts based on what's going on now in the amount of resources I assume you need in Texas and Wisconsin et cetera are you thinking about perhaps waiting on some of these RFPs or even not negotiating contracts for things that you may already have won et cetera? Well Josh this is Mario.
I'm not sure that's really an option.
The expansion in California involves the existing health plans.
And since we are an existing contractor we're going to have to meet that.
We have already responded to the RFP in Ohio.
The good news there is that the regions where we came in first are the same regions where we currently have our operations.
So we feel pretty comfortable about that since it doesn't involve new service areas.
Remember that we went to a new service area in Hidalgo where we had no experience.
And Josh let me add one other very important point.
And that is with Texas and to a lesser extent Wisconsin our troubles are primarily rate related.
And when we look at it the Duals in California for example the governor in his budget proposal put out the expectation that dual savings would amount to 3% I think after the third year.
CMS also has put out some expectations where they believe the savings will be 1% or 2%.
In Hidalgo the state expected the STAR+ would be 20% day one and that's comprised of various components but they expected a 30% decrease in the long-term care services from day one.
We had an 11% decrease in the Wisconsin plan effective last year.
So we don't think that the pricing problems that we've run into in Texas and Wisconsin are going to be carried over to some of the Duals.
Research Division</strong> I guess John but -- you can call it a rate issue but maybe it's a data issue right? I mean Texas seems to be bad data.
I mean there's no way you'd be off by that much in terms of savings and it seems like they just have their data wrong.
So California doesn't have the greatest track record around rates.
My understanding is you're still working on that rate decrease.
I don't think you've gotten final rates that will have to come back retroactively once you report Q3 et cetera.
So it just seems like there's higher risk.
I'm just wondering how you guys are thinking about -- is it -- I guess maybe in some of these states it's not feasible to slow it down but are you going to slow down sort of future RFPs beyond that? I think that's a great question Josh.
And here I think is one of the differences.
In California we are operating in the existing markets.
We do have data on the Medicare side.
So we do have better I think utilization data.
When we look at Texas specifically in Hidalgo the state gave us no utilization data despite our asking for it.
They simply gave us a PMPM.
So we made our estimates based on what was happening in the rest of the state in the markets that we had already been serving.
And what we saw was the utilization the number of beneficiaries utilizing long-term care service is -- in our other markets range from 11% on the low end to 20% on the high end.
So when we look into the rates adequate we thought they would be assuming that the same percentage of people in Hidalgo were using it in other areas which led us to believe that it was really a overutilization of services.
What we found once we got in there was that 60% of the people in Hidalgo are utilizing long-term care services.
It’s a much different issue that we have to tackle because we have to go out now on every one of those people and do a home visit.
So you are absolutely right that data -- our ability to see data our ability to analyze the data will be critical and in each of our discussions with the states that's what we've been talking to them about.
We have experiencing in California.
Ohio we're fortunate that they have probably the best rate setting experience of any state we're in there totally transparent.
And then in Michigan which is another duals state that we're looking at we currently have experienced because the state enrolled the Duals into Medicaid Health Plans for their Medicaid non-long-term care benefits.
So again it's we're getting actual experience which I think will help us.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I think that will make sense.
And then just lastly one of your peers when they reduced their guidance there were some relatively large offsets in the G&amp;A that they were able to save some of those incentive comps et cetera.
I'm just curious are you guys seeing any of those business -- operating costs or SG&amp;A cost reductions that could be helping out a little bit in the short-term? We are certainly looking at things like variable comp and reducing it in order to help meet our targets.
Research Division</strong> But no sizing of that or...
No.
We generally don't size up variable comp.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Can you just flush out the long-term care continuity of care period and what you guys can change versus you can't change? So if someone under the pay-for-service system were sort of prescribed to a nursing home now that they're in the facility during the entire 6 months what can you do and what can't you do? Well first of all -- this is Mario.
The patients that we're recovering under long-term care are not institutionalized.
So these are patients receiving community-based long-term care services.
And we must ensure continuation of prior authorized services for up to 6 months after the operational start date or until we've conducted a new assessment and new authorizations are issued.
So as John points out a lot of this is going into the home and doing a reassessment.
But for the problem service which is long-term care services the period is 6 months not 90 days.
We are prior authorizing all the services that we have the ability to prior authorize.
And we have been doing that since Day 1.
For example in-patient acute stays [ph].
That's something that we have been able to deal with.
But the real problem are these in-home health services and there is a 6-month continuity care provision in the contract.
LLLP Research Division</strong> But those -- they can't be at this point even though it's not you’re not 6 months through into it.
There cannot be any new services -- in-home services prescribed without you guys pre-approving them? Is that correct? That's correct.
And the problem is not the new services the problem is the services that we inherited from the state.
As John pointed out about 18% of the beneficiaries in the STAR+ program in other regions of the state are receiving these services.
It's close to 60% in the Hidalgo service area.
So it's more than 3x the utilization rate that it is in other parts of the state.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you guys -- have you guys looked into -- I know Centene talked about that but saw -- see any unusual activity in terms of sort of I guess I'd call prescribing of services right before -- I know you guys weren't officially the managed care company but is there any evidence of sort of aggressive provider behavior at this point? Well I would say yes and no.
Are we aware of any aggressive provider behavior? No.
Do we believe that the Hidalgo service area is an outlier compared to the rest of the state? And the answer would be clearly yes.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to switch gears onto California.
Can you just remind us the right cycle there? And I know their timing is somewhat difficult to sort of pick it out in terms of the rates.
So what do you have in hand now in terms of rate changes for the state and what should we expect coming down the pike in the next 3 to 6 months? Okay.
We have essentially 2 contract types in California.
One is a 2-plan model which would be Riverside and San Bernardino counties and Los Angeles County.
And then the GMC Program which is San Diego and also Sacramento County.
In the GMC contract cycle the rates begin in January 1.
In the 2-plan model counties the rates go into effect October 1.
We have not received any written communication on rates from the state so far.
So we really don't have anything and the fellow that's responsible for rates for the state of California is on vacation until August 1.
So we don't expect to get anything before then.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just real quick and I'll step back.
What's the membership breakdown between the 2 cycles? Or better still the revenue breakdown between the 2 cycles in California? Well the revenue breakdown -- I think what you're saying is the PMPM premium rates they're similar in both programs.
They're just slightly different in terms of how the state does the contracts and when they deliver the rates to us.
About 70% of our members are in 2 plan.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I understand how cumbersome some of the in-home visits to reevaluate can be.
But is there any flexibility available in temporarily staffing up nurses? I think you already mentioned each nurse can do 2 per day so is there anything that you could be working on from that front to sort of get through that bottleneck? Sarah its Terry Bayer.
First of all I recognize that there's a certification -- a RN certification that's required for the nurses.
So it isn't just any nurse on some of the assessments that have to do with determining which program a patient should be participating in.
So it's not as simple as just adding bodies.
We are sending out some of the services.
We are pulling resources from other parts of the state.
And we're doing what we can to get these folks reassessed as quickly as we can.
The reassessments I think back to the earlier comment these are about determining whether the services are appropriate.
And it's really about matching the hours that are assigned with that patient's needs.
And secondarily being certain that they are in the proper program and by being in the right program there are funding differences.
So the assessments become very important.
Sarah this is John.
Let me follow up on that.
That's another rate-related issue that we really didn't highlight because the fix is longer-term.
But when Terry talks about getting people on the right program the state assumes a certain split of membership into what they call the waiver versus non-waiver programs.
We did not get that same level of enrollment.
So when they created the rates they assumed x percent of our patients will be waiver and y percent will be non-waiver.
That pricing difference to us really cost us.
The cost being soft.
Really resulted in $2 million of less revenue than what the state expected us to get.
So that also added onto our problems in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That makes sense.
And then in Wisconsin I just wanted to understand what was going on in the rates there specifically because last quarter it was highlighted as a -- one of the legacy states that's doing well.
I think in the first quarter of '11 you took a premium deficiency with the non-state.
Was the difference now just that premium deficiency reserve is rolling off and that's why you have to take another one? And is that something that's inherited in negotiations with the state that it could be a pattern that recurs? We're hoping that it's not going to be a pattern that recurs because I think the state has seen how their rate setting has affected the plans.
In fact one of our competitors is exiting a couple of regions with a significant population because they couldn't get the rates that they wanted and the state's struggling to find other folks that will sign up other plans that would sign up.
So we have had a lot of discussions with the state.
It's a small state and because of that there's a lot of volatility in the medical costs.
And so it was at this time that we looked out and what we expected the future to be for this rate year and decided to take the premium deficiency reserve.
Research Division</strong> And then last question is I was looking over budget proposals for Louisiana and one of the proposed items was a $1 million cut for the MMIS contract there.
And I'm just wondering -- from an operational perspective I know that when there is cuts within managed care there can be some offsets with the fee schedule where it passed through.
Is that same opportunity -- are there pass-throughs that are available with that type of contracts to maintain margin and freeing [ph] that when it's finalized? Sarah its Terry.
The only comment I have is sometimes changes to an MMIS vendor are tied to service changes so the state takes back things and then the MMIS vendor isn't required to do it anymore.
So there are adjustments that are occurring but it is generally by either claims processing or authorization programs or other things that the vendor does on behalf of the state.
And I do know Louisiana is under an effort to really contain its costs and is looking to take back some smaller functionality.
But then we would reduce our cost as a vendor.
We wouldn't have the same obligations.
As far as the past-through aspect of that I don't have any information.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Green of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on how the Dallas STAR+ market is steering maybe what the MLR there was in the quarter? And what progress you might be managing on long-term care services in that county? Hi Scott this is Mario.
We don't break out reporting at that level.
Suffice it to say the primary problem that we have in Texas is with the STAR+ members in the Hidalgo and the El Paso service area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that -- so suggesting that Dallas might be improving from where it had been running in the last few quarters then? Because that would -- just trying to think about to the extent you're showing progress there on those same services that could give people optimism that you can achieve the same medical management efficiencies elsewhere in the state.
Well clearly we had problems when we first got into the Dallas STAR+ market; I think things there have stabilized.
But one of the big differences is 18% of the STAR+ patients in the Dallas service area are receiving personal attendant services.
58% of the patients in the Hidalgo service area are receiving these same services.
So it's really an apples-and-oranges comparison.
The utilization is markedly different.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The provider contract changes in Texas that you outlined in the press release is that -- have you already announced those or implemented those? I guess what's the status? Can we count on them as kind of signed sealed and delivered? If you could explain that.
This is Mario again.
It's on a rolling basis.
There was one large hospital recontracting effort that was completed in June.
There's another one that is underway but we terminated that hospital system and that will take about 2 more months before we see the results of that.
There were a number of other contract changes that went into effect July 15.
So they're being phased in over time but many of them are already in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then maybe could you speak to the management team in Michigan? I think you might have moved some of that personnel into Texas.
I don't know if that may or may not have been related to the step up in MLR sequentially in Michigan.
But just how do you feel about that market going forward? Sure.
This is Terry.
Just to clarify for everyone.
I think we announced Craig Bass who was the President of our Michigan health plan was one of our strongest presidents showed interest in going back to Texas where we had actually recruited him from.
And he was able to step up and become our new plan president in Texas.
Our changes in Michigan were driven by asking Craig and his agreeing to take the lead where he's been able to move forward with all of the plans in place.
Now again we were fortunate.
We were able to move our health plan president from Wisconsin over to Michigan.
This is an individual Stephen Harris who has been with us for a number of years.
A native of Michigan.
And where just that plan is continuing he was -- it was a very smooth transition.
And we'll be announcing a replacement for Wisconsin shortly.
Also I think.
Joe do you want to comment on the changes in Michigan related to the premium tax? Essentially Michigan changed its premium tax regimen effective April 1 2012.
Where essentially they amended the premium tax and reduced premium rates essentially dollar-per-dollar.
So what you're going to see is that impact was about 5%.
So all other things being equal you'd see about a 5% increase in MCR in Michigan between Q1 of this year and Q2.
But on a PMPM basis the medical costs are basically flat in Michigan.
So that would wash out by the time we got into admin and remove the premium tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
And lastly could you talk about the SG&amp;A ratios? Your original guidance was 7.8% for the year and it's about 8.75% to-date.
How much of that do you think might be potentially nonrecurring in nature as we head into next year? Maybe if it’s initial medical management efforts that once in place you won't need to allocate the same resources or litigation matters in Ohio or Missouri? This is Mario.
One of the things that we're learning about with the ABDs and the Duals is that while they're also high utilized as medical services they also drive up the admin cost a little bit.
For example we know that they use telephone advice lines about 5x more than the TANF members and the calls are markedly longer.
So we just have more people spending more time on the phone with those members.
Also they generate a lot more claims.
And so it's creating additional work in the claims systems.
So there is some ramp up with the ABDs and the Duals that will come on the admin side as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually I just thought of one more just real quick if that's okay.
I just wanted to make sure that -- are any of your cash flows or receivables -- would any of that be potentially at risk in San Bernardino associated with its bankruptcy filing? No.
We deal with the state and that's the City of San Bernardino that's filing for bankruptcy.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to get back to the $14 million operating loss in Texas and what you've done to improve that.
I want to make sure I understand it completely.
You also had a $14 million of unfavorable PPD and $10 million premium deficiency charge in the quarter.
Just to be clear that $24 million of extra cost that's not included in the $14 million operating is that correct? That is correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the operating loss in terms of getting that back to breakeven.
You have the Management Services fees included in that are there profits to Molina inside that Management Services contract so that the goal was only to get it back to breakeven in Texas? Or do you intend -- or do you want to see Texas get to profitability eventually? This is Joe speaking.
Of course we intend to get Texas to profitability.
But to your first question there is no profit margin that goes into our Management Service fees.
They are priced at cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then -- If we just look at the steps that you've outlined to get yourselves back to sort of breakeven in Texas it sort of takes us to December of this year.
Can you explain what's going to happen when we get past December into 2013? What additional steps are there? And is it hurdles for you just from the brighter contract changes and the other initiatives that you talked about here getting it back to breakeven? Is that a big step? Is that little steps that you're doing? And is there more you can do in 2013 and how complicated is it to make it -- make Texas become a profitable market sometimes in 2013? I think the first step is let's get it to breakeven and we've laid out that plan.
The second thing that we know is utilization changes tend to take longer than changing contracts.
So Mario talked about some of the utilization initiatives that we've undertaken on the acute care side.
It's going to take us longer to get utilization down on a long-term care side.
In addition I talked about the revenue adjustments based on getting more people from one program to another assuming that they qualify but the state data suggests that we have an imbalance there.
And I think that the utilization changes that we're implementing will have a long-term positive effect and bring us above breakeven but to what extent we can bake those in by the end of the year we don't know which is why we've left guidance where we have.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you sort of -- can you give me a good read on to how complicated do you think it is to -- just to get it to breakeven? Is that -- are you moving mountains to get that done? Are you doing some simple blocking and tackling? Where is that relative to what you need to do down the road to get this thing back to something that's earning money for the company? This is Mario.
First of all I want to thank you and everybody else on call for your patience.
This is a very difficult task because as John pointed out the problems are not unit cost related as much as they are utilization.
A lot of this is in the long-term care service area where we have to go in and reevaluate people on a member-by-member basis.
And you're talking about tens of thousands of members that are eligible for these services.
There are other things that we will do and we've sort of outlined some of the major things that we're doing to get us back to a breakeven point.
We do have the rate increase coming September 1.
We're looking at other services as well.
And I think that over the long term that's where the final difference will be made.
Things like in-patient hospital services laboratory services physical therapy but the major thrust for us right now is to bring down the costs on the personal attendants services and that means doing a lot of reassessments.
And as John also mentioned we have been told by the state to expect to lose about 8 000 of these STAR+ members in August.
I think Centene mentioned on their call they're picking up about 5 000.
So certainly some of the patients are being redistributed from Molina to the other health plans.
That will lighten our load a little bit but it's going to put a greater strain on other health plans.
We're going to have to go in and do the same kinds of one-on-one in-home evaluations.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So I'm looking at sort of the I guess the $3.2 million on the other initiatives.
That's really sort of only part way there in terms of the one-on-one evaluations and it seems you got more of that due in 2013? I also think that one of the things that will help when we eventually get the full funding for the Duals is being able to manage the Medicare portion.
We're not getting the Medicare premiums and frankly we have done a pretty good job in the past of managing acute medical services both for Medicaid and Medicare.
So as we get more revenue on the acute side service when we get the full revenues stream [ph] from the Duals I think that would help us well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly in Michigan...
Peter I don't want to beat this too much but recall we do believe that the initiatives that we've got in place plus the rate increase will allow us to get to breakeven by year end.
So that's still a pretty short timeframe to get back to breakeven.
And then some of the longer-term initiatives hopefully will start gaining traction but they’ll carry us through to 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back to Michigan even without the premium tax it looks like that deteriorated a little bit from the first quarter to the second quarter.
Is there anything more to that [indiscernible] or what else is going on there? Yes.
It's Joe speaking.
It was -- we normally don't delve into components but they certainly -- the Medicare lies [ph] were a bit expensive in second quarter.
We also had a higher hospital utilization for the quarter.
I don't think it was anything out of the -- it wasn't welcomed but I don't think it was anything representing a serious trend.
Our next question is from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify a little bit more on Texas.
So it seems like we've referred to Hidalgo a lot.
I want to make sure I understand that basically your issues the elevated long-term care services the longer continuity of care provisions are applicable to both of these regions Hidalgo and El Paso.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your losses in the state it looks like just following the financials was $14 000 a month -- $14 million a month excuse me.
And then only a portion of that is -- matching that up against your premium and medical cost schedule it looks like your losses in the quarter on an underwriting basis were about $10 million your losses overall would have been about $42 million and the difference is indirect cost is that correct? Sorry I'm not following that calculation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I look at your -- Maybe I can take that one off-line.
I'll just take that one off-line.
What is your borrowing availability? Josh asked the question about capital but what's your current borrowing availability? We have $170 million revolver.
We've withdrawn $50 million of that as noted in the press release.
The remainder would be free.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry I missed that.
And then finally on the Texas prior period development.
It sounds like that mostly arose because you were using kind of theoretical numbers as oppose to actual claims data.
I'm just wondering how confident you are that your reserves as they're stated at June 30 are adequate to not have prior period development unfavorable beyond this point? Sure that's a good observation.
I think if you look back historically when we have the data available we typically run positive prior period development.
So our expectation now that we have 4 months worth of data in the new service areas and the new benefits is that we are adequately reserved and we should start to see positive prior period development next quarter as has been our history.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the claims just to clarify on this point the claims on the long-term care services that are running high are those fast cycle claims or slow? Can you give visibility on those pretty quick? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Melissa McGinnis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe switching focus from Texas for a little bit.
Can you talk a bit about your commentary on Washington? It sounded like things are going better than some of your very conservative guidance on that state that you put out at the beginning of the year.
And I just wanted to better understand what's really helping Molina defend market share there and/or at the same time what's challenging some of your new competitors to gaining scale more like quickly? Well the enrollment has definitely come in a little higher than anticipated.
We initially projected some losses in enrollment.
Beyond that I wouldn't draw too many conclusions.
In terms of competitive position I think that we have been in that state for many years and have very strong networks and deep provider relationships.
And that's what's I think been most helpful to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then can you just remind us we went through quite a re-procurement cycle with Molina this year.
And can you remind us I think there is one more re-procurement coming up with New Mexico but one is outright.
When exactly is that coming up? And then are there any others on that time horizon that we need to be watching? This is Terry.
For New Mexico it's always -- we're just relying on latest information we have from the state is it will be out in the fall so we expect it quite soon.
And no other information any other re-procurements of our existing business in the short term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a final one.
Just thinking about the duals and thinking about some of the challenges this year in Texas.
In your initial conversations with the various states where you've already like been on business or been in conversations about contracts that are going to be put in force next year.
What are the views around continuity of care provisions there? Some people early on were thinking continuity of care would be even stricter with the dual eligible population and are you comfortable with what might be assumed in rates and then how much your hands are tied early on in those contracts? Yes.
I would just say this.
I think the -- part of the problem in Texas -- this is Mario again -- was a mismatch between the actuaries and the policy people.
So I think the actuaries made certain assumptions and the policy people made certain decisions and they weren't in concert.
I would be careful about extrapolating too much from Texas.
I think that this is an important state and I think that the other states are watching this and they’re learning from this.
CMS has come out with some guidelines where they're expecting savings on the Duals to be 1% to maybe 5% over the period of 3 years.
State of California has mentioned that they think that in their initiatives here in California they're talking 3% to 6% over 3 years.
So I think people are being -- are watching what's happened in Texas and learning from it.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Wright with Monness Crespi Hardt.
How many nurses are currently involved in doing the in-home assessments in Hidalgo and El Paso? Brian there are lots and lots of nurses on the ground doing these things.
This has been probably our single highest priority in Texas and we began this shortly after the go-live date.
I mean we were initially surprised that we got more members than we had anticipated.
We are -- so -- but we didn't -- so we saw this coming we just didn't see it coming to the magnitude that we did.
And as Terry points out you have to have trained nurses it's not just any nurse.
Well I'm just trying to get a better kind of gauge on how many people you could see over the next couple of months to incrementally improve things between now and the end of the year.
I'm not going to estimate how many evaluations we're going to be doing on a daily or weekly basis.
Suffice it to say we recognize the problem.
We're putting as many resources on this as we can.
And it's just going to take some time.
Okay.
And then I know you're not giving guidance but just help us because we have to model something.
Given the one-time those [ph] kinds of things whether the unfavorable part about men or premium deficiency reserves I mean that looks like about 35 [ph] roughly $1 million in the quarter should we be thinking about a positive EBITDA in the next quarter? Brian I know you guys can't model and we withdrew that kind of guidance so we can't give it to you.
I think we've given you the inputs on what we think is going to be onetime.
And where our plan is to get back largely in Texas to profitability.
But beyond that we really can't comment.
Okay.
Not even directionally? We think things are going to get better.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> What's the latest thinking on the investment spending that you're planning on in California ahead of the dual eligible rollout? And then just in the magnitude if you've got a sense of the timing and anything that's sort of included in the -- and I know you're not giving guidance but included in the current forecast versus what would be additive to that? Carl a lot of that is baked in; that's why admin costs are running higher right now because we're preparing for the Duals that are going to come we think second quarter of 2013 in California.
It's not an RBC state it's a little bit different so we do have to make sure that we're going to have adequate reserves but the formula is a little bit different than it is in other states.
Suffice it to say Terry Lisa Rubino who is the Regional Vice President and Richard Chambers who is our current California President are working very diligently to prepare us for that.
Research Division</strong> And anything new on the California Dual process that you think is worth highlighting? So -- for example any update on rate development and/or how the subcontracting with Healthnet will work in terms of what the [indiscernible]? We don't have a lot of new information yet Carl.
And the reason I say that is that right now the state is still negotiating with CMS over the parameters of the plan.
So until they finish their negotiations we're not going to get to the details of how the plan will roll out or what the rates are going to be.
I do want to just jump in here and remind everybody that in addition to L.A.
and San Diego in this latest budget there the state of California has included San Bernardino and Riverside.
So we are in the 3 most populous counties or 4 of the 8 most populous counties that will participate.
Research Division</strong> And then a separate question on California.
WellPoint mentioned on their call that they'd come to verbal agreement with the state on some new rates.
I heard the bit about you guys haven't heard at what your updated rates will look like but be interested how you've been booking your rates.
WellPoint also mentioned that the higher rates they'd be getting would be retroactive that they've been booked into lower reimbursements that would give them some additional upside.
To the extent that your rates are higher and retroactive would you also expect to see some upside relative to what you've been accruing? Carl this is John.
Let me go back.
Recall last year the state put in some rate decreases the providers protested some of the advocates protested and that has gone up to the Supreme Court and then back down.
We booked our revenue as though the provider rate decreases were intact.
So we have a liability.
If the state came back and said that they were not going to take -- they were not going to change the provider rates then theoretically our rates on a retroactive basis would go up and we would be able to book that.
We have not heard that that is within their plan right now.
Maybe what WellPoint is talking about is a good sign for us.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call back over to you Dr.
Molina.
Well thank you for joining us today and thank you for your patience in getting through all those calls.
I want to remind you that we have our Investor Day coming up in September and invite you to attend that.
We'll have more color on Texas I'm sure at that point.
And well this has been a difficult quarter.
We're not happy with the results.
I think in the long run we're well-positioned.
We're gaining a lot of experience with the ABDs and the Duals.
We're in markets where we're going to see a lot of growth even without any kind of Medicaid expansion in the Affordable Care Act.
So we have an optimistic outlook on the future.
So we'll see you at Investor Day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a good day everyone.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday October 23 2012.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Juan José Orellana VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Chantal.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2012.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
Participating for Molina today will be Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act regarding our Texas cost-containment efforts and year-end profitability our Ohio Duals expansion our transition of ABD members into managed care at our California Washington and Texas health plants our MMS operations and other matters.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report for fiscal year 2011 our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company's website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of October 23 2012 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available over the Internet through the company's website at molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone.
Today we reported earnings of $3 million or $0.07 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2012.
We are pleased with the progress we made during the third quarter.
Both revenue and enrollment were strong which bodes well for our company's future as we improve our margins.
More importantly in Texas we saw incremental improvement this quarter as the implementation of our utilization and unit cost initiatives gained momentum.
We are seeing continued stability in our Molina Medicaid Solutions business and it is making the kind of contribution we expected when we made the acquisition.
So let's start with Texas.
Since reporting our second quarter results we have made considerable progress toward achieving our objective of reaching a breakeven run rate by the end of the year.
Our medical care ratio in Texas decreased from 109% in the second quarter to 90% in the third quarter.
This improvement is even better than the medical care ratio we reported in Texas for the second -- third quarter of 2011.
However we are not yet out of the woods.
There is still a considerable amount of work to be done and we must remember that this early success does not constitute trend.
The improvement in our Texas medical care ratio was due to the implementation of initiatives aimed at reducing utilization and unit costs.
As Terry Bayer outlined at our Investor Day in September this included changes to contracts with providers to lower unit costs and the implementation of state-required changes to fee schedules.
In addition a blended 4% premium rate increase that went into effect on September 1 also contributed to the improvement.
Ohio was also in the headlines this past quarter.
Molina Healthcare Ohio was selected to participate in Ohio's Integrated Care Delivery System for dual eligibles.
As a reminder we were awarded the maximum number of regions allowed per health plan and the awarded regions are within our existing service areas.
This service area overlap is important during a transition from fee-for-service to managed care.
If we assume that premium rates are set adequately to cover medical costs then having an established provider network and experience in a given market can ease the transition to managed care for members.
In addition to Texas Washington and California are the 2 other states where we continue to transition thousands of ABD members from fee-for-service to managed care.
In California our health plan has experienced a considerable change in our member mix adding about 20 000 ABD members over the past year and nearly doubling our ABD enrollment.
Accordingly our medical care ratio also increased during the same period because these members require more medical care.
The California Department of Health Care Services recently asked for health plan input in a review of premium rates for ABD members.
Our California health plan has already provided input in support of that review.
In addition we will be exiting an area in Northern Los Angeles County where there is only 1 hospital and costs are extremely high.
We expect this will reduce our enrollment by about 6 000 members but lead to lower medical costs.
In Washington we added nearly 19 000 blind and disabled members since July of this year.
Unlike California the influx of these members has moderately increased our Washington health plan medical care ratio when compared to the second quarter of this year.
Our initial data related to these new members in Washington is promising but I caution you the claims data will take some time to develop fully.
There are a few developments since our Investor Day presentation that I would like to bring to your attention.
On October 12 Governor de Jongh of the U.S.
Virgin Islands announced a partnership between the Virgin Islands and the state of West Virginia in which Molina will provide our Medicaid Management Information System to the U.S.
Virgin Islands through our West Virginia fiscal agent operation.
The contract outlining the sharing of the Molina platform went through several rounds of review at the federal level and has been approved by CMS.
The partnership will benefit both the Virgin Islands and taxpayers by avoiding the cost associated with the design development and implementation of a new system while gaining leverage from operating on a common platform.
This partnership can serve as a model for the country by demonstrating that states and territorial governments can reduce their costs by sharing such technologies for their Medicaid programs.
Molina System in the West Virginia is a fully-certified system by the federal government.
And as a result the Virgin Islands will be the first U.S.
territory to have a certified system.
It is important to note that West Virginia system is the first to be certified under the Department of Health and Human Services' 7 Conditions and Standards for Enhanced Funding.
Although the revenue associated with this partnership is small the precedent established by this partnership is significant.
In our health plan business we are especially proud that our focus on quality continues to attract national attention and recognition from Consumer Reports and the National Committee for Quality Assurance which ranks the top Medicaid health plans in the country.
8 of our health plans are accredited and have been nationally ranked for the 2012 2013 cycles.
We are especially proud that our New Mexico Utah and Washington health plans were ranked the top Medicaid Health Plans in their respective states.
Our health plans are also gaining recognition for innovative partnerships and programs.
For example Molina Healthcare of California and Sacramento County joined forces to launch the Low-Income Health Program.
This program a safety net managed care health plan administered by Molina will allow uninsured low-income Sacramento County residents who do not qualify for Medicaid to receive health care.
The program is a precursor to the Medicaid expansion in California and the implementation of an insurance exchange pursuant to the Affordable Care Act.
It will ensure continuity of care and reduce stress and confusion among members by allowing them to keep their providers when the Affordable Care Act is implemented.
Many of our clinics in the Sacramento region will participate as primary care providers.
The new plan goes into effect in November of 2012 and up to 14 000 childless adults whose income is less than 67% of the federal poverty level will be enrolled in the Low-Income Health Program.
We've also joined forces with America's Health Insurance Plans and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to implement the National Diabetes Prevention Program.
As part of this initiative Molina Healthcare will implement the program to prevent type 2 diabetes in individuals who have prediabetes a condition of elevated blood sugar that may lead to type 2 diabetes.
By developing innovative partnerships with local and regional organizations Molina Healthcare will be able to leverage existing competencies and resources to provide a National Diabetes Prevention Program to our members in Florida and New Mexico.
Molina's involvement in this program also happens to be personally rewarding for me.
This positions our company as a national health care leader focused on prevention of a disease that affects nearly 26 million Americans.
As an endocrinologist the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes was the focal point of my medical education training and research.
As we move into the fourth quarter today's results give us confidence that we're on the right path toward improving our profitability.
The combination of our short-term tactical actions coupled with the experience we are building from the long-term bodes well for our future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to John who is celebrating his birthday today with us.
Happy birthday John.
Thank you Mario.
It's always a pleasure to celebrate your birthday with 58 of your analytical friends.
Hello everyone.
As Mario pointed out today we reported net income of $3 million or $0.07 per diluted share a substantial improvement over the loss of $0.80 per diluted share that we reported in the second quarter.
Of course our turnaround in Texas is the big story for this quarter.
Our medical care ratio dropped from 109% in the second quarter to 90% this quarter.
I want to be clear that we still have work to do in Texas.
But we are delivering on the commitment we made 3 months ago that Texas would be breakeven on a run rate basis by the end of 2012.
It is my belief that we will be able to report success in reaching that goal when we announce our fourth quarter results.
With that said I want to talk for a moment about our third quarter results from my broader perspective.
Premium revenue for the third quarter grew to $1.5 billion representing a 31% increase over the third quarter of 2011.
All of the key factors driving our business forward position us well for the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
Revenue grew due to membership increases more ABD members and the addition of more benefits into managed care.
And the growth in our business is not just year-over-year.
We can actually see the changes happening from last quarter to this quarter.
We were able to maintain revenue between the second and the third quarters despite the loss of our contract in Missouri.
Put another way our growth in Washington this quarter was enough to offset the loss of all of our membership from Missouri.
The growth in Washington came from 2 initiatives the transition of ABD members into managed care and the transition of additional TANF members to Molina as a result of market consolidation.
Our ABD enrollment has grown to 15% of our total membership representing about 1/3 of our revenue.
Our experience managing these chronically-ill and complex members is important because this is a significant area of future growth.
Our consolidated medical care ratio decreased sequentially from 92% in the second quarter to 88% in the third quarter.
This decrease was the result of substantial improvement at the Texas health plan which contributed nearly 1/4 of all premium revenues in the third quarter.
And therefore the medical cost improvements in Texas had a disproportionate impact on our consolidated results.
I want to also talk about the traction we're getting in Texas.
Now let me provide you with more detail.
The medical care ratio for the Texas ABD membership declined to 94% in the third quarter of 2012 from 119% in the second quarter.
ABD membership overall constitutes approximately 67% of all Texas health plan revenue.
Turning to California the increase in the medical care ratio year-over-year was primarily due to the mandatory assignment of ABD members previously served under fee-for-service arrangements.
Generally speaking individuals who are new to managed care have higher utilization of medical services upon enrolling into managed care.
Our internal data and experience with this population suggest that medical care costs will decrease for the ABD members over time.
In California ABD enrollment was spread out over a 12-month period beginning in June 2011 and ending May of 2012.
We have seen utilization decline for the members enrolled early but are experiencing the expected higher costs from members more recently enrolled.
As Mario pointed out during his remarks we are working with the state by providing input into their review of ABD premium rates in California.
We are also exiting a high-cost area with about 6 000 members and a medical care ratio well in excess of 100%.
We continue to accrue for the premium impact of the provider cuts called for by Assembly Bill 97 in California.
As of September 30 2012 we have accrued approximately $15 million to pay back to the state as a result of these provider cuts.
Because we have not passed on these cuts to providers this accrual have resulted in a higher medical care ratio at our California health plan since July 1 2011.
General and administrative expenses for the quarter were essentially flat sequentially and year-over-year at 8.3% of total revenue.
Cash flow provided by operating activities grew to $264 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2012 compared with approximately $155 million for the same period last year.
This is a 70% higher than it was last year.
Similar to last quarter higher medical claims and benefits payable mostly in Texas were the main reasons for the increase in cash flow provided for operating activities followed by an increase in deferred revenue.
We reported a tax benefit in the third quarter.
This is the result of a true-up of our year-to-date effective tax rate to reflect the impact of a lower net income including the effect of nondeductible expenses.
The company had cash and investments in excess of $1 billion.
Our parent company had cash and investments of $41 million.
Days in claims payable increased sequentially by 1 day to 45 days.
Year-over-year days in claims payable increased from 39 days to 45 days.
I'm also pleased to report that we had another strong quarter at Molina Medicaid Solutions.
We reported operating income for MMS of $8 million for the quarter and $23 million year-to-date.
Operating margins for MMS were 17% for the quarter and 18% year-to-date.
As we expected when we acquired MMS the long-run consistency of operating margins in this business counteracts the unevenness that we often observe in the health plans.
We have made great strides in improving our operations which are reflected in the improvement of our third quarter results when compared to second quarter results.
But we still have a ways to go until we are satisfied as the year-over-year results still show a gap.
As such we will not be providing EPS guidance until we are confident that the operational improvements made in Q3 have gained traction for the long term.
Operator that concludes our prepared remarks.
We're ready to take calls.
[Operator Instructions] And we have our first question from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Texas question for you.
It sounds like the 90.3% MLR would have been -- if you would have the rate increase for the full quarter instead of just 1 month I'm calculating about 88% and I'm getting a profit for September.
So it sounds like your goal of breakeven by year-end is it fair to say you're kind of already there? Is there something that you're anticipating in the fourth quarter? Is it seasonality of costs or something that could potentially bring you back under that? So Josh this is John.
As Terry Bayer likes to say "One point doesn't constitute a trend but every trend starts with one point." We had a good September in Texas.
I think you calculated it correctly.
We do have issues such as seasonality that will creep up in the fourth quarter so we're not ready to say that Texas has reached our goal but we're confident that we can get there.
Research Division</strong> Okay so not declaring victory I guess.
Second question just around capital needs and stuff.
And I guess the first question just around Missouri and the exit there.
The claims runout is that in line with expectations? And are you expecting any additional capital freeing up over the next I don't know how long it takes 6 9 maybe even 12 months? And then maybe you could just update us on your overall thoughts around capital adequacy and any potential needs for additional capital as you continue to see the top line accelerate? It's Joe.
In terms of Missouri it's playing out essentially as we expected it would.
And yes sometime between now and first half of next year we'll be able to withdraw -- I think we've talked about there's somewhere between $20 million and $25 million for Missouri.
Regarding overall capital I think John talked about that in New York quite a bit.
I don't know if John wants to add anything.
Josh I mean nothing has changed in our thinking right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I would have thought the quarter obviously -- that's positive but it sounds like the growth is coming in a little bit stronger.
So net-net sort of no change to the overall thoughts around capital? Correct.
And our next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just first in the -- obviously the Texas improvement is fairly dramatic there.
I know the rate helps in September and -- but can you talk us through a little bit about what -- maybe a few of the drivers that you saw in the quarter in terms of what you were able to implement that got that MLR to improve so much.
And what you still have left to put in place maybe in terms of further cost and medical management? This is Terry.
We always share with you that we use a very basic and simple formula to improve our medical costs.
We had unit cost changes we had utilization changes we had claims processing changes and then we had a rate increase.
And all of that combined came into play to bring down that MCR.
I think the details are simply that we looked at our highest cost providers and we brought them back closer to the Medicaid fee schedule or made the adjustments we needed to there.
We greatly enhanced our active utilization management and increased our activities so that only appropriate care was being authorized and we did implement a number of claims processing changes that relate to implementation of state fee schedules.
So you're quite correct that the rate increase helped.
At this point we continue on as we do in all of our markets we'll continue to monitor our unit costs we'll continue to manage the utilization and implement other changes as they come.
So there's nothing dramatic to share with you except a continuation of the same.
Research Division</strong> Can you delineate for us what the unit cost versus utilization just to give us some idea of where the bigger -- We haven't looked at it in that greater detail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a follow-up then on the California dual rollout and kind of what you're seeing now at ABD.
So first can you remind us what the -- when the ABD rates were set here and as you're kind of relooking at them now what was the assumed savings versus fee-for-service in these rates? We've heard -- this is Terry again.
We've heard that the state was looking upwards of 20% to 30% for savings but that was not shared early on with us as overtly as it was for instance in the Texas market.
So there was a cost savings embedded there and all of the health plans have -- brought together their combined experience and are working with the state actuaries at the state's recognition that they're going to reevaluate the rates now that we are post-16 months into that population rollout.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just -- and then thinking about the California dual rollout any update there on timing? And what kind of savings that California might be looking at with the duals? Would it be similar? Would it be materially different there? The state had not updated us beyond what we shared with you folks in September.
And our next question is from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just to come back to California real quickly.
On the 6 000 members in the unprofitable service area what will that do to the MLR perspectively? Or I guess at a minimum can you give us a sense for how much of a drag they were on the current quarter? Chris this is John.
We didn't separately quantify what the profitability was for those members.
It's a relatively small number out of the 350 000 that we've got.
Suffice to say that for that group though on the MLR side the medical care costs were exceeding 100% of premium.
LLLP Research Division</strong> How many of the 6 000 were ABD? Or any of them ABD? I couldn't tell you.
I would imagine that some of them probably were but I couldn't tell you how many of them were.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then more broadly in California on the rate side I believe a portion of your membership was supposed to receive a rate update October 1.
Did that happen? Or have you been given any color as to what that rate change might look like? The 2-plan model contracts L.A.
Riverside San Bernardino have an October 1 rate year.
I think the state has given out draft rates that folks are looking at and looking at the methodology and commenting on.
They're not final yet.
And so we don't typically comment on draft rates.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I mean anything directionally? Or are you expecting a positive rate update? Right now I think that they are still in negotiations.
If it was dramatic I think we would have said something.
Other plans would have said something.
But the fact that no one is doing much in the way commenting would suggest that it's probably what we expected.
If you recall at the January Investor Day we're talking about rates flat to slightly down.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then changing gears.
I know you don't have a lot of members in Wisconsin and it's not a big part of your business right now but obviously United has left there.
And you saw a pretty big sequential drop in MLR.
Is this now a business that you would be actively soliciting? Or any color on what's going on there would be great.
This is Mario.
No we're not actively soliciting any of that business.
The state will reassign those members beginning I believe in February we are still working with the state trying to determine what the rates will be for next year.
We don't yet have the rates.
And that's going to have a big impact on our decision whether or not to stay in Wisconsin.
Obviously we would pick up a portion of those members.
And unless we get an appropriate rate increase we probably will not be able to remain in Wisconsin.
Our next question is from the line of Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Seems like you've done well with Washington considering bringing on the ABD population is this a situation of familiarity with the state and population that kind of helped you manage it out of the gate? And I guess your comfort level just in terms of the unlikeliness of seeing any hiccups there relative to maybe some of the other states where you have seen issues within this population? Yes this is Mario again.
I want to go back to the comments I made earlier and that is that having an established provider network and experience in the market is really helpful when you're transitioning new populations.
We have a very strong provider network in Washington.
It's a plant with a lot of experience.
We've been operating there since 2000.
Good reputation good relationships and that has made a big difference.
I think that any time we're in a situation where we can transition members to an existing service area like the upcoming situation in Ohio that's certainly our preference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to California sort of higher MLR there and state to review the premiums.
Does that -- I guess does that give you any pause around the duals? Or how you think about the ability to manage that population at all? And then how do we think about startup costs and initial MLRs for the California duals? Well first of all -- this is Mario again.
I think everyone has struggled in California with the implementation of the ABD patients and that's why there's been a lot of discussion back and forth with the state over the rates.
The other thing to remember as John pointed out that that these patients were rolled in 1 month at a time over a 12-month period.
And while the costs have been lower for those that entered early as they've come down we still have -- of patients that came in later and we're still experiencing higher medical costs.
If you look at all the states though one of the things we've pointed out is that the ABD patients have pushed up the medical costs somewhat.
And that's to be expected when you got relatively sick patients who are higher utilizers than the TANF patients and these are patients that are new to managed care.
I think the same applies for the duals.
And when we get the ABD members in who are duals we're going to have similar issues and it's going to take time to work down the medical costs.
So we have said before we expect higher medical costs for certain populations in the future.
We think we can bring them down over time.
And we also think that a big key to managing the duals is going to be managing the long-term care benefits which are less medical and more social and supportive in nature.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carol with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with Washington state enrollment was much higher there than we expected.
I guess 2-part question.
Did you retain more than you expected? Or did members voluntarily stay with Molina given your presence in the state? And secondly is there anything to suggest that this enrollment will become more costly as claims mature a bit more over the next couple months? Tom this is John.
With respect to your first question we did get a greater retention and we did get greater new enrollment which is why enrollment is higher than what we had guided to back in January.
Not quite sure what you mean by the second part of your question.
Will this enrollment be more expensive? Could you clarify? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you have new enrollment coming in and we're seeing a slight increase in the MLR in the market and I'm just wondering if there's any other data points you can give us to provide some comfort that we won't see another 3 or 4 or 5 or whatever percent increase -- percentage point increase in the MLR in that market with a bolus of new members coming in.
I apologize Tom.
I heard disenrollment not this enrollment.
Perhaps I need a hearing aid for my birthday.
Right now the data that we've got -- the claims data from the first 3 months suggest that the costs are not running up higher than we expected.
I think we actually got a little bit of positive development for Washington so we're feeling that the costs are in line.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Getting back to the Texas question again your ABD MLR is from 119% down to 94%.
I think you said maybe 1/3 of that comes from the rate in September but the other 2/3 comes from other things.
Are there some onetime items in there that we can sort of back out or timing things that we can back out? Or should we look at that as the current run rate trend? I know you don't talk a lot about prior period development but if you can discuss that perhaps that would help us understand it? Or maybe is there a timing differential between when you got the rate increase versus when you have to pass some of that rate increase along to providers? Now I think part of what's changing that is you have to factor in the premium deficiency reserve that we took in the second quarter.
So I think you're going to see this from some other folks in the future as these new contracts come online if other organizations take a premium with the efficiency reserve in one period then they push costs from a future period into the current period.
We did that in second quarter so we didn't have those costs occurring in the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> So there's none to be backed out that you didn't over reserve perhaps at that point? The premium deficiency reserve it has an impact.
I think that we are very adequately reserved from a pure claims standpoint in Texas.
If you look at the days in claims payable if you look at our cash flow which you see is an increase in the medical claims benefit line a lot of that is coming from increasing the reserves in Texas.
So I don't think it's a case that we're going to be under-reserved in Texas.
I also don't think that the 90-plus% MCR that we experienced is the run rate.
I think that what Terry talked about in terms of decreasing utilization and having some of the provider contract changes take -- have full effect.
We should see continued improvement there medical care ratio for the ABD members.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then can you talk about the timing on the California rate review process? Like what's the time frame on that? We've submitted our data.
I don't know who else has yet.
Obviously we're pushing the state to get us an answer as quick as possible.
But we also want to make sure that we don't exchange expediency for accuracy.
We want the right rate not a quick one.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if you had a handicap what's the likelihood that that rate goes higher versus goes lower? If I had a handicap stuff I'd be at the racetrack I think.
I mean it's really hard to know.
Our data suggest that they were too aggressive in the rate assumptions.
And our next question is from the line of Melissa McGinnis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One more thing on Texas just to understand as well some of the things that might be driving the margin improvement there.
Was there any disproportionate loss of membership of some of the higher-cost members? Because it actually looks like despite the rate increase your premiums PMPM came down sequentially.
I'm just trying to understand what might be the driver of that.
Sure this is Terry.
We shared with you at Investor Day about an 8% drop in our ABD enrollment about close to 10 000 members over the last 3 or 4 months.
And yes those that dropped out were running a significantly higher MCR.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then -- Let me just add this.
This is Terry again.
That also impacted the mix on the rate increase we received.
So we received slightly over 4% rate increase and it would have been greater if we would have had more higher cost members.
So that was calculated very thoughtfully by the state to pick up the gap where the higher costs were.
Research Division</strong> Right great.
And then maybe switching to a different market.
If we look at Michigan the MOR there has come up pretty significantly over the last 9 months.
And I was just wondering if I'm remembering right Michigan actually carved in or started assigning some of their duals on the Medicaid side.
Is that having any impact on the MLR there? And I guess just wanting to understand the margin change in that market.
Melissa this is John.
The margin change primarily due to the change in the premium tax it used to be I believe 6%.
And so it had the effect of bumping up the revenue and then we would take the premium tax line out of admin not out of the medical cost.
So that's had the biggest change in what appears to be MCR margin.
And our next question is from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on Peter Costa's question ask one more directly on -- as I look at your claims and benefits payable schedule for the 3 months ended September of 2012 the prior period positive development is $47 million and is from a negative development number on the last quarter.
And I guess I wanted to understand more directly how much of that if any affected the income statement in the current quarter.
This is Joe speaking.
Without going into a state-by-state basis.
I think it's fair to say that much of the -- we talked in the second quarter about the negative impact of prior period development in Texas.
We think we've restored those reserves in the second quarter and then carried on into the third.
So if you look at the $46 million of prior period development from Q2 to Q3 that's pretty consistent with what we've shown in the past if you look out the runout from 2010 -- 2009.
So again I would say I think we caught up in the second quarter and we've maintained those margins in the third.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as I think about the change then in MLR is the sequential change in MLR not attributable to some of this positive development? I think we talked in -- I think we talked at length that you go back to our second quarter release we talked about the impact of the PVR and unfavorable development in the second quarter I think it was $10 million on the PVR and $12 million in unfavorable development.
I think the better approach is to go back and relook at your calculation at the second quarter MCR rather than the third.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right I'll do that.
So then here's another follow-up on Washington.
In light of this -- you've kind of answer this question already but I'll ask it again.
So in light of a couple other states where you're highlighting MLRs above 93% on ABD populations can you talk about maybe how much visibility you have? How much claims inventory you have in hand today to give you the confidence on the 93%? Or how you would expect to track and that and play that out over the next several months or perhaps by comparison how did the MLRs progress in those other states to get to this level? Some over 100% like California and Texas? This is John.
I think in Texas we got the membership all at once.
So just to sort that out was difficult.
In California -- and little bit different because the enrollment progressed over a period of 12 months.
I think in California what the bigger driver is in terms of the MCR for that particular population is the rate giveback that we have accrued.
So if you think that we want to give back a significant premium to the state we've got to record it at $15 million but we didn't drop the provider rates because the state didn't.
You've got a mismatch there which you don't see necessarily in other states.
It's hard to take the experience in 1 state and necessarily translate it to the other.
What we've got in Washington is stable provider base rates that we believe having looked at it are adequate for the population and frankly some pretty aggressive UM up in Washington that has provided us with the confidence as we watched the claims run out now for 90 days at least that we're not going to have a significant negative development in the future.
This is Mario.
Let me just comment on California to be sure you understand.
In California there was supposed to have been a provider fee schedule cut.
There were some issues in the court that prevented that but the issue is not resolved.
And so we have been reserving as if we were going to have to give money back to the state because of this provider fee schedule change.
Because our contracts many of our contracts in California are tied to that Medicaid fee schedule.
Until the state changes it we don't change it either.
So we've understood there's mismatch.
Our next question is from the line of Carl McDonald from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on that $15 million accrual in California.
And my understanding from some others was that it didn't sound like that rate cut was actually going to be implemented so I'd be interested in your latest conversations with the state if you have a bias one way or the other.
We certainly do have a bias Carl.
And that is until we see the final rate sheets we're just going to keep doing what we've been doing.
So we know that other plans have had discussions with the state about reversing that.
And if that's the decision the state makes then we will reverse it.
Otherwise we are confident that we're well protected against the state coming back and asking us for money.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Green from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us did you make an accrual in the current period for lower California provider rate? Or is that kind of annualized now? The accrual is running about $1 million a month.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then one more on the California ABD MLR.
You said it was higher mostly attributable to the recently-added lives.
But it looks like in the press release you only added 3 000 sequentially.
So I was hoping you could elaborate whether just those most recently added that are driving that or was there some unfavorable developments in the current period California MLR? Scott this is Mario.
If you go back to our investor day there was a slide where we showed a cohort of patients that we followed forward for 10 months and you saw how their cost went down.
Well the more recent patients are still running at higher costs so it's going to take a while to work through that.
And that's what we're talking about here.
So that that group that came on in the first month we think has -- their costs have flattened out.
But it's going to take 10 to 12 months for each cohort to kind of flatten out again.
And that's what we mean.
So there are continued upward pressure and it's going to level off and then go down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I thought you had said before that ABD MLR in California was around 95% and now we are seeing a step-up to 110% and I wasn't sure what was driving that because it didn't seem like you added so many new members.
But you're saying it's kind of been and remains elevated? It's sort of a blended number and it's going to take time for that to come down but we think that it will come down over time next year.
Scott it's Joe.
There are a couple of items though that were I think are driving that number higher than we would the California MCR than we would expect in a run rate.
First thing I'd like to point out it's the California has removed its premium tax this quarter.
So this would apply not just to the ABD to SBDs but across the California population.
That's probably driving MCR of about 1.5%.
This is analogous to the situation in Michigan in the start of the second quarter.
We've also had some catch-up in California on capitation payments specific to the STDs.
We've had to go out and recontract with some of our cap providers to allow for the higher premium.
So you do have some factors in there that are spiking at this quarter but I wouldn't call run rate issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
Would you say the run rate maybe is a couple hundred basis points less or any way to estimate that? When I take an estimate of the premium tax 1.5%; the cap issue in unfavorable prior period development probably another 2.5%.
This is all on the California consolidated MCR.
So we definitely saw a little bit of an uptick this quarter but not nearly as much as the financials suggest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about the MMIS revenue trajectory? What drove the sequential increase and how you see that trending going forward? The sequential increase in MMS revenue is really just accounting.
If you recall we've been deferring revenue and expense recognition for the Idaho MMIS.
We went through some accounting exercises with that last year you'll recall where we had some write-offs.
So upon receipt of CMS certification and acceptance of the system by the state of Idaho in July we started recognizing both revenue and expense in MMIS.
The P&amp;L impact is pretty much 0 because as you'll recall we were booking revenue and expense at very similar amounts.
But it will drive higher revenue and higher expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one real quick.
Any update on California's -- it was thinking about integrating the CHIP and Medi-Cal programs? I was just curious whatever happened with that? It is definitely happening and it will begin I believe in January.
You will see those former CHIP members will roll over to Medicaid.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you view that as a positive or a neutral or a risk for your business? I think it's largely neutral.
And we have time for one more question.
It comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to speak about contract opportunities and I guess I would break it up into 3 buckets here: Ohio Michigan and MMIS.
On Ohio that was just -- Ohio duals was just pushed back.
And I was wondering if you had any thoughts on the reasoning and if there had been any resolution there on some of the unknowns like Day 1 savings or rates? This is Terry.
So you know what we know we are just at the mercy of the state letting us know when their startup dates.
We know they're in negotiation with CMS.
This is really a new venture for these states to work out with CMS how these 3-part contracts are going to go.
And I think they're learning as they go and as glitches in their rollout process occur they just turn to us and let us know it's delayed.
But we have had no further official delay although we've heard as well.
Research Division</strong> And then on Michigan as we're getting close to the end of the year here are you still expecting to hear an update on awards in 2012? No.
We haven't even embarked on that RFP process.
Michigan did note originally was attempting to go forth with an RFP this year for 2013.
They then let us know mid-process that it would be a 1/1/2014 but the RFP process for the duals has not yet been rolled out.
And we've heard nothing further about a further delay.
So as far as we're concerned they're still targeting 1/1/2014 for their duals launch.
Research Division</strong> Do have a date when you expect the RFP to be rolled out? No.
Sorry we don't.
We don't have any further information.
Research Division</strong> And then the last bucket would be for MMIS if you could just talk about some of the opportunities that you're evaluating the CMS MMIS fiscal agent contract status report suggested about 4 to 5 contracts were coming up for rebid a year.
So just any thoughts on how active we may be pursuing this new contracts and as some of them coming up for rebid in 2012 and 2013 are in states where you have a managed care contracts if you could just speak to which contracts may be of more interest to you? Sarah this is John.
When we bought the business we wanted it to target the states where we didn't have a managed care presence.
We have plenty of growth opportunities in the health plan business so there's no reason to cannibalize ourselves and there are enough states for the MMS business to pursue RFPs I think that frankly the Virgin Island example might give us real innovative and competitive target or competitive advantages in some of these applications.
But right now we're not disclosing where we're playing.
And Dr.
Molina I will now turn the call back to you to continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Well thanks everyone.
I have nothing else to add.
We look forward to being with you again at the next quarterly earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great evening everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Molina Healthcare Fourth Quarter and Year-end '2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] A quick reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday February 7 2013.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Juan Jose Orellana Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you David.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2012.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call and take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including without limitations statements regarding our ABD and duals membership in Illinois growth and enrollment associated with the Medicaid expansion our projected revenue growth over the next several years our accreditations and quality ratings our medical care costs and our financial guidance for fiscal year 2013.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of February 7 2013 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan Jose.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion today.
Let me start by saying that we are proud of our strong fourth quarter operational results which reflect solid growth in our revenue and considerable improvement in our margins.
Our performance in the fourth quarter is a strong finish to 2012 a year in which we successfully managed through a difficult operating environment resulting from margin pressure at our Texas Wisconsin and California health plans.
We are especially encouraged by the traction we are gaining with our operational and strategic initiatives that we have outlined in the past.
The overall result was a record year for our company with revenue totaling $6 billion.
In 2012 our company revenue grew by nearly $1.3 billion while our enrollment grew by an additional 100 000 members.
To put this in perspective our annual revenues have increased by over 50% in the last 3 years and nearly all of this increase has come from organic growth.
As we've talked about during previous presentations our strategy calls for us to double our annual revenues in the next 3 years.
As we begin looking forward at 2013 I thought it would be worthwhile to think back on some of our accomplishments in 2012 and consider the solid foundation on which we can build in 2013.
Our health plans in Washington and Ohio had successful Medicaid contract bids.
Our Ohio health plan will expand to serve the entire state and was selected to participate in the new contract for the dual eligibles.
We helped to transition thousands of aged blind and disabled or ABD members from fee-for-service into managed care in Texas Washington and California.
We experienced considerable growth in Texas as we implemented new contracts for ABD members in the Hidalgo and El Paso service areas.
Our Utah health plan celebrated its 15th anniversary of serving that state's Medicaid program.
It was in Utah that we first demonstrated that our business model could be replicated in states other than California.
In Wisconsin we made great progress in lowering health care cost by entering into new contracts with the major hospitals in our network and we received a premium rate increase.
Performance of the Florida health plan has improved as medical cost decreased resulting from reductions in unit costs and utilization.
Illinois is a new market for Molina Healthcare.
We're excited to have been selected to serve members in the Central Illinois region.
Starting in the second quarter of 2013 we will begin serving seniors and persons with disabilities in the Medicaid program as the state expands its integrated care program.
There are approximately 20 000 ABD patients in the central region.
In the fall of 2013 our Illinois health plan will also begin serving duals in central Illinois under the state's Medicare-Medicaid Alignment Initiative.
There are approximately 18 000 dual eligible beneficiaries in this region and Molina Healthcare will compete against only 1 other plan.
Our participation in Medicare is now entering its eighth year and we are now the sixth largest Medicare Special Needs plan in the country.
All of our eligible plans have achieved 3 Star ratings.
We opened new clinics in California Florida and New Mexico this year with more to come in 2013 to supplement our direct delivery footprint which already included a presence in California Virginia and Washington.
As I've said before our direct delivery strategy does not replace our contracted physician network.
Instead it supplements access for patients in areas where access to primary care is a challenge.
Molina Medicaid Solutions achieved improved financial performance overall.
With the CMS certification of our Medicaid Management Information Systems in Idaho in 2012 all 5 of our Molina Medicaid Solutions states now operate systems certified by CMS.
In addition we also attained a 1-year contract extension in Louisiana and were awarded a contract to use our West Virginia system to serve the U.S.
Virgin Islands.
Next year in 2014 the Affordable Care Act will continue to be implemented and with it expansion of Medicaid coverage to newly eligible beneficiaries.
At this point the governors of California Illinois New Mexico Ohio Michigan and Washington have announced they intend to proceed with expansion.
In those states expansion could add up to 4.3 million new beneficiaries.
Florida Utah and Wisconsin are still undecided.
Should these states elect to expand Medicaid the potential market could increase by an additional 1.3 million new beneficiaries.
Over the next 3 years we expect to double our annual revenue from $6 billion to $12 billion while at the same time improving our profitability and enhancing our reputation for quality.
We intend to accomplish this through contracts for dual eligible members in the markets we currently serve and through increases in Medicaid enrollment in our present states.
We expect to maintain NCQA accreditation in all states and it is our goal to achieve 4-star ratings for our Medicare products.
For Molina Healthcare 2012 was a year of opportunity challenge and validation.
As more states moved beneficiaries of government programs into managed care our experience and track record continued to open new doors of opportunity for our company.
We will continue to execute on our strategy and remain true to our mission to bring quality health care services to even more of those who need it most and are least able to afford it.
Thank you.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As Mario noted this year we faced some challenges but have made great progress which is reflected in our fourth quarter results.
Today we reported earnings of $26 million or $0.54 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2012 a substantial improvement over the earnings of just $0.07 per diluted share that we reported in the third quarter and the loss of $0.72 per diluted share for the same period last year.
There was a lot of ebb and flow in this quarter: a $12 million benefit from a retroactive rate increase in California a $30 million benefit from a prior period claims development in Texas and a $14 million expense for potential settlements.
Had we not incurred these items earnings per share would have been about $0.26 for the quarter.
But the real story of this quarter is that we have demonstrated an ability to work with our state partners to get rates right as we increase value by encouraging members and providers to access and provide care in a more cost-effective manner.
That's a reassuring message as we prepare for 2013 and 2014.
In the interest of time I'm going to focus on Texas and California but I want to point out to everyone that 7 of our 9 health plans reported a decrease in their medical care ratios from the third quarter of this year to the fourth quarter of this year.
As we've discussed in the past we usually see an increase in medical care ratios from the third to the fourth quarters.
But Texas is of course the big story.
When we reported results in the third quarter we felt that Texas was on the right track but we didn't yet have enough information to be certain.
Today we have that information.
With the benefit of the last 3 months of the year we are now able to review the Texas health plan's performance over the entire 10 months that have passed since the expansion took place effective March 1 2012.
In the fourth quarter we were able to reap the benefits of our approach to patient care and provider contracting.
We also recognized more revenue due to increased premium rates that more closely matched the high costs of our ABD members.
The result is that our Texas health plan reported a medical care ratio of $0.78 -- 78% for the fourth quarter with a benefit of about $30 million of lower medical cost that related primarily to the second and third quarters of 2012.
However to understand the Texas performance in the proper context we have to assign all revenues and medical costs to their proper periods.
When we do that we can see that the medical care ratio of the Texas health plan declined from 99% in the first and second quarters of 2012 to 90% in the third quarter and 89% in the fourth quarter.
This represents solid improvement that gives our shareholders a fair return while also providing value and quality to the state of Texas.
For the fourth quarter again adjusting for a favorable out of period claims development the Texas health plan reported pre-tax income up $4 million.
We have made good on our commitment to reach breakeven by the end of 2012.
While we are proud of our accomplishments in Texas I want to be clear that we are not going to maintain a 78% medical care ratio you see reported in this fourth quarter.
The adjusted medical care ratio of 89% for the fourth quarter that I mentioned a minute ago is a good starting point for 2013.
California is another example of where our perseverance has paid off.
You will recall that on our third quarter call we talked about our efforts to demonstrate to the state that higher premiums for ABD members were appropriate.
In the fourth quarter we received a cumulative retroactive rate increase of approximately $12 million for our ABD members.
About $4 million of this rate increase related to 2011 while about $8 million related to 2012.
So just like with Texas the medical care ratio of 89% that we reported in the fourth quarter is not indicative of where we are on a run-rate basis.
When we push back the retroactive rate increase to the proper time periods we have an adjusted medical care ratio of 94.5% for the fourth quarter.
The situation in California is analogous to our situation in Texas.
Our greatest challenge is among our ABD members.
After adjusting for a retroactive rate increase in California we still had a 103% medical care ratio for the ABD members in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We did achieve a 10% decline in inpatient utilization between the third and fourth quarters of 2012.
This activity coupled with the rate increase shows we are making good progress towards improved financial performance.
General and administrative expenses grew to 9.7% of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2012 from 8.3% in the third quarter.
Absent $14 million of expense recognized for potential settlements in the fourth quarter our administrative expense ratio was 8.8%.
We will also continue to make the infrastructure investments necessary to support the growth opportunities we've previously identified.
As of December 31 2012 the company had cash and investments of approximately $1.2 billion.
The parent company had free cash and investments of approximately $45 million.
Moving on to guidance a more comprehensive list of guidance components for our 2013 guidance can be found in today's press release.
The following are some highlights and as a reminder all numbers are approximations: total revenue $7 billion; medical care ratio 88%; G&amp;A ratio 8.6%; income before tax $128 million; net income $74 million; earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA $245 million; diluted EPS $1.55; and effective tax rate 42%.
Let me speak about our tax rate for a moment.
Although we have historically experienced and guided to a tax rate of about 38% we expect that limits in compensation deductions for health insurers as a result of the Affordable Care Act will increase our tax rate.
These changes to the Internal Revenue Code apply to all health insurers beginning in 2013.
For our 2013 guidance we estimate that the impact of a change in our effective tax rate from 38% to 42% results in a reduction to earnings per share of about $0.10.
I also want to point out to everyone that we are now calculating our medical care ratio by dividing medical cost into revenue exclusive of premium tax.
We made this change to allow for better comparability of the medical care ratio between periods for health plans operating in states where premium taxes have changed.
Michigan and California reduced or eliminated their premium taxes during 2012.
A complete discussion of our assumptions and risk factors associated with our guidance will be discussed at our upcoming Investor Day on February 21.
So I would ask that you defer your guidance questions until then.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
David we're now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from the line of Sarah James from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the detail on the California MLR but I wanted to narrow in on the 103% ABD MLR post the retroactive timing of rate increase adjustments.
So when you think about bringing that down how much progress would be driven by rates versus medical management? And then maybe in terms of inpatient since that's the metric that you chose to highlight in the prepared remarks if that went down 10% for the fourth quarter how much further is there to go until you get to a range you're comfortable with? That's a multiple-choice question there.
A lot of detail in there Sarah.
I think that we've gone back and talked to the states about the rates again because we think that even though they have looked at rate adequacy we believe and some other health plans believe that perhaps we're not quite where we need to be in terms of the rates.
So part of this may come from additional rate relief.
Our medical directors have done a very good job of working on getting utilization down in terms of inpatient.
And inpatient for the ABD constitutes I would say about 30% to 35% of all medical costs so we would expect to gain some further decreases because of continued decreases in utilization.
1 month again doesn't -- or 1 quarter doesn't make a trend.
We also have a new pharmacy contract that took effect January 1 of this year which we expect will help with those costs as well.
Our next question today comes from the line of Justin Lake from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just looking ahead can you talk a little bit about how you see the rate environment shaping up going into 2014 and specifically on the industry tax? Can you tell us any of the conversations you're having with states and your confidence in the ability to pass that through? Well Justin on the rate environment we're going to go through a lot of detail in a couple of weeks on the rate increase -- increases or decreases or flat.
We think that by and large rates are going to be sort of flat again this year state budgets are not.
They're improving but still not in great shape.
As far as the premium tax goes I'll let Mario speak to our efforts there but we have seen some actuarial white papers on other sorts of premium taxes.
And since it is a discrete item we believe there is a very good argument if it's not repealed that it is paid for as a discrete line item.
This is Mario.
We continue to advocate for repeal of the tax.
We believe that this excise tax really does not generate new revenue for the government because our premiums are paid for by the government so you're really just robbing Peter to pay Paul.
However as with other premium taxes we've seen in the past we expect this to be passed through.
So if there is a tax like this we would expect that the states would increase our premium revenues accordingly and that's consistent with actuarial practices and our previous experience on premium taxes.
Our next question today comes from the line of Josh Raskin from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Texas.
I'm just looking at the change on a sequential basis and I understand the rates added $9 million and the PPRD was $30 million.
So I'm kind of backing into a medical cost improvement of like $3 million maybe something in the ballpark of $1 million a month of improved medical costs.
So I'm curious did that continue to ramp through the quarter? Is that a decent run rate? Or is this just the tip of the iceberg and you guys are still making significant changes in that market that you think would improve even further? Well what we said Josh was that we're starting at about an 89% medical care ratio for Texas and we think that that is a good baseline going into 2013.
Of course we're going to continue to try to work that down.
We've made a lot of improvements in terms of our contracts and we'll continue to work on utilization management to see if we can push that a little bit lower.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just trying to figure out when I look at the EBITDA guidance for this year of $245 million.
If you look at sort of the run rate of below-the-line items D&amp;A investment income rental interest expense et cetera is there some big step-up assumption for 2013 relative to the fourth quarter? Because it looks like the bottom line got -- This is Joe speaking.
We don't want to go into too much on guidance obviously on this call.
We'll save that for New York.
But fair to say we've been ramping up a lot of our infrastructure investment in anticipation of entering new markets which inevitably has been pushing the depreciation line up.
We'll move to our next question coming from the line of Tom Carroll from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could just walk through some of the moving pieces here.
And John I think you said if you carve them all out you get to a $0.26 number for the quarter.
So maybe we could just start with your $0.54 reported number and work your way to the $0.26 for me on a per share basis? Go ahead Joe.
It's Joe speaking.
It's really the 3 items John called out to get there.
The first item being the abnormally high prior-period development number in Texas of $30 million.
There's always a degree of prior-period development usually favorable in our case.
We just call that number out because it's particularly big this time.
So you could back that out or you could back out the majority of that and translate that into a per share basis.
And I think it's -- I think on a per share basis it's about $900 000 pretax equals about $0.01 a share after tax.
So you would just back out that $30 million.
We talked about the retro rate increase in California of about $12 million for the ABDs in California.
About $2 million or $2 million to $3 million of that relates to fourth quarter.
The rest of it is either in earlier parts of 2012 or 2011.
So again you could subtract out $10 million for that.
And then we talked about $14 million of accruals related to settlements in that kind of item which are unlikely to recur.
So that would go back the other direction.
So if you price all those out at around $900 pretax equals $0.01 you'll get around $0.25 $0.26 $0.27.
It's a rough cut but that'll be -- it's in the ballpark.
Did that help? [Technical Difficulty] We'll move to our next question coming from the line of Ralph Giacobbe from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping maybe you'd talk about another state.
Wisconsin I think was a little bit problematic sort of earlier in the year.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing in that market at this point? Sure.
This is Terry Bayer.
The story in Wisconsin is not unlike we've shared with you on other states where we've identified higher costs and premium shortfalls.
So we embarked on a plan there to renegotiate primarily our hospital contracts which are major driver of cost to beef up our utilization management efforts.
We brought our behavioral health management in-house in late summer and we began to see improvement there.
And finally we presented our case to the state of Wisconsin and worked with them very closely to obtain a rate increase that took us in the right direction.
So it's very basic.
It's not completely over the hill.
We've got continuing work to do there on all of those fronts on rates as well as on utilization management but we're in better shape now than we were a year ago.
Did that help? We'll move on to our next question coming from the line of Michael Baker from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us a sense for how the flu progressed during the fourth quarter and post the quarter how it's trending in the first quarter.
Sure.
I think we tried to scope out and put about -- I think it was $5 million is what we attribute to flu cost during the fourth quarter.
As the flu sort of moved out West we're seeing a bit of a ramp up in January.
But again nothing very significant nothing materially significant I would say.
Our next question today comes from the line of Carl McDonald from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask the EBITDA to pre-tax question again.
It looks like the -- to make the numbers work assuming that investment income and interest expense are roughly stable you'd need to see an increase in the D&amp;A from $64 million this year to over $100 million in '13.
Is that the expectation? No that's not the expectation.
I'll have to take a look at that Carl.
I'll have to take a look at that.
Our next question today comes from the line of Scott Green from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions if we're allowed to ask more than 1.
First is on the Texas MLR.
You talked about 89 being a good base.
I'd appreciate your perspective if you've had any communications with the state leading you to believe there might be some sort of off-cycle either rate increase? I know you're in Hidalgo STAR and Santino has talked about higher cost there.
Or maybe some decrease in Hidalgo STAR+PLUS based on changes in your member mix? No we're not anticipating any off-cycle rate changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And secondly last month you hired a new plan president in New Mexico.
Is there any -- does that demonstrate your confidence in being able to win that RFP rebid? Well Scott we need a plan president there whether we win the RFP or not.
So that had nothing to do with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly I had a question on duals.
If you've been working in any of your markets to expand your provider network to incorporate maybe more Medicare providers I was curious if you were able to contract with them on a unit-cost basis that's equivalent to the Medicare fee schedule or maybe lower or maybe higher? Scott this is Terry Bayer.
We already operate Special Needs plans in the markets where we are expanding our duals except for Illinois which is new.
So we have not had any need yet to change any of our reimbursement methodology than what we've experienced in the past.
Our next question today comes from the line of Peter Costa from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Curious about the status of the subcontracting arrangements for the California Coordinated Care duals program between you and other health plans have you signed any of those contracts at this point whether you as a subcontractor or subcontractors to you and your regions? Yes that's a very interesting question.
We have a subcontract relationship in Los Angeles County for the Medicaid program.
We have not signed any new or additional contracts with HealthNet and we're all waiting for further information on how the program is going to roll out in California.
So until we have more information there's not much to add to that other than things remain status quo.
LLC Research Division</strong> We're getting kind of close to when we would expect to have actually sort of this all taken care of and understanding rates and rolling the program out.
Do you believe at this point the contracting will look similar to the way the contracts have been for the typical Medicaid business? Or do you think that there'll be substantial changes? Well I think the first thing we have to see is what the contract between -- for the 3 party agreements going to look like between the state the federal government and the health plans and we haven't received that yet.
So until we know more about what the underlying contract looks like I think it's too early to say what subcontracts will look like.
But we imagine it's going to simply be an extension of our current agreement with HealthNet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 last question if you don't mind.
Can you talk about the Florida long-term care bids? And you were invited to negotiate and didn't end up agreeing with the state.
Can you describe what exactly caused you to not agree with the state? Do you think that that will have any implications for your ability to win Florida business down the road in terms of the TANF business when that is moved to managed care if that's moved to managed care? Those are under protest right now and so we can't comment.
LLC Research Division</strong> You won't even discuss what exactly the issues are around your protest? At this point because the protest is ongoing we don't want to comment any further.
Our next question today comes from the line of Matt Borsch from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Sam Wass on for Matt.
I was wondering if you could give any comments on rate negotiations for your duals contracts in Illinois and Ohio.
I was particularly interested in any sort of savings assumptions that might be factored in.
Well we have seen some preliminary numbers and I think it's safe to say that consistent with what we have said in the past and what we have seen from that -- the savings assumptions are going to be on the order of 1% to 2% in the first year of the program.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Sarah James.
Research Division</strong> Continuing on my earlier question of California MLR you guys mentioned that there was a 5 000 member exit.
So what product were those in? What was MLR running on that book so we can get an idea of how it may have skewed the fourth quarter as opposed to really the run rate? We exited a region in the northern part of Los Angeles County and the medical costs there were high in large part because there's only a single hospital in the region and we've had a great deal of difficulty as have other health plans in negotiating with them.
This is an ongoing problem in -- especially in rural areas with the Medicaid program.
And I hope that in the future we'll get more support from the government both in terms of the states and perhaps looking at antitrust issues to prevent certain hospitals from holding health plans hostage.
But we had no choice but to exit that region as a result.
Research Division</strong> But no specific amount that you're willing to talk about about how it may have skewed your fourth quarter MLR or what MLR they were running at? We're not going to get into that level of detail.
Research Division</strong> Then another membership question.
In Ohio you guys had a 28 000-member loss because of eligibility errors or changes.
Can you just remind us what that was? And if there's any premium give back associated with that? It's Joe speaking.
The state had some issues with eligibility that first started surfacing I think around July and August.
They spent a couple of months fixing it and they've gotten it fixed now.
While there might be a little bit of true-up back and forth it won't be material at this stage.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from the line of Chris Rigg from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I did want to follow up on the G&amp;A expense.
What is the onetime in there? Maybe I missed it but just some more detail would be helpful.
Yes the G&amp;A we had a number of settlement issues.
They are onetime in nature.
They're about $14 million and we don't expect those things to recur.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And what's behind the $14 million? Some litigations prior settlements.
Some of this goes back to 2011.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So it's a bunch of little things or is there 1 charge that makes up a majority of it? No it's a number of little things I mean if you can call $14 million little.
But it's a number of little things.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Right right.
And then on the Texas -- obviously that's a fairly big number.
And I know obviously it takes time in the claims submittal process to see where things shake out but I guess is there anything -- I guess what led to sort of the big favorable adjustment in the fourth quarter relative to Q2 and Q3? Well we were pretty conservative in Q2 and Q3 when we did our IBNR reserves.
And I think what happened is the changes we made to provider contracts and to some of the utilization management caused those trends to go down faster than what our actuaries predicted and so that's what the big delta was for.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last follow-up on the guidance and I know you guys are trying to not talk about it too much but is it primarily on the D&amp;A side or is there an assumption there on the interest side in terms of raising some money you're earning that that might be worth highlighting? And we'll leave it at that.
No we've talked about a big ramp up that we're going to be experiencing over the next 3 years.
And so that's what you're seeing in the D&amp;A.
There's nothing in there in terms of interest expense et cetera.
We'll have to talk off-line with people who are having issues getting their -- the model essentially envisions about $20 million of increased depreciation expense over 2012.
So I'll have to talk to you about why they're sort of struggling to get to our number.
And at this time we have no further questions registered.
I'll turn the call back to Dr.
Molina.
Well thank you everyone.
We appreciate you joining our call.
It's been a good quarter and we look forward to seeing you in February on the 21st in New York for our Investor Day.
And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded Thursday April 25 2013.
I will now turn the conference call over to Juan José Orellana VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you George.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2013.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of April 25 2013 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by the securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion today.
We're very pleased with our performance during the first quarter of 2013.
The improved financial performance we achieved in the second half of last year carried over into 2013 as we continued to make improvements to our core operations.
John will be addressing our financial results in greater details during his remarks.
But first I'm going to talk about a number of positive developments that bear noting.
Let's begin with the quick review of events that have taken place since our Investor Day in February.
On the dual eligible front highly-anticipated memorandums of understanding or MOUs were signed for Medicare and Medicaid programs in both California and Illinois.
Including the MOU in Ohio this brings to 3 the number of Medicare and Medicaid MOU signed in Molina markets.
Intensive efforts are underway across the company as we prepare to serve the new members that these programs will bring.
All 3 MOUs have aggregate savings targets at or very close to the CMS rate setting process guidance of 1% in year 1; 3% in year 2; and 5% in year 3.
This guidance confirms that the CMS commitment to the success of the Medicare and Medicaid programs by preventing overly aggressive savings targets.
Now I will discuss some of the specifics regarding each state's Medicare and Medicaid program.
California's implementation of its program now called CAL-Medi-Connect will start no earlier than October 2013.
Implementation involves a 12-month phase-in period and passive enrollment of Medicare but it does not include an initial lock-in period suggesting that Medicare beneficiaries will be able to opt out of the program or switch out plans at any time.
As a reminder the enrollment in managed care for the Medicaid portion of the benefits in our markets is expected to be mandatory.
While the absence of the lock-in period may result in short-term variability in enrollment the 12-month phase-in should produce a more orderly implementation by avoiding a one-time major influx of patients and providing more time to educate patients about the new program.
As a reminder the long-term revenue projections that we shared at our last Investor Day assumed that our California health plan will participate in Medicare and Medicaid contracts in San Diego Riverside and San Bernardino counties.
Molina currently holds a primary Medicaid contract in each of these counties where 329 -- I'm sorry 392 000 total eligibles reside.
In Ohio we will participate in that state's Medicare-Medicaid program in the Southwest West Central and Central regions where approximately 48 000 dual eligibles reside and where we will compete with one other health plan in each region.
Dual Eligible beneficiaries will be able to voluntarily enroll beginning in early June with coverage starting September 1 2013.
After this initial voluntary enrollment period Ohio will begin passively enrolling dual eligibles in the plans.
The schedule for passive enrollment will vary by region with the Southwest region beginning on November 1 2013; and Central as well as West Central starting on December 1 2013.
Beneficiaries can opt out prior to the passive enrollment and may change plans or opt out of the demonstration at any time.
In Illinois Medicare-Medicaid plan passive enrollment is expected to begin October of 2013 with an effective date of January 2014.
As discussed at our most recent Investor Day we will be serving the Central Illinois region that has 18 000 dual eligible beneficiaries and we will compete in that market with one other health plan.
Dual eligible beneficiaries will be able to voluntarily enroll for the first 3 months from October to the end of December.
Program implementation also includes a 6-month phase-in passive Medicare enrollment period that includes monthly caps on enrollment.
Under the passive enrollment mechanism beneficiaries will be automatically assigned the plans by the state unless they opt out of the demonstration.
Beneficiaries will always have the option to opt out of the demonstration or select an alternative health plan.
Our Illinois award also includes extending Medicaid managed care to 13 000 aged blind and disabled beneficiaries in Central Illinois as well as 7 000 eligible beneficiaries in East St.
Louis.
Our Illinois ABD contracts are slated to begin ahead of the duals with expected dates of June 2013 in Central Illinois and July 2013 in East St.
Louis.
Of course as we have experienced across various state Medicare programs the dates are always subject to change and can sometimes be extended.
With these significant expansions fast approaching the decision to raise $550 million in convertible debt in February gives us added comfort that we have additional resources to manage through a period of strong growth.
We are now better positioned to fund extra requirements and to manage to the temporary pent-up demands and higher medical costs that we may experience while transitioning fee-for-service patients into managed care.
Another recent development involving our fiscal agent services business in Louisiana.
As you may recall in 2011 we received notice that the state intended to award the contract for replacement Medicaid Management Information System or MMIS to a different vendor.
However in March of this year the State of Louisiana canceled its contract award to that vendor.
That vendor is currently challenging the contract cancellation.
The state has informed us that we will continue to perform under the current contract until the successor is named.
Subject to the pending challenge it is currently uncertain when a new RFP will be issued and if so when the award will become effective.
If a new RFP is issued we intend to participate.
In the meantime we will continue supporting the state during this period of transition and we'll closely monitor any developments on this front.
Now let's turn to the results of our core health plan business.
As I mentioned earlier the operational results were strong across the health plans and we continue to see improvements despite difficult market conditions in Texas and Wisconsin.
At our Texas health plan we are pleased to have achieved our stated goal to reach financial breakeven by the end of the fourth quarter of 2012.
However I would like to caution investors that given a variety of problematic changes in Texas over the past year profitability between the first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 is difficult.
By problematic changes I'm referring to managed care expansions rate adjustments and benefit carve-ins that we have highlighted during our previous calls.
Now looking ahead in Texas we believe that the stabilization of that business now enables us to better understand the distribution of services.
As a result we will increase payments to personal attendant services and day activity and health services providers effective July 1 2013.
John will talk about expected financial impact of this increase on our projected 2013 results.
Last quarter we talked about our progress in improving the financial performance of our Wisconsin health plan.
We are cautiously optimistic that our Wisconsin health plan is indeed turning the corner.
Contracting efforts and a small rate increase that became effective in July have led to improved financial performance.
Our membership has grown from approximately 46 000 members at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012 to approximately 86 000 members at the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Member growth is primarily in Milwaukee and surrounding counties stemming from UnitedHealthcare's exit from the Southeast Wisconsin.
And at this point it is too early to say what the impact of the additional membership will be on our Wisconsin health plan performance.
Additionally we experienced improved financial performance in this quarter at our Florida and our Ohio health plans.
On another front I'm pleased to announce that we've expanded the size of our Board of Directors at Molina from 8 to 11 members and added Steve James Daniel Cooperman and Dale Wolf as new independent non-executive directors.
Steve James is a former audit partner with Ernst &amp; Young with 30 years of experience providing accounting auditing and consulting services to health and managed care companies.
Daniel Cooperman is an attorney with the law firm of Bingham McCutchen.
He has served as a Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary at both Apple and Oracle.
Finally Dale Wolf served as Executive Chairman of Correctional Healthcare Companies.
He also previously served as Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Coventry Health Care.
We welcome Steve Daniel and Dale and look forward to their contributions.
In summary during the first quarter we solidified the progress we made during the second half of 2012.
We strengthened our capital position and we continue to prepare for the opportunities and challenges of the next several years.
I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and good afternoon everyone.
Today we reported net income of $30 million or $0.64 per diluted share compared to $0.39 per diluted share reported in the first quarter of 2012.
We are also increasing our previously issued guidance to reflect improvements in anticipated earnings per diluted share from $1.45 earnings per diluted share to $1.55 for 2013.
I will come back to guidance after reviewing the results for the quarter.
Overall premium revenue grew to $1.5 billion representing a 17% increase over the first quarter of 2012 mainly due to a shift in member mix resulting from the growth in our aged blind and disabled or ABD programs which generate higher premium revenue per member.
Pharmacy benefit expansion at the Utah health plan and the inclusion of inpatient and pharmacy benefits at our Texas health plan also contributed to our revenue growth.
Medical costs were higher during the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to the shift in patient mix associated with the growth in our ABD patients as well as the benefit expansions that resulted in higher revenue in Texas and Utah.
More importantly our medical care ratio decreased to 86% when compared to 88% in the first quarter of 2012.
The main drivers for the decrease in medical care ratio included retroactive rate increases for the California health plan and increased margins at the Texas health plan as well as stable inpatient utilization.
As it relates to rate adjustments in California you will recall from previous conference calls that we've been reserving a portion of premiums received every month since July 2011 for the premium impact of the provider cuts called for by California Assembly Bill 97.
This quarter we received confirmation from the State of California that it would not be seeking to recover those amounts.
As a result we recognized premium revenue previously reserved at the California health plan which contributed approximately $18 million to pretax income or $0.24 per diluted share related to 2012 and 2011 periods of service.
In Texas although the quarter reflects significant improvements to margins compared to last year a year-over-year comparison is made difficult by significant programmatic changes implemented by the state.
Among these changes were the expansion of Medicaid managed care into newer higher-cost regions; the extension of inpatient and pharmacy benefits carved into health plans; and a 4% rate increase which was effective September 2012.
All of these changes occurred after the first quarter of 2012 but before year-end.
During the first quarter of 2013 we also recognized 2 out-of-period accounting adjustments that resulted in a lower reported medical care ratio from the Texas health plan.
First there was a $6 million out-of-period benefit related to performance measures for fiscal year 2012.
Second a $14 million benefit from favorable development of claims liability established for the health plan at December 31 2012.
Absent these adjustments our medical care ratio in Texas would have been approximately 86.6%.
General and administrative expenses were flat quarter-over-quarter.
However as Mario mentioned the company issued $550 million of cash convertible senior notes in February of 2013.
The coupon on these notes is 1 1/8%.
The issuance resulted in a recognition during Q1 of approximately $6 million in debt issuance fees recorded as part of interest expense.
The remainder of those issuance fees will be expensed over the 7-year life of the notes.
In addition to providing greater flexibility on statutory equity requirements issuance of the convertible notes also provides a payoff vehicle for our convertible notes issued in 2007 which mature in 2014.
As of March 31 2013 the company had cash and investments of approximately $1.6 billion.
Our parent company had cash and investments of approximately $450 million.
As I mentioned earlier in light of our strong first quarter results the company is increasing its previously issued guidance from $1.45 to $1.55 in diluted EPS.
We believe the increase to our 2013 guidance of $0.10 per diluted share is a reasonable estimate in response the positive operating improvements we're seeing across-the-board balanced by other factors that we anticipate will affect us during the last 3 quarters of the year.
These factors include an increase in payment to certain providers in Texas that Mario mentioned and higher performance-based equity compensation.
As Mario mentioned we will be increasing payments to certain providers in Texas effective July 1 2013.
We expect these payments will increase medical costs during the second half of 2013 by approximately $10 million or $0.13 per share.
Like we discussed in our proxy statement the company will be increasing its performance-based equity compensation.
As a result we expect to incur approximately $13 million or $0.17 per diluted share of additional performance-based compensation.
We believe that performance-based equity grants better align management with a long-term interest of investors.
Again both the payment of the increases in Texas and the performance-based equity compensation are included in our revisions to guidance of $1.55 EPS as we are -- now have better visibility into those items.
However there are still a few items that are excluded from guidance.
For example we have also noted that certain administrative costs associated with membership growth related to the Affordable Care Act in various state duals initiatives were not included in our original or our revised 2013 guidance.
Guidance still excludes these costs due to a lack of current visibility and so the size of membership and the exact timing of the expected dual enrollment start dates.
As we learn more we will update.
We also anticipate that at some point in the near future we will reach resolution with the California Department of Health Care Services on our other rate disputes in California associated with premium rates dating back to 2003 and 2004.
However we currently do not have enough information to predict the financial impact of any settlement.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ralph Giacobbe.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a first real quick one.
Just to be clear in terms of the guidance of $1.55 is that going off the assumption of the $0.64 number in 1Q? Yes it is Ralph.
And again what we wanted to do here is provide a balance for a better underlying operating results some one-time benefits and some of the additional charges that we know are coming in for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I just wanted to -- I was hoping you could help me deal with some more context around the Texas provider payments.
Some more details on exactly who that's going to and just the rationale around that.
This is Terry Bayer.
We are making a payment adjustment in the form of an increase to both the traditional caregiver providers the personal attendant services and then the adult day health.
Those are the 2 categories chiefly.
There may be some additional homecare providers as we go through the details.
And the rationale is simply a better understanding of our underlying service bases and the cost structure on the plan.
Last year we were hit with a significant enrollment when we first started out and we wanted to be very cautious as to how we spent the revenue we were given by the state.
And as the rate increase came in and our experience gained we were able to make an increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could sneak one more in.
Maybe just an update on where you stand in terms of the exchanges how much you would expect to participate? How your negotiation with providers is going and the rate you expect to get? Well Ralph this is Mario.
We do intend to participate in exchanges in those states where we have Medicaid contracts.
We're making good progress.
I think the provider contracting is going fairly well.
And we anticipate being ready to participate in those programs on time.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask the same question just maybe getting back to Terry on the Texas providers.
So I understand you have a better understanding of your cost structure and you got the rate increases.
But what's the business rationale? Were you having trouble keeping docs in the network? And were there access issues or why -- sort of why not just wait until I don't know the end of the year or something for annual negotiation? Josh this is Mario.
It's a combination of things.
First of all as we have a better understanding in the patterns of utilization now we can see where the costs are.
The other problem is that in some of those -- in some cases we are actually paying providers more than what they would've been paid under Medicaid.
So we're trying to come back to a more rational payment system that more fairly compensates the providers for what they're doing and aligns with traditional patterns.
So it's really a function of the experience that we've gained over the past year.
We have plenty of providers.
In fact I think we probably have more homecare providers now than we did a year ago so getting more contractors has not been a problem.
Research Division</strong> So is it more you were denying certain requests for home health and now you're expecting a higher level of utilization of those services and that's what that's selling to or...
No I think it's more the case of getting it all rightsized.
Again as I pointed out in some cases we're actually pretty providers too much; other providers may have been paid too little.
Now that we see where the actual utilization is we can adjust the payments accordingly and that's what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess next question any progress in terms of discussions with the state in California around a potential deal sort of like what HealthNet did with their Medicaid program.
Yes.
Our next meeting to negotiate with the state is scheduled in about 3 weeks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you would expect -- is that meeting in terms of you would expect some resolution at that point? Or is that just another in the series of meetings? I think we're very close to getting a resolution.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And just last question.
On MMIS I know it's a tough quarter in the fourth quarter.
Do you guys have an operating income number for that segment in the first quarter? I know you don't break it out in the press release anymore.
It's Joe speaking.
You can lift it from -- it was what we expected pretty much.
You can lift it from the -- you can lift it from the income statement.
It's a revenue of about $50 million expense of $40 million so about a $10 million operating revenue.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So that's actually a lot...
Observing the service revenue percentage.
Research Division</strong> So that's a lot better then right? I mean I think you guys had $8 million or so last year in the first quarter and then $0.5 million or so in the fourth quarter and so sequentially were up to $10 million? Well fourth quarter remember was hit by a lot of -- fourth quarter was hit by a lot of one-time charges.
I think overall we're expecting if you were to remove those fourth -- and we went through this in guidance in New York if you were to remove those fourth quarter charges from 2012 we're going to see a little bit lower performance in 2013 just getting some contract changes.
But it's suffice to say it's moving along just like we expected when we gave guidance back in February.
Our next question comes from Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I hate to keep going back to this but I'm still just a little bit confused about the voluntary payment increase in Texas.
So I'm just wondering if this is just a straight-up unit price increase for what you're paying per hour.
Or if maybe there is a shift to a different cost structure here like a flat per week or per month that you think in the long run will benefit you.
And I guess what I'm trying to get at from that is also if it is just hourly increase if you're going to see these personal attendants starting to persuade the people they care for to switch over to Molina and if that may drive some sort of negative selection.
Well again this is about paying the providers correctly based on the utilization of services that we're seeing in the distribution.
And I don't think that we expect to see any shifts in the patient population.
Likewise I don't expect to see much of a change in our provider network.
I think this really reflects having a year's worth of data under our belts.
And I think that we made some incorrect assumptions initially when we started paying the claims and we were able to correct those.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And could you guys update us on the impact of the Medicare risk model update? And how do you see that impacting your payments? On Medicare? With the current? Sarah just sort of flesh out that a little bit more.
You mean in terms of the sequestration cuts? Or just in general Medicare advantage pricing? Research Division</strong> In the updates to the risk scores United had talked about it being maybe 200 basis points based on their book.
WellPoint had said it was closer to -- or sorry United is 250 and WellPoint 200.
So I know it hits every company different based on what the risk scores of your book is and what the health conditions are.
So if you guys could just talk a little bit about how you're seeing it working through based on...
Well let me just back up.
We're not prepared to really quote any direct impact from risk scores.
There were some cuts to the Medicare rates by -- as a cause of sequestration and we have passed those onto the providers.
That's separate.
Now when you start talking about risk scores we are still submitting additional information to CMS and waiting for information that we will receive sometime in June which will reset our rates considering our risk course.
That'll be a retro back to January and then going forward from July.
But we don't yet have the results from our more recent submissions.
And by that I mean we seek additional information from the medical records to ensure that we've appropriately documented the diagnoses.
We get them into CMS and then they award us associated revenue.
Our next question comes from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The California subcontractor relationships that exist between yourselves and other Medicaid plans have you furthered the conversations with those regarding the duals if that will carry to the dual eligibles? Where does that stand at this point? That issue is currently is ongoing.
LLC Research Division</strong> So there's no further view on your part as to whether that will continue or not? Not at this point.
We're not prepared to comment any further at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the settlement with California.
One of your competitors has already done that settlement and then gave them a rate going forward.
You talked about settlement regarding historical issues.
Do you expect to be paid any amount historically? Or do you think that'll all be resolved more or less in a rate structure going forward? It's our -- this is John.
It's our assumption that the State of California is going to want all the settlements to be on the same construct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And given that they already have that and have for some time now almost 2 quarters now with one of your competitor plans what is the holdup? Do you perceive their contract to be somehow not as good as what you're looking for? Or does the state want to give you a different contract for some reason? What exactly is the holdup at this point? I think the biggest holdup is that there's an awful lot of stuff going on right now at the Department of Health Care Services trying to do Medicaid expansion moving with a bunch of the -- to shift members into the Medicaid program trying to get duals off.
So it's more of a factor that they've got a lot of competing priorities then there's any adverse discussions going on with us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a last question if you don't mind.
Help me out with the math a little bit on the fees on the debt going forward.
$6 million this quarter just a straight 1 1/8% would be like $1.5 million in future quarters.
But I know there are some fees and other things that affect the actual expense line.
Can you help us understand impact quarterly? It's Joe speaking Peter.
We recall the expenses on the offering were about $16.5 million or $17 million.
There's a proration of those expenses between the convert and the elements of the call spread.
That pro-debt that's proration.
What is assigned to the call spread gets expensed immediately which is why we mentioned that calling at about $6 million of expenses tied into the -- for fees for the first quarter.
So the remaining $11 million -- $10 million to $11 million or so were amortized pro rata over the life of the notes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
That's the only other impact to -- besides the interest itself? Correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question just if you have any updates you can give us on how the conversations are proceeding with the states around the industry tax for 2014 and feedback from the states on how they plan to build that into the rates.
Obviously there's already been a lot of focus on Florida with that but just interested if any of your other states has given you any feedback yet so far.
This is Mario.
We have not gotten a lot of feedback on that issue but I think that perhaps the best piece of information we have is a letter that was written by the Republican Governors Association acknowledging that this is a tax that's going to affect state Medicaid programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just wanted to return just to the Medicare question I think that Sarah had asked.
And I think Terry you talked a little bit about the 2013 impacts.
But just interested if you've been able to do the analysis the company's been able to do analysis yet on the proposed change to the risk adjustment model the HCC model that starts in 2014 with the 75% phase-in just given particularly some feedback that's been out in the industry about those changes to the risk adjustment model having a more significant impact on higher acuity members with higher frailty.
So just interested if you're thinking there could be a more significant impact to Medicare SNP plans granted though that Medicare is a pretty small amount of your overall revenue.
You're right.
Right now Medicare is a smaller portion of our revenue and we're still looking at what we think the projected impact will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just last question.
Can you break out what the revenues are that you're accruing from the Louisiana MIS contract? Just interested in what the overall mix of revenues from that contract is relative to the total MIS book.
I think it's around $35 million a year.
Our next question comes from Carl McDonald from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> To help with the -- just understanding the run rate in the first quarter.
Was there any impact from the flu? I know it didn't have much of a hit in the fourth quarter.
It's Joe speaking.
Certainly the external indicators indicate that flu was more prevalent in our parts at least in our states.
I won't say our markets.
We saw more TAMIFLU utilization.
But overall we just didn't see anything this quarter that would indicate it was anything out the normal in terms of the flu season.
We haven't quantified anything for the simple reason we haven't seen any indication there's a whole lot abnormal to quantify.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it's a smaller market for you but you talked about in Utah a 16% rate increase.
The loss ratio in the market certainly picked up a little bit in the first quarter but not nearly as much as what a 16% rate cut would imply.
So just be interested in whether that cut didn't go through to the full effect or if you were able to offset the bulk of it and if so how? Well there's a lot to -- it's Joe speaking.
There's -- bear in mind there's a lot of factors in Utah beyond that Medicaid rate cut which was -- it was a cut of 16%.
Utah has a high percentage of Medicare membership.
Among our states it's the highest with Medicare membership selectivity.
And that Medicare business is going to be factored into the MCR you've seen in the financials.
We also have a pretty strong a pretty hard CHIP product there it's a pretty strong CHIP membership.
And lastly we had the pharmacy benefit carved in this year.
And then we relay onto that I think the team there has done some very good work with patient care that has positively impacted both patient care and medical costs.
So I think you have to look at the context of all of those other factors there.
And it was a 16% cut but it's -- when you layer it with 3 or 4 other factors it ameliorated that in the consolidated results.
Our next question comes from Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could update us with respect to your strategy around behavioral health management in light of over time you addressing or managing the duals.
Trying to get a better sense for whether that will vary market by market if there are plans at this point to insource some of the capability.
Just trying to get a general sense of your thoughts on that part of the business.
This is Terry.
Yes we are insourcing our behavioral health management.
And over time we've been doing that for a number of years as contracts with outside vendors expired.
We have recently hired a new physician leader for our behavioral health initiatives company-wide.
And we have an overall philosophy on the integration of behavioral and physical health as well as extensive community-based social support system.
So that's the overall philosophy.
It will be tweaked state-by-state because there are varying state regulations that often play into the fold as well as an incorporation of the pharmacy benefit.
So in general insourced and same philosophy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So can you give us a sense on which markets are still outsourced? No.
And we don't want to provide that level of detail.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess it sounds like California I think gave the plans the dual rates a couple of days ago.
I don't know if you had any initial views on those rates.
And we received the rates night before last.
We're still analyzing them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's too early to have any kind of initial view on it? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess you mentioned that the California settlement the prior period fortunately had some costs associated with it.
But then you mentioned an ongoing $400 000 benefit per month to premium.
Are there any costs associated with that? Or is that a good number to think about as a net number as well? It's Joe speaking.
There'll be a small number of costs associated with that but very small.
So we'll keep 80% or 90% of that amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then this $0.06 performance bonus related to Texas.
So it sounds like Texas has changed the methodology for performance bonus for 2012.
Is that change going to maintain in 2013? Therefore is there a view that that $0.06 is now recurring? Or are you kind of booking that more normally going forward? No the state -- it's Joe speaking.
The state changed the metrics in 2013.
So this will have no impact in 2013.
Research Division</strong> No impact in 2013.
Okay.
And then any update on the Medicaid-Medicare parity for physicians? How are you incorporating that in your guidance? And did that have an impact on your numbers? You mean that program that went into effect on January 1? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No.
No update yet.
We're still waiting for the states to give us guidance on how to pay that and get those state plan amendments done.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that supposed to be a net neutral to you? Or is there an impact either way? It should be more or less neutral to us although because we have to staff model clinics there may be some positive impact because as we employ these physicians some of that money will remain with the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just trying to understand the 2 data points that you mentioned as headwinds to the guidance for this year.
So if I think about that the Texas provider rate increase I guess that's about $0.13 this year.
But I guess it will be $0.26 for the full year next year? Is that the right way to think about that? All things being equal that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Is there any thought that your paying them more might result in a better rate increase prospectively and that the net number for next year might be less than the annualized second half of this year? I don't think so.
I think the rates are going to be based on utilization and based on risk adjustments.
So I don't think paying the providers more is necessarily going to lead to us getting a greater rate increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as the executive incentive comp number it sounded like that only was in place for March.
So that $13 million which might be $0.16 $0.17 that number is going to be more like $16 million next -- for the full year next year? It probably depends on when the performance measures are met.
And let's face it if the performance measures are met that means we're doing a great job with our -- executing our strategic plan.
So let's hope that gets fully expensed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess all else equals I mean assuming you hit it this year and next year the number next year will be about $3 million higher than the number this year? Well it's Joe speaking.
Those -- the compensation committee the company revisits those measures and that compensation every year.
So it's a little bit premature to speculate on what that would mean for next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Wright [ph] with Monte Press [ph].
Real quick.
And I apologize if I may have missed this.
But the midyear RSA proposed rate increase in Texas is that included in the numbers? Or are you going to benefit from that at all? There was a slight adjustment to our rates Brian but for the most part those were targeted at service areas that we don't participate in.
So nothing for Hidalgo then? We're not expecting to see much of a rate increase as a result no.
Our next question comes from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I believe that you're continuing to not include in guidance an amount of admin spend to prepare for what I think is Medicaid expansion 2014.
I guess I wonder a couple of things: one what elements of visibility are you still waiting to get to be able to quantify that; and then two is that essentially an onboarding expense that would be somewhat one-time? Or is that a step-up to a higher level of expense for an admin standpoint for that amount? This is John.
If you recall with our Investor Day we sort of broke our rate in this class into a couple of buckets.
One was just the basic infrastructure that we've got to do regardless.
That's setting up the new benefit packages and the IT systems getting the provider contracts written for things like exchanges et cetera.
And then the other piece was that variable piece really tied to the membership increases.
And it's a latter piece that we don't have great visibility on yet with respect to some of the Medicaid expansions some of the exchanges or insurance market prices and some with the duals.
And these are programs that we think will take flight in 2014.
But in a number of our states: Texas; Florida; Ohio; Michigan we don't know as of today what the Medicaid expansion is going to look like.
We don't know if they're going to be ready to start marketing their insurance marketplace in October.
So we have the basic infrastructure piece but it's the variable piece that the additional employees that we have to hire to handle a membership that we don't quite know yet.
And as soon as we get some information on when these programs are expected to start and how many people they're expecting to cover we can then adjust our guidance and give you folks additional information.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so your description that answers the second part of my question which is that should be an ongoing expense.
Once you ramp that up that will be in place to service that higher membership.
Correct.
But it will be ramped up because of the higher membership.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
Coming back to just earnings and wanting to make sure I understand and reconcile some of the pieces.
So in the first quarter the $0.64 relative to Street 25 am I right that about $0.24 is California retro rate? Texas retro is about $0.08? And then on the flip side your additional carrying costs for debt are about $0.08 as well? Is that pretty close? Yes.
I've articulated the main sort of one-time items in the quarter.
However as you've listened to our calls we're really hesitant just to focus on a few one-time items.
There's lots of stuff happening in the business up and down that we don't point out.
So that's why we hate to just look at a quarter isolation and say "That's a run rate." That's a point not a run rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question on the -- just right back on the earnings trajectory.
The $0.08 that you referenced wasn't that already reflected in the Investor Day guidance when you brought -- when you did the new debt issuance? Maybe...
I'm sorry it's Joe the $0.08 a portion of it was yes.
We fine-tuned our calculation of expense for the year and I think there's about a -- I think expense recognition for the year is going to be about $3 million $2 million or $3 million more than we anticipated back in New York.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I get it.
I get it.
Because it just looks like your outlook for the back 9 months is maybe somewhat conservative in light of some of the margin improvement that you're seeing.
And I know you're not giving quarterly guidance but I mean is the trajectory going to be sort of $0.20 $0.30 $0.40 as we look ahead? Or is it going to be less sloped? This is John Matt.
Again we had -- we've had a good first quarter.
I think the last 2 quarters what we're seeing is the operational improvements taking hold a bit faster than we anticipated.
But the last thing we want to do is start to run ahead of ourselves.
And so you know how volatile this business is so we tried to paint a nice middle path until we get another quarter to it under our belts.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
That makes sense.
And coming back to the additional provider payments in the back half with -- am I correct in sort of understanding that what you're taking a longer-term view here and you're saying you had these providers who were making up for a very low or let's say on the low side unit payments by making it up on volume if you will.
And you're bringing them into a program where they're doing volume in a more appropriate level and you want to pay them more per unit? Is that correct or partly correct? Well if you recall last year we made some cuts to the provider payments for the personal attendant services and the day healthcare services.
And we also -- so we are restoring some of those cuts but it's not an exact restoration because the increase in payments is going to more closely match the distribution of the utilization of services.
When we set up our payments last year we made certain assumptions about the utilization of services which turned out not to be correct.
Now that we have a better picture of the pattern of utilization we are increasing the payments to the providers to reflect the services they're providing.
So it is an increase in unit cost but it's also a change in the distribution of utilization in connection with that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And I guess the last question.
Anything to note on the longer-term growth pipeline that may have changed from the Investor Day view? No I don't think so.
We continue to think that there is a good opportunity for growth in these Medicare-Medicaid contracts.
We think there will be some expansion to Medicaid.
It's become more complicated now with the politics that are involved with governors proposing to increase enrollment and legislators pushing back with this concept of the Arkansas experiment which we are not in Arkansas and we're not sure how widely that will be adopted.
But overall we still feel confident about the opportunities and the numbers that we've quoted and we're feeling more comfortable about exchanges as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to the guidance for a second and the other revision here.
And I apologize if I missed it.
But there is sort of 5 major items that you guys piped down.
The AB 97 of the Texas performance base change the Texas PPD then the Texas provider payment in the performance-based comp.
Can you -- what was in the prior guidance and what's new? The California ABD increase was in guidance.
We just didn't have a really good specifically quarterly we didn't have it specified in any particular quarter.
The increase in the equity comp was not in.
The increase in the Texas provider rates was not in.
And the -- what was that? I think the performance...
I think the performance was not in.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So California was in and basically everything else was not? Correct.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess outside Texas is there any notable development? Was there any notable development in the quarter? Outside Texas? LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes.
Prior to the development? LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes.
No no it was pretty consistent.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess last question somewhat philosophical and then also quantitative in a way.
I guess when we think about the California duals I guess sort of philosophically I mean not being able to sort of mandate the Medicare side of the payment does that at all change sort of the attractiveness of the market meaning that you have less ability to sort of manage the overall costs? And then two if you exclude the Medicare portion what do you think that does to rates on a relative basis? I know you don't want to give a sort of specific numbers but does it drop the rates? How much percentage-wise? I love this.
So you're asking us to give you a philosophically quantitative answer.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Exactly.
The duals' opportunity in the counties that we're in in California is roughly almost 400 000 beneficiaries.
There's a huge opportunity.
Especially when you compare it to states like Ohio and Illinois where we're also participating.
So you see that California really dwarfs most other states and roughly 11% of all the duals in the country reside in California.
We have participated in this program as a Special Needs Plan.
We're the seventh largest Special Needs Plan in the country by enrollment.
And that has all been voluntary.
So no I don't think the fact that they're going to be able to opt out deters us in any way because enrollment in these plans as far as we're concerned has always been voluntary.
And so our goal is to try to convince the beneficiaries that there is a benefit to them to remain with us.
But we've always assumed that I think in our assumption about 40% to 50% were going to opt out.
So no I don't think it changes anything.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the latter part any way you can directionally sort of guide us if you're expecting $1 if you're getting both portions what that $1 would be if you're just getting the Caid component? No Chris.
We're still looking at that stuff.
Our last question comes from Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I jumped on late as well.
I apologize.
A question on Texas and the favorable development that you said related to the liability the claims liability that was established at the end of last year.
I guess just 2 questions on that.
Did all of that support first quarter earnings? And secondly how much remains on that reserve that you established for future periods? Okay.
So Tom you know how much we love to talk about reserves and roll-forwards.
$16 million was what we had accrued -- what we took in the income in Q1 based on the liability we established at 12/31.
So that whole $16 million benefited Q1.
What we didn't talk about and we have no way to know just yet is how much of excess reserves have we built in as we put in the reserves for Q1.
It's always a matter of taking excess out from the past periods and building up the current period.
So we don't know to what extent future periods will continue to have a prior-period development in Texas on a favorable basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm referring to this -- I'm referring to this [indiscernible] $5 million.
He's talking about the premium sufficiency reserve we took I think.
No no right.
It's Joe speaking.
I know -- John to confirm he's talking about payable prior-period development primes.
So Tom I can't do anything other than reiterate what John said.
It was certainly more favorable prior-period development that we typically see in the health plan hence we've called it out.
We try to set the reserves as accurately as possible every quarter.
So all things being equal there would be much less favorable development in future periods.
That was our last question.
I'll return the call back to you Mr.
Orellana for your closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us during today's call and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Circe.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2013.
The company's earnings release was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of July 25 2013 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion today.
We had a good second quarter.
We had revenue growth of 8% a medical care ratio that declined 830 basis points and net income from continuing operations that increased to $16 million up from a net loss of $33 million this period last year.
While the highlights for this quarter was the year-over-year improvement in Texas we have also benefited from improved operational performance at most of our health plans.
In fact the medical margin improved at all of our health plans except for California.
John will talk in more detail about our financial results during his remarks.
For now let's focus on growth.
We were pleased that the budget signed by California Governor Brown included funding to expand Medicaid coverage to more than $1 million low-income people in California.
The expansion is anticipated to begin in January of 2014 and as part of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
Funding the expansion confirms California's commitment to expanding Medicaid as well as Molina's opportunity for additional enrollment growth.
We see another opportunity for growth at our New Mexico health plan as we assume Lovelace Community Health Plan's contract for the New Mexico Medicaid Salud! program.
The agreement will facilitate the transition of Lovelace's Medicaid members to the Centennial Care Program in New Mexico a program in which Molina is 1 of 4 participating managed care organizations.
The transaction is expected to close August 1 2013 when Lovelace's Medicaid members will become members of Molina Healthcare.
The Centennial Care program is the new name for New Mexico's Medicaid program beginning January 1 2014 and will provide health care to about 735 000 New Mexico residents.
Lovelace currently serves approximately 84 000 Medicaid members while Molina's enrollment in the state this quarter was 92 000.
Next I would like to take a moment to talk about the latest information we have regarding the Dual Eligible programs in California Illinois and Ohio.
You're probably aware there are often delays associated with the implementation of new contracts or programs.
These delays are common.
And as we have seen across various state Medicaid programs the implementation dates are always subject to change.
In California the Dual Eligible demonstration program will now begin sometime on or after January 1 2014.
In Illinois the implementation for the Duals contract is January 1 2014.
In Ohio the Duals contract will start voluntary enrollment on March 1 2014.
We continue to make preparations to be ready to provide care for our future Dual Eligible members.
Preparations are also underway for additional expected future growth in California.
In May Covered California selected Molina Healthcare as 1 of 13 health plans that will participate in the state's new health benefit exchange program.
Molina Healthcare will participate in 4 counties where we currently operate as a health plan: Los Angeles San Diego Riverside and San Bernardino.
Our offering of marketplace plans is competitive in pricing and supported by a strong provider network.
We look forward to welcoming new members as well as ensuring continuity of care for our existing Medicaid members in the event that their eligibility changes requiring them to access health care through the marketplace.
The second quarter was another positive quarter for Molina Healthcare.
Our strategic and operational initiatives at the health plans have been successful as evidenced by the significant improvement that continued into this second quarter.
With half the year now behind us we are excited about the future and focusing our efforts on the pipeline of upcoming opportunities.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As Mario said the second quarter was a good quarter for us.
We can point to improved financial performance at 8 of our 9 health plans including a substantial turnaround in both Washington -- excuse me Wisconsin and Texas.
Before I go further though I'm going to help you better understand why we are now presenting results from continuing operations as a separate line item on our income statement.
Our Medicaid contract in Missouri expired June 30 2012 and effective June 30 2013 all transition obligations associated with that contract terminated.
We also abandoned our equity interest in the Missouri health plan during the second quarter.
We now present Missouri operations including the tax benefit of about $9.5 million that we recognized on the abandonment as discontinued operations.
Missouri operations have also been reclassified to discontinued operations for all prior periods.
The breakout of discontinued operations should make it easier for you to understand our financial performance.
Other than the tax benefit I mentioned there has been no material financial activity related to the Missouri health plan in 2013 nor do we expect there will be any material activity for the Missouri plan for the rest of the year.
The 2013 guidance we have shared with you during the year and the guidance we are sharing today has not included any impact from Missouri.
Therefore income from continuing operations is the best metric by which to measure our financial performance and is I believe consistent with how analysts have developed their models of our financial performance.
Thus our earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.34 is a good metric to measure against the net loss from continuing operations of $0.71 per diluted share in the second quarter of last year.
Let's look at the second quarter in more detail.
Premium revenue in the second quarter grew to $1.5 billion representing an 8% increase over the same period last year.
The increase in premium revenue was due to membership growth in Washington and Wisconsin and rate increases in Texas and Washington in the second half of 2012.
Our consolidated medical care ratio decreased to 86.2% in the second quarter of 2013 compared with 94.5% in the same period last year.
While margin improvement in Texas was significant stable inpatient utilization and lower pharmacy costs across the company were also important factors in our improved financial performance.
I want to point out that 7 of our 9 health plans had lower medical care ratios in the second quarter of 2013 than in the second quarter of 2012 and 8 of our 9 health plans had higher medical margins in 2013 than in 2012.
As Mario mentioned our success in the other health plans has not been matched in California.
While performance in California has been helped by a retroactive rate increase that we recognized during the first quarter of 2013 we do not believe the rates adequately reflect the cost associated with the benefits that we are required to provide to the aged blind and disabled population.
Now let me discuss another housekeeping issue.
Medical margin is a metric that we have not talked about in the past but I think will be an important measure for the future.
By medical margin I mean the total dollar -- total amount of dollars from premium revenue excluding premium taxes remaining after we pay our medical care costs.
The medical care ratio measures performance as a percentage while medical margin measures performance in dollars.
As we take on members with more complex health care needs we are also earning higher premiums for those members.
States have realized that some administrative costs do not grow commensurately with the complexity of the patient needs.
Therefore states are increasingly setting premium rates that incorporate economies of scale on the administrative side.
The result is higher medical care ratios for our members needing more complex medical care.
Remember though that these members come with much higher premiums so the total dollars what we call medical margin that is left over after we pay for medical care is often higher than it would be for our traditional members.
Medical margin then is often a better metric for measuring financial performance related to these members than the medical care ratio.
In the future we will be assuming responsibility for a growing number of individuals requiring complex care.
So I'm spending time today to familiarize you with this metric which will be increasingly important for the proper measurement of our financial performance as we go forward.
While we may experience a higher MCR more importantly we may be more profitable on a dollar basis.
Now let's talk about general and administrative expenses.
These expenses increased during the second quarter of 2013 to 10.1% of total revenue compared with 8.5% of total revenue in the same period last year.
Partially driving this increase is a provider settlement of approximately $3.5 million recognized this quarter.
This settlement reduced earnings from continuing operations by about $0.04 for the quarter.
Most of the increase in G&amp;A which we have talked about before is a ramp up in administrative expenses as we make the necessary infrastructure investments to support Duals and marketplace program implementations without any offsetting revenue.
Moving now to non-cash items.
We recorded in the second quarter a one-time non-cash charge of $3.9 million related to warrants issued in conjunction with the company's convertible senior notes offered in February of 2013.
The warrants were reclassified to equity during the second quarter resulting in a mark-to-market adjustment that reduced earnings from continuing operations by about $0.08 for the quarter.
No further mark-to-market adjustments are required.
At our Investor Day in February of 2013 we talked about alternative financing options including a potential sale leaseback transaction for our corporate offices.
In June this transaction became a reality as we completed a sale leaseback transaction valued at $158 million.
You may recall we have paid approximately $90 million for both buildings.
As part of the sale leaseback transaction we sold our principal corporate offices in Long Beach California as well as an office building in Columbus Ohio and entered into a 25-year lease arrangement for those same properties.
We consider the sale leaseback transaction as a financing mechanism through which the company borrows $158 million for 25 years with an implicit interest rate of approximately 8% which is an interest rate consistent with the market for a 25-year debt.
The debt obligation which is self-amortizing provides a benefit of not requiring a lump sum payment of principal at maturity.
The buildings themselves remain on our books so depreciation and amortization will continue as it was before the transaction.
This sale leaseback transaction together with the senior convertible notes that we issued in February increases our cash on hand providing us with greater flexibility to fund future organic growth as well as strategic acquisitions like we did in New Mexico.
As of June 30 2013 the company had cash and investments of approximately $1.5 billion.
Days and claims payable remain flat at 38 days when compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Finally the company announced that it expects net income per diluted share from continuing operations to be $1.55 for all of 2013 and net income per diluted share including discontinued operations to be $1.72 for all of 2013.
As I noted a few minutes ago income from continuing operations is the best metric with which to measure our financial performance.
The back half of the year will be affected by a number of items.
In the third quarter these items will be: rate decreases in Ohio effective July 1; rate increases in Texas effective September 1; potential pent-up demand associated with the transfer of members from the Lovelace Community Health Plan to Molina Healthcare in New Mexico; potential pent-up demand associated with the statewide service area expansion in Ohio which became effective July 1; increased payments for personal attendant services and adult day care in Texas effective July 1.
And items affecting the fourth quarter or the entire back half of the year include: potential rate increases in California and Michigan effective October 1; continued infrastructure spending for marketplace dual enrollment Centennial Care and the Florida long-term care program; interest expenses associated with our recently completed sale leaseback transaction; anticipated effective tax rate on continued -- continuing operations for all of 2013 of approximately 45%.
You will recall that the guidance of $1.55 per diluted share which we issued previously for 2013 did not include certain administrative expenses associated with membership growth related to the marketplaces Medicaid expansion and some Duals initiatives.
At the time we issued our original guidance we said we would update guidance at a later date and take into account these additional expenditures.
Due to our improved operating outlook for the rest of 2013 I'm happy to report that we've been able to include these costs in our revised guidance without lowering our target EPS.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is on the California exchanges.
So the rates are out there.
You look like you're competitively priced in a number of markets.
Just wanted to get your impression in terms of how you're positioned there what you're thinking in terms of what '14 membership might look like there and margins.
Justin we're not going to talk about 2014 in terms of membership or revenue or anything like that.
We'll do that when we issue 2014 guidance.
But we are pleased with where we came out in terms of pricing.
We're the second lowest silver plan which is where we want to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I can ask 1 or 2 other questions then.
First on premium taxes.
One of your peers indicated that there could be some issues in terms of getting the deductibility or the non-deductibility of premium taxes back from the states in terms of Medicaid rates.
So essentially they would get the tax itself or the fee passed through but the nondeductibility could be problematic.
Are you -- how do you feel about that right now in terms of that issue? Our position is that in order for the rates to be actuarially sound we got to have the premium tax covered.
And to the extent that there's a difference because it's not tax-deductible it's got to be grossed out.
Research Division</strong> And do you feel like states see it that way as well you're having those conversations and do you expect to get that? We're having those conversations.
We know that there are a number of trade groups that are also writing letters to the Medicaid directors explaining the issues to them.
But as of this time we have not started rate negotiations relative to the ACA tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question just on SG&amp;A.
How should we -- I mean SG&amp;A was clearly a little bit higher in the second quarter you are making investments there.
How should we think about that in terms of that run rate into the back half of the year? I think that for the back half of the year that will probably be in a stable point.
And then as the revenue starts coming in in 2014 it starts going down.
But right now I would expect the dollar amount spent for the back half of the year to be about what it is for the first half.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Following on the exchange discussions here there's been some talk this earnings season around exchange risk adjusters lowering PMPM to what one of your competitors described as a challenging level if you end up with a very healthy book of business.
And whether or not healthy members even if they receive a subsidy might be more attracted to bonds level plans with their 0 premiums especially if they only plan to use this as a catastrophic coverage or default on paying their out-of-pocket expenses.
So Molina has the lowest premiums for bronze in San Bernardino Riverside and the second lowest in LA and I was just wondering if you could speak to whether or not you see that scenario as a potential risk and if you guys are considering any additional reinsurance beyond what's in the 3 Rs.
Well Sarah this is Mario.
We're pretty happy with where we came out in the pricing.
And I think in terms of speculating as to whether it's good or bad or what the enrollment is going to look like it's really too soon to tell.
I mean I don't think anyone has any idea how this is going to turn out.
We can look at what happened in Massachusetts but for the most part we really don't have very much information.
We're just going to have to see how things turn out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe an update on your discussions with California as far as a potential settlement might go.
I thought you guys were pretty far along in that process but no word yet.
So just wondering if you could speak to an updated timeline on that or any information on what the cause of it taking so long might be.
Well the saga continues and we're actually thinking of turning this into a miniseries.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So no final meeting in sight or planned on that? Not yet.
We continue to have discussions with the state.
The next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I think I want to follow-up on a miniseries that you guys are embarking on here.
Has your attitude changed around whether or not you think that arrangement with the state around Medicaid margins would be attractive? No we're continuing to pursue the settlement.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it sounds like it's more on the state side in terms of timeline as opposed to any change in what you guys are trying to do? I think part of the problem right now Josh is that we've just come through the budget season.
And so we've had people on vacation so we -- discussions have gotten stretched out.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So season finale is still pending I guess.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Maybe we could talk -- one just quick one on cash flow.
Were there any timing issues in the quarter that impacted the cash flow? It's Joe speaking.
There were a couple of issues with just 2 states California and Wisconsin paying a month later presumably as a result of their fiscal year ends.
But we collected a bunch of cash in July in those 2 states that we'd have normally collected in June.
Research Division</strong> Do you happen to know what the total on those 2 payments was Joe? North of -- I'll have to dig that out and get back to you.
It was pretty much a standard monthly payment.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then just last question on the California Duals as you're thinking about the opportunity implementation et cetera you got a little bit more time obviously you got to spend in front of that.
But any updates in terms of what you think share could look like next year? I know you're not giving guidance for '14 but maybe some parameters about how we should be thinking about how the Duals end up enrolled.
I'm sorry Josh.
I didn't understand your question.
Can you say that again? Research Division</strong> Dual -- California Dual membership in 2014.
Basically I'm looking for how we should think about the members rolling on and any parameters we should think about in terms of sizing the opportunity for you.
This is Terry Josh.
We do know that we won't get all the memberships at once that it will be phased in as we experienced with the SPD so it will be rolling in each month.
But what we don't know and I don't think anyone knows is how many of these Medicare members may choose to opt out.
They have the right to opt out.
The Medicaid portion would stay with us but otherwise we don't know.
Josh this is John.
I'll just refer you back to the last presentation we did when we talked about this.
We haven't seen anything other than the delay that would suggest that those numbers are far off.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you're sticking with that just let's think more about Jan 1 first [ph].
The next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back to some of the comments about you maintained $1.55 despite all the incremental investment spending.
Can you help us think about how much incremental spending there is relative to the prior $1.55? Incremental spend for the buildup is probably going to be about $10 million to $15 million.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay even that -- I mean given where the G&amp;A came out in the quarter that -- is there anything else that would have increased the run rate relative to the first quarter that would be notable? Chris let me back up.
Maybe I misunderstood your first question.
Are you asking in the fourth -- excuse me in the back half of the year? LLLP Research Division</strong> So in the back half of the year -- when I think about the investment spending that you need to prepare for next year that wasn't in your prior $1.55 and you said earlier that you're maintaining $1.55 despite this incremental spending.
I'm trying to figure out how much incremental spending is now in your current guidance.
Okay I'm sticking with that $10 million to $15 million.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to just understand when you thought about your prior guidance of $1.55 and some of the charges that ran through this quarter on the litigation expense and the charge related to the warrants was that in the prior $1.55 as well? No it was not.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- just wanted to clarify.
So I think you said the warrant cost or the mark-to-market was $0.08 in the quarter and that would imply something different I believe than the $3.9 million or a little bit above that.
No it's because it's not tax deductible.
The next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question just on reserve development.
It looks like you had some pretty substantial gross reserve development of around $50 million in the second quarter.
Did you reestablish all of that? Or did any of that accrue into the second quarter earnings? No.
Right now Scott the data in claims table being flat.
Also we're pretty comfortable with where we are in terms of our reserve range.
So we would say that we replenished it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just second question.
Can you just update us on again the Ohio rate cut in the third quarter and then the Texas rate increase what sort of those final estimated numbers are? We have not quantified -- we're not going to go into that level of detail in terms of the Ohio and the Texas rate increase.
The Texas rate increase is effective 9/1.
In Ohio the rate decrease is partially based on changing to the risk adjusters.
They reset the risk adjusters back to 1 for the third quarter.
I think it was in large part because they want statewide contracts.
We had a risk adjustor that was higher than 1 so that is effectively a rate decrease for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that puts you on a really nice MLR in Ohio in the second quarter 79.8% was that benefiting from some of the -- where the risk adjusters were or were there some other factors that drove the really strong underwriting margins in Ohio in the second quarter? I think that the risk adjusters are part and parcel with some of the benefits and some of the medical margin that we talked about.
Because the risk adjustor do help keep the premiums higher because we have a population that's perceived to be higher costs.
They've done a nice job in provider contracting and utilization management in Ohio which helps keep the medical care costs down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just one last question.
It sounds like invitations to negotiate have been sent out recently to the plans for the Florida Acute Care re-procurement.
I'm just wondering whether you can confirm that Molina did get one of those notifications or invitations to negotiate? Yes.
This is Mario.
We did get invited to negotiate but we're not going to comment further until those negotiations are completed.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the Lovelace transaction and kind of how you think about the benefits of entering into that transaction? I guess it sounds like you made at least some payment for this.
I know you expect some integration costs or potentially pent-up demand in the second half of the year.
But how are you thinking about the ability to retain that membership heading into next year when the new contracts come in place? This is Mario.
This is a really nice transaction for us.
We have a very high degree of overlap with the Lovelace provider network including the hospitals.
So what we see is a pretty seamless transition for the members and we think that we should be able to retain a large percentage of the membership and maybe even grow that membership in the back half of the year.
So -- and at the same time there will be some administrative cost savings.
So we think this is a pretty good thing for us it's a good thing for the members and I think it's a good thing for the state because it promotes continuity of care.
And Kevin this is John.
Just to remind you as we've seen with a lot of other acquisitions that we've done there's often pent-up demand in the first couple of months because as 1 contract sort of rolls out providers are reluctant to provide a lot of services for fear of not getting paid the patients are concerned of getting into new aspects of care until they get the new health plan et cetera.
So we would not be surprised to see medical care costs for the membership that transitions to Molina be higher than it was historically for a few months which is why we highlighted that when we talked about our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And because of that dynamic do you expect that this has any impact positive or negative on your guidance when you think about your Q1 guidance versus your Q2 guidance now? We don't think it has a negative relative to the full year guidance but we do think it will have a slight drag in Q3.
But then once we get through the pent-up demand if any we hit the latter part of Q3 and Q4 very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you outlined the growth initiatives that were out there for you I don't think you mentioned California bridge program.
How do you think about that opportunity? Well we like the California bridge program and we have been enthusiastic about it.
But I don't think it's in effect yet right? This is still something that's being talked about.
But we have been promoting this not only in California but in other states as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So way too early to size that or think about that? Yes I think the authorization was for the state to consider it but I don't think they've actually gone forth with implementation yet.
The next question comes from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's David Styblo filling in for Windley.
I had a question just want to go back to the guidance and what was included.
Kind of when I sized it out it looks like there's about -- the guidance is absorbing $0.27 of new cost.
The $0.12 you guys had spiked out from the one-off and then it seems like about $0.15 more of incremental spending.
Just want to confirm that that's right.
And then second of all where is the out-performance coming from to absorb that? Is it in the second quarter alone or something that's more forward-looking for the rest of the year? So this is John.
So I think the number you scoped out are right.
Where it's coming from I think as we discussed we got -- 8 of our 9 health plans in the second quarter had higher medical margins in Q2 versus -- Q2 of 2013 versus Q2 of 2012.
We did also beat expectations for the first quarter.
So underlying performance in the health plans is improving.
California continues to be a laggard but we think that additional efforts in California plus what we expect to be maybe a rate increase in California in Q4 will help improve California's performance.
So really it's the underlying performance in all the health plans that's carrying us into the back half of the year with better expectations.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's actually a great transition.
I'm going to ask about California.
One of your competitors mentioned that they're getting a rate increase.
Curious what sort of color you have on the rate increase that you might be getting if you have one or if that's still in discussions or if you can size that in anyway that will be helpful.
At this point what we know is the budget that Mario mentioned past in June did include additional dollars for rate increases for health plans.
We've also seen some preliminary numbers from the state and I believe those preliminary numbers maybe on a county level but not plan specific.
So until we actually get through the negotiation and the discussion process with the state of California we won't know exactly what that rate increase is but all the signs point to rates going up for California.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
If I could just squeeze one more in on the parent cash if you could provide an update there and just kind of what you are expecting that to roll forward through the year end.
It's Joe speaking.
Parent cash is about $525 million as of June 30.
As far as year end that's a little advance.
We're not going to do visibility into that right now.
[Operator Instructions] And the next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you go over how prepared you feel you are at this point in terms of systems for the exchange business given that that involves enrolling individuals and collecting premiums from individuals and sending out EOBs and things like that.
Can you talk about where you're in that process and how comfortable you are? This is Terry Bayer.
We're on track.
We developed an elaborate plan both for 10/1 when the marketplace enrollment will begin and then 1/1 when we'll begin to serve those members.
So our capacity in our health plans is geared up for the care management and network and then the administrative our build out is occurring according to our plans for the premium billing and collection et cetera.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you're developing all of that de novo? Or how are you going about developing that? To a degree de novo and we'd built on our existing systems and added the new functionality that we needed for the product where it is different from Medicaid.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of a follow up to the last question regarding the potential for rate increase in California.
Is there any way for you to size for us what you think is in the budget for rate increases in California overall perhaps even it's not at the plan level.
Can you talk about where you might be in relation to that? And as we get closer to that the competitor talked about the rate being maybe adequate and perhaps even seeing a reversal of the receivables being set up.
So I'm wondering if it even makes sense for you to want to have the target -- the risk sharing target anymore going forward.
Are you still pursuing that? Those are 2 separate questions.
At this point I know that we won't speculate on what our rate will be because there are many factors that go into the final rate development number 1.
Number 2 on the rate negotiation -- the rate settlement negotiations that we've been talking about Mario's miniseries as it were I think that that's a good safety net to have.
It beats the alternative of continuing to take the state of California to court.
And so if we can reach the appropriate settlement I think it's the right thing to do for the company.
And the last question comes from the line of Ana Gupta [ph] with Dowling &amp; Partners.
So the questions about the Dual Eligibles.
I appreciate you having the medical margin as the metric of choice going forward instead of MLR it makes sense.
I'm just trying to understand who do you think has the competitive advantage on winning these Duals contracts across Medicare and Medicaid.
It seems to me like an arms race that is going on.
And Washington as we found out United and Regence won the contracts and it felt like the Medicaid incumbents were sidelined to some degree in Florida.
Now Humana is coming in with this acquisition of American Eldercare.
It seems like it's targeted to Duals.
So how do you see this all playing out in the states that still need to make their decisions? Well Ana this is Mario.
We feel very comfortable about this.
We think we are very well positioned.
We won 3 Duals contracts already and there are a few more in the pipeline.
I also believe that the Medicaid part of this is under -- misunderstood and underestimated.
This is really not about managing Medicare patients.
The Duals are very different than your typical Medicare beneficiary.
And right now we have a considerable number of Duals one of the largest populations of Duals under management of any company in the country.
So we think we're very well positioned to compete for these patients.
So this is more you think about the reduction in institutional care costs relative to acute care costs? And then how does that play out into how the savings are being split between CMS and the state? And how -- is that part of the reason California continues to be more delayed relative to even states like Illinois which seemed to be behind California at one point? Well there are a number of important components.
Certainly decreasing hospital cost is an important component of this.
Pharmacy is a large component of this but so is long-term care.
And the long-term care is more than just institutional long-term care.
There are a lot of aspects to that as we'd learn from our experiences in Texas.
So those I think are things that play into all of this.
As far as why California is behind or ahead or which state is ahead or behind it has a lot to do with factors behind the scenes between the state and between CMS and also the readiness of the state's infrastructure to handle the contracts.
So I don't think we can read too much into that and things can change over time.
So I just want to urge everyone to be patient with the rollout of these contracts.
They will come.
It will take a little longer than we all thought but I think in the end it's more important to do it right.
And I just want to congratulate our staff on the terrific work they have done in getting ready for these contracts.
We've got a couple of readiness reviews coming up here at the very near future and we feel pretty comfortable about our ability to handle these contracts.
Just one final follow-up on that again Mario.
On SG&amp;A do you feel comfortable that what's being baked is consistent with your expectations for what the Duals SG&amp;A load would be? And is there any -- are there any differences by state that concern you? Well I think as John pointed out the SG&amp;A load in terms of percentage may be a little less than what we've seen on the Medicaid side simply because the premiums are higher.
And so I'm not really too worried about the administrative cost load at this point.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone.
We appreciate you joining us for this call.
It's been a good quarter for us and I just want to mention in closing that the Dodgers are in first place.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday October 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Circe.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2013.
The company's Earnings Release was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our Chief Operating Officer; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgments as of October 30 2013 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
And hello everyone.
Our third quarter results once again demonstrate our ability to strengthen our company by capturing the long-term opportunities available to us while executing our near-term initiatives such as organic growth acquisitions and operational improvements.
And while 2 items the prior period developments in Texas and the ramp-up of general administrative costs associated with building for future growth affected our strong operating results.
We are pleased with the quarter particularly since the medical margin improved in all but one of our health plans.
John will discuss in greater detail our financial results for the quarter during his remarks.
Let's start with a topic that's generated considerable media coverage in the last few weeks: the marketplace.
As you know from all the headlines the rollout of the Affordable Care Act program has been stalled by technical difficulties with federal and state health insurance marketplace websites.
Please remember that we are participating in the marketplaces in 9 states where there is a mix of federal and state-run health insurance exchanges.
However given the technical difficulties and the reliability of the information we believe it is premature to comment on enrollment figures at this time.
We are focused on improving our marketplace platform by continuing to build on our provider network preparing our call centers to take additional calls and in making our own web portal more robust.
Investments in the operational readiness of our platform must be made regardless of the enrollment.
Lastly in anticipation of glitches with the health insurance marketplaces we had delayed some of our marketing and outreach activities to the second half of the fourth quarter to allow for more time for website fixes.
Given the current struggles and confusion associated with the marketplace rollout we will be increasing our initial fourth quarter sales and outreach activities as well as generating progress -- product awareness through advertising.
We will continue to monitor any developments in the marketplace and respond accordingly.
Another key provision of the Affordable Care Act is the expansion of Medicaid coverage to anyone whose income is at or below 138% of the federal poverty line.
Last week Governor John Kasich of Ohio announced the approval of Medicaid expansion meaning that an additional 275 000 low-income Ohio residents will now be eligible for health care under the Medicaid program.
Ohio is our 4th largest health plan in terms of enrollment and as of July 1 of this year we began operating statewide.
This development brings to 6 the number of states in which Molina operates that are pursuing Medicaid expansion.
Ohio is expected to implement the expansion of the Medicaid program on January 1 2014.
So we will begin hiring additional staff to accommodate that growth as needed.
Outreach and awareness generated by the marketplace rollout and the expansion of Medicaid are likely to result in a welcome-mat effect.
The welcome-mat effect describes the behavior of many people who are currently eligible but not enrolled in Medicaid who as a result of the marketplace awareness will become enrolled in Medicaid.
We believe this welcome-mat effect is likely to result in growth in Medicaid enrollment even in states where there is no planned Medicaid expansion like South Carolina Texas and Wisconsin.
Earlier this week the Wall Street Journal and other publications have reported a surge in Medicaid enrollment across certain states.
In Washington for example 87% of those joining new plans during the first 3 weeks of October were joining Medicaid plans.
While it's too early to know how many of those enrolling were already eligible for Medicaid it suggests that a large percentage of individuals seeking health insurance in the marketplace actually qualify for Medicaid.
As it relates to the dual-eligible program the implementation date for Illinois has slipped again.
The program is now expected to begin on February 1 2014.
These types of delays extend the length of time in which we are incurring administrative costs without any revenue.
As Terry discussed at the investor day in some instances programs have been delayed even after we passed readiness reviews as was the case in California and Illinois.
And we've also taken an important step in South Carolina as we successfully completed the application process for the South Carolina dual-eligible demonstration and we will move to readiness review.
As of today the dual-eligible program start dates for our 4 other states in addition to Illinois remained unchanged.
And they are as follows: Ohio March 1 2014; California April 1 2014; South Carolina July 1 2014; and in Texas January 1 2015.
Last week our Florida health plan was awarded Medicaid contracts for 3 regions by the state of Florida that include Miami-Dade Orlando and Palm Beach.
These contracts are expected to commence on second or third quarters of 2014.
We expect that these awards will allow us to increase our Medicaid managed care membership.
We're pleased to continue to provide quality health care services to Florida's Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries.
When combined with our Florida plan's long-term care contract our Medicare Special Needs plan and marketplace offering these contract awards mean that Molina Healthcare Florida will remain a strong presence in that state.
As a reminder the Florida long-term care program through which we will provide institutional and home and community-based services to beneficiaries is scheduled to begin in its first region on December 1 with additional regions following in 2014.
I also want to update you on the start-up of our Illinois health plan.
In September we enrolled our first ABD members.
We expect enrollment to grow slowly in the fourth quarter as the state has delayed ABD passive enrollment.
As I mentioned a moment ago we also expect enrollment of our first dual-eligible members in Illinois in 2014 albeit delayed from January to February.
Next I am pleased to report that we have reached a final agreement with the state of California on several Medi-Cal disputes dating back to 2003.
This agreement is significant because it will extend our existing contracts for an additional 5 years while helping to protect the margins of the California plan moving forward.
In addition the agreement also includes a contract award for Imperial County a new service area adjacent to San Diego County expected to commence on November 1 2013.
As you can see from the efforts underway we continue laying the groundwork for additional growth in 2014 and beyond.
However even during this highly active period we have continued our focus on quality.
That focus is evidenced by the recent announcement from the National Committee on Quality Assurance of the inclusion of Molina Healthcare's eligible health plans in NCQA's Medicaid Health Insurance Plan Rankings for 2013.
Molina's health plans have consistently been accredited and ranked for quality by NCQA.
Molina Healthcare Utah is the only Medicaid plan in the state of Utah that is accredited by NCQA and Molina Healthcare's Medicaid plans in New Mexico and Washington are the highest-ranked plans in their respective states.
Another indication of our continued commitment to quality comes from this year's progress on the Medicare STAR ratings.
Each year the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services assign ratings of 1 to 5 stars to Medicare plans to make it easier for consumers to compare them.
This year all of our Medicare plans earned 3 or more stars an improvement over the previous year.
This is important because earning 3 or more stars makes us eligible for passive enrollment of Medicare beneficiaries in the new Medicare Medicaid or duals contracts.
I want to remind everyone that the 2013 influenza season is now upon us.
While the flu isn't always thought of as a life-threatening illness the dangers and complications that influenza can have on the elderly and children can be quite severe.
Influenza can be fatal even in children without high-risk medical conditions.
This highlights the importance of recommendations that people including all of you on the call today should receive annual flu shots.
We will be redoubling our efforts to encourage our members to get vaccinated.
In closing during the third quarter we accelerated our preparations for growth in 2014 even as we took immediate steps to grow our business now.
We've closed on our acquisitions in New Mexico and South Carolina.
We welcomed our first members in Illinois and we continued to prepare for expansion opportunities in 2014.
I'll now turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.16 per diluted share compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $0.01 per diluted share reported in the third quarter of 2012.
Significantly we experienced negative prior period development in our Texas health plan of $14 million which represented approximately $0.16 per diluted share.
This negative PPD largely relates to claims incurred in 2012.
We are pleased with these results which with a couple of exceptions were consistent with our expectations.
We continue to benefit from our efforts to deliver medical care more efficiently.
We increased our revenue as a result of our recent acquisition in New Mexico and our revenue diversification efforts continued to bear fruit.
On the other hand administrative expenses related to the revenue we won't receive until 2014 reduced our earnings.
And we continue to be concerned about the adequacy of premium rates for California ABD population.
With that said let's look at the third quarter in more detail.
Premium revenue in the third quarter grew to $1.6 billion representing a 9% increase over the same period last year.
The increase in premium revenue was mainly driven by a 5% increase in enrollment and a 4% increase in revenue per member per month.
As I've just noted we have made substantial progress in delivering medical care more efficiently.
Our consolidated medical care ratio decreased to 87.3% in the third quarter of 2013 compared with 91.1% in the same period last year.
Medical care ratios decreased and medical margins increased at all health plans except Florida.
Put another way per-member per-month revenue grew by almost 4% while medical costs per-member per-month held steady.
This is clear proof of improved core operational performance and gives us confidence as we prepare for growth next year.
Revenue diversification remains an important part of our focus.
Efficient operations across multiple health plans which we demonstrated again this quarter are important if we are to withstand the temporary setbacks that occasionally affect any single plan.
I also want to emphasize the continued strong financial performance of our Molina Medicaid Solutions segment.
We haven't spent much time talking about MMS in the last couple of years but our financial results in that business have been very satisfying.
Revenue diversification will be even more important over the next year or 2.
As we begin serving members under a large number of new programs there is a chance that rates may not be set adequately at the start of these programs.
We're confident that rates will improve over time as more information is learned about these populations.
But in the short run we may experience considerable financial pressure.
We believe that our broad diversification across geographies and programs will enable us to better withstand any potential errors in rate development by the state.
Our belief in the importance of revenue diversification has driven our recent acquisitions in New Mexico and South Carolina as well as our recent start-up in Illinois.
Moving on to administrative costs.
As we have said before there is a lot of effort involved in preparing for the new revenue we will realize in 2014.
We've spoken at length about our Medicare Medicaid and marketplace opportunities in 2014.
But even beyond that we are gearing up for expansion into long-term care services in Florida and into both long-term care and behavioral health services in New Mexico.
In South Carolina we are preparing to bring on an entirely new health plan in January and a Medicare-Medicaid Plan later in the year.
And in Illinois we do not expect to have meaningful enrollment until early next year.
For some time now we have been incurring considerable expense to build the infrastructure to support these initiatives.
That infrastructure build continues as these new opportunities.
For example in South Carolina and in Texas dual-eligible opportunities come into focus.
Much as with an acquisition we need to invest money in administrative infrastructure before we can realize the benefits of the new revenue.
But unlike an acquisition where most costs are capitalized many of these costs are expensed immediately.
In addition to infrastructure expenditures we are now seeing increased G&amp;A spend for the operational ramp-up of some of these opportunities.
We are now hiring more member services claims and care coordination personnel to support our marketplace and Medicaid expansions and the additional membership in Ohio Illinois New Mexico and Florida beginning in January.
To give you an idea of the scale of these efforts let's look at our Illinois health plan where we don't expect meaningful membership until early next year because of the state delay in ABD auto assignment.
In Illinois we incurred $2.5 million in administrative expense in just the third quarter.
To support that expense stream we only had 188 members in September the first month for which we had any membership in Illinois at all.
Despite the delays in implementation regulators expect us to be fully staffed.
The result of these efforts across the company is that G&amp;A increased during the third quarter of 2013 to 10.4% of total revenue compared to 8.2% of total revenue for the same period last year.
We estimate that we incurred about $30 million of general and administrative expense in the third quarter related to future revenue.
As I will discuss in a moment this spend will grow considerably in the fourth quarter.
I also want to remind everyone that premium rates are still a challenge.
Our Texas health plan received a 6% rate increase effective September 1 but our Michigan plan received only a 1% increase effective October 1.
Our Ohio health plan actually received a combination of premium decreases and increases to fee schedules affective July 1 2013 that had the effect of a 3.5% decrease to medical margin as a percent of premium revenue.
Specifically premium revenue in Ohio decreased due to an overall premium rate reduction and a decrease in ABD risk adjustment revenue while costs increased due to a rebasing of inpatient fee schedules.
We disagree with some of the state's assumptions related to these new rates and are pursuing the matter with the state.
In California we are expecting a rate increase of about 2% effective October 1 and another 2% effective January 1.
We still do not believe that California rates are adequate to put a medical benefit provided to ABD members.
As we move into 2014 and realize revenue growth we expect our financial focus to shift from G&amp;A costs to premium rates.
At this juncture there are no states that have set rates for the Medicaid expansion populations.
And while we remain confident that the states will reimburse us for the industry excise tax included in the Affordable Care Act the outlook for reimbursement for the income tax consequences of that excise tax is somewhat less certain.
We continue to engage in discussions with our state partners on this issue.
Several states have told us they are awaiting instructions from CMS.
We will continue to emphasize the importance of adequate premium rates in improving quality of care and encouraging better health outcomes.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At September 30 2013 the company had cash and investments of almost $1.7 billion including approximately $470 million at our parent company.
Cash flow from operations in the third quarter was artificially increased by the timing of receipts and payments for a number of items including deferred revenue accounts payable and payments that we process on behalf of our state partners without assuming any medical cost risk.
We anticipate many of these items affecting cash flow will reverse in the fourth quarter.
Days and claims payable increased from 38 days at June 30 2013 to 41 days at September 30 2013.
This increase is not impacted by the payable related to the pass-throughs that I just mentioned.
Based on our year-to-date results as well as better visibility into administrative expenditures in the fourth quarter as we've just discussed we have lowered our full year earnings guidance and now expect earnings per share from continuing operations to be approximately $1.15 per diluted share for the year ended December 31 2013.
At $1.15 per diluted share our 2013 estimates still represent a considerable year-over-year improvement when compared to the $0.21 per diluted share reported for all of 2012.
As we discussed at Investor Day adjusted net income per diluted share is a key metric for us.
Therefore on an adjusted net income per diluted share basis this translates into approximately $3.20 per share for our guidance for 2013.
We will be referring to this metric more in the future.
Some of you joining us today may be questioning our guidance reduction after announcing a part of that except for the unexpected provider costs in Texas matched our expectations.
Simply put we now expect the fourth quarter administrative costs to be even greater than we originally anticipated.
Delays in enrollment at the Illinois health plan a delayed start-up in our South Carolina operations and our expansion into Imperial County in Southern California mean that we will incur even more administrative costs without related revenue in the fourth quarter.
Equally important as a result of problems with the marketplace websites we've decided to increase our advertising and other member outreach expenditures in the fourth quarter.
If necessary we will continue this increased spend into 2014.
As Mario mentioned we have reached final agreement with the state of California on several Medi-Cal disputes dating back to 2003.
The financial terms are consistent with a tentative agreement that we shared with you at Investor Day.
A settlement account applicable to our Medi-Cal TANF medical ABD and dual-eligible lines of business in California has been established.
After each period the account balance will be adjusted to account for a deficit or a surplus.
Generally speaking a surplus will accrue if Molina's margin exceeds 3.25% while a deficit accrues if our margin falls below 3.25%.
That surplus or deficit will apply to 75% of our California health plan revenue in 2014 and 50% of our revenue in later years.
Upon the exploration of a settlement agreement in 2017 the settlement account if in a deficit position would result in a payment to Molina from the state up to a maximum of $40 million.
If the settlement account is in a surplus position no amount is owed by either party.
Equally or even more importantly the settlement agreement extends each of the California health plan's existing Medi-Cal managed care contracts for an additional 5 years including its contracts in San Diego San Bernardino Riverside and Sacramento counties.
It also awards Molina a new Medi-Cal managed care contract for 5 years in Imperial County.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is on the prior period costs in the quarter.
Can you flesh that out a little bit more in terms of where those costs came from  and more importantly your level of confidence that the poll issues have been recognized in the third quarter results? That's a great question Justin.
So these are related to claims dating back to 2012 that were adjudicated and so we thought that they were put to bed so to speak.
But providers appealed and due to some operational issues that we had discovered this year relating back to 2012 we ended up paying additional monies out and then reserving for the final cleanup.
I would say that this quarter finally puts to bed the operational issues that we suffered in Texas beginning in February of 2012.
And I think most importantly as Terry has talked about we've turned over a lot of the management in Texas and they're much more confident that the operational issues in Texas are behind us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the industry tax sounds like you're a little less certain in terms of the lack of deductibility which follows on some of your peers saying the same thing.
Is it reasonable to think that the -- can you give us -- I guess what I'm asking is there any way to kind of quantify if we were to say 100% of that deductibility is at risk or the lack of deductibility? Do you feel like it's happenstance that you're having this -- the more difficult conversation with or uncertainty around? Or should we -- can you assume the entirety of that market deductibility might be at risk into 2014? Any way to kind of quantify that for us? Yes I don't think we can quantify it for you simply because most of the states have not addressed the issue.
So when we say that we lack certainty it is not because the states have said they're not going to reimburse this for us it's just that they are silent.
Many of the states have told us they're waiting for instructions from CMS.
I believe that Michigan is the only state that has affirmatively stated that they intend to reimburse us for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And mechanically is it your expectation that sometime between now and let's say during -- early next year you're going to get a rate increase that'll be effective January 1? That will basically making poll on the industry tax -- big step a state tends to make you whole.
Is that the way they should work? This is Joe speaking.
I think that most -- the conversation with most states is that they would prefer and I think we would prefer they make a lump sum payment rather than building the amount into the ratings.
So most states are indicating that they will make us hold on the tax piece perhaps not the income tax deductibility but the tax piece upon our determination of how much we're going to owe the feds.
So if we [indiscernible] even outside of the rate structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
The -- obviously there's a lot of opportunity.
You're making some investments early on to cover that.
Any update in terms of how we should think about your revenue growth over the next 2 years thinking about 2014 year-over-year.
And then I know you have that $12.5 billion number out there.
Any -- are you thinking there's upside to that number given the opportunity out there? Just any update there will be great.
Sure Justin.
This is John.
In terms of the revenue growth over the next 2 years we're sticking with our $12.5 billion number.
Research Division</strong> How should we think about '14? You can think about '14 when we give guidance in February.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess more pressing issues.
Fourth quarter.
So I'm just trying to understand some of these G&amp;A costs.
I guess my first question would be how much of it relates to the market size or as you call it exchanges? You know we're not going to split out Josh how much relates to this product or that product.
In some respects there is spillover right? So as people go to the websites and think that they may be eligible for a marketplace product find that they're eligible for Medicaid.
Then how do we differentiate the cost for that? What we do is we look at when we anticipate the enrollment's going to be make sure we're staffed up to handle that enrollment and let the numbers follow.
Research Division</strong> Well okay.
So John I guess others have suggested across -- broadly across health care services land that the marketplaces are getting pushed back and delayed.
And so they're actually pushing back some of the marketing and the spending et cetera to wait until the exchanges are fully operational et cetera.
So I sort of think about your strategy was theoretically one of defense in nature where you're going to try and maintain that churn population in your plans and now maybe there's less people jumping into exchanges.
So I'm just curious why you'd be spending more and not less.
Because unlike some of the other plans we were -- are trying to maximize the Medicaid the welcome mat which were -- as Mario talked about reports are that those seem to be the biggest initial pushes for people and we want to make sure that people continue to try and sign up.
Whether it's through the websites or calling our call centers and getting navigators getting the paper applications in we feel that we can't let the issue die.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so -- and most of your states have the ability for members to select their plan correct before they get auto-assigned if they turn out to be Medicaid-eligible already? That's correct Josh.
This is Mario.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
The second question on taxes.
When you say sort of operational issues et cetera it sounds just basically like you guys denied claims that turned out you shouldn't have denied them.
And so now they're -- now you have to pay them out.
I guess I'm curious does that change your perspective on sort of the run rate cost trend that you're seeing in Texas? Do you feel like you're adequately reserved for future trends? And do you think rates should be retroactively reset to sort of accounts with these higher costs? And now this is Joe speaking.
Well first of all we think we've caught up with this and we don't anticipate any more unfavorable prior period development for this issue.
The second point is we really feel like with the -- we feel like Texas is treating us fairly.
I think it's a fair statement after the rate increase we received on September 1 so we would not anticipate going back and asking for anything.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then just last question.
If we could just take a step back how do you guys think about net margins? It's been a couple of years now of depressed overall sort of net margins.
And what do you think is to that -- 2015.
Let's skip '14 because I know there's a lot of ramp-up there as well.
But when you're doing $12.5 billion on the top line theoretically a more normalized G&amp;A level et cetera what's the net margin for your overall book of business supposed to look like? Josh I think we've been pretty consistent in saying 2%.
Research Division</strong> And there's nothing that you see -- I mean it just feels like with some of the additional G&amp;A et cetera but you think that normalizes over time and you're sticking with the 2%.
Josh this is Mario.
I'm really encouraged by the progress we've made in the medical cost area this quarter.
And so yes we're going to stick with that 2%.
I think that eventually as the enrollment grows the percentage that we're spending on admin will drop.
And if we can continue to make progress as we have been on the medical costs we think those numbers are achievable in the long term.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the 2015 guidance question.
It -- I mean it seems like there's a few positive items that weren't incorporated in the last update of guidance.
Now we have a higher expansion which at a previous investor day you guys had talked about it being in the $650 million range.
There's South Carolina duals which I was estimating to be another $350 million to $600 million in revenue.
And then the Florida acute win which could be about $410 million.
So it just seems like there's a lot of positive news that's not yet baked into the 2015 guidance.
Just wondering if you could give thoughts on if there's any additional headwinds that are offsetting that or if it's just being conservative at this point.
Sarah this is Mario.
I think we've done a pretty good job at detailing all the headwinds.
And you're right.
There is still considerable upside from these new contracts new programs new states.
And that's why I'm so optimistic.
We have not provided an update on guidance.
We're going to do that in February but you've outlined some of the new issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It just seemed like it could go up by at least $1 billion or more.
Got it.
And then in Ohio there's a few moving pieces.
We have the new members coming in in August and then last quarter you spoke to benefit from risk adjusters.
And now there's an ABD revenue reduction.
So if you could just give a little bit more detail.
Are the new members coming in around the risk score range that you anticipated? Was there any benefit on some of those numbers from risk adjusters or did it some other way and if that's related at all to the ABD revenue reduction? This is Joe speaking Sarah.
No these -- the margin impression we're talking about in Ohio doesn't have anything to do uniquely with the new members that came on July 1.
The risk adjustment issue isn't effective July.
The risk adjusters for the ABD population overall for the entire State of Ohio were reset and we've always had a very aggressive effort at capturing costs ensuring that information with the state and getting our members the right medical care they need.
As a result we've traditionally attracted members with more complex needs and met those needs and been able to document that with the state.
It just so happens that on the latest reset either because of member mix changes or because other health plans are doing a better job in terms of their encounter submissions proportionally we received a reduction in risk adjusters.
But it doesn't speak into anything that happened with the new membership coming on July 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And last question.
In the prepared remarks a concern was voiced over the California ABD rates.
So just wondering if you could talk a little bit about that? And in context of your new settlement wouldn't that be covered by the margin guarantee? Sarah this is John.
To the extent that our margin for the California plan falls below 3.25% for whatever reason the new settlement would kick in.
We do continue to believe that the rates are set too low for the benefits and the utilization and that the ABD members in California are yenning.
We continue to share that data with the state and I believe that the next rate cycle the state will actually utilize health plan data as opposed to fee-for-service data trended forward.
So we are hoping that that will be reflected in rates come next year.
Sarah this is Mario.
There's one other point I want to make on that too.
While we have a settlement agreement with the state of California that offers us some protection on the margins.
Most health plans in California do not.
So most of the Medicaid plans in California continue to be concerned as we are about the adequacy of rates.
And we will all continue to press the issue with the state because we want the rates to be set appropriately regardless of any kind of settlement.
The rates need to be fair.
They need to reflect the acuity of the patients that we're serving whether there's a settlement agreement or not.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just wanted to follow up maybe on that California item.
Is it -- I think you mentioned that it was going to cover 75% of the population in '14 and then 50% after that.
Can you go into what's driving that wipe out the entire population? Sure.
It's Joe speaking.
We just wanted to make the concept as clear as we can in terms of how the arithmetic works.
The way the agreement works is that the -- to the extent that our margin differs from 3.25% margin we will receive 75% of that difference in margin for our entire revenue.
So we didn't quite find a simpler way to say it.
Research Division</strong> Oh so they're different okay.
Okay the difference is in margin I thought you were talking about different revenue streams.
I guess when you talked about the revenue streams that this sort of applied to I think you said TANF ABD and then duals is Medicaid expansion something different? Or does that fall into one of those buckets? It would fall -- this is John -- it would fall into the settlement agreement.
The reason that it steps down Year 2 is because the premise is that the settlement is to make up for prior years where the rates were not adequate.
So implicit in that is the state is going to continue to work to make sure the rates are more adequate in the future.
The closer they get to getting the absolute right rate the less we will need it so the less that they're going to fund that differential.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then just going back to the G&amp;A spend wonder if maybe you can try and cut it in a different way.
Which is -- I mean you have a couple of new contracts like Imperial or maybe South Carolina or Texas tools coming to more focus.
How much of that is -- of this higher spend is because of some of those clearly delineated new -- or more focus on until the revenue opportunities versus some of the other stuff that's just kind of executing on something you already know about.
How much is really new revenue opportunities? You now probably say so -- as Joe -- or I mean as I mentioned $30 million was the differential between third quarter of this year third quarter of last year.
I think another probably 25% is going to go to the new contracts on top of that.
Plus then you got to layer in the increased advertising and outreach we're going to be doing and then the operational ramp-up as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And when you have in here care coordination medical management capabilities that's more tied to new markets rather than kind of looking at something and saying "Oh I do need to do more in our existing markets " or does it encompass both? Yes this is Mario.
I think that it encompasses both.
For example the duals contracts are going to require us to have more in the way of care managers probably some additional medical directors and that's in an existing state.
In a place like South Carolina it will bring up a whole new health plan.
We've got to hire all the staff for that health plan including the care management.
So it overlaps and it really is a function of the growth and the change in the mix of patients that we're going to be experiencing.
The next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean most everything I've been thinking about has been talked about here tonight.
I guess relative to your Investor Day which was fairly positive in my view and today what would you say is kind of the largest item within your expectations that has changed? Maybe it sounds like a decision to spend more on the G&amp;A side.
Or I don't want to put words in your mouth.
Maybe that's the answer.
But maybe if you could talk to kind of like what is really changed between the Investor Day and today that's creating the change in guidance and a different view of fourth quarter and all that kind of stuff? Well so Tom this is John.
Let me first -- maybe I misheard you but you seemed to imply that we had a positive Investor Day and today's not so positive.
I'm like Mario.
I'm pretty optimistic and I think that our net in that PPD from Texas would've been right on our number.
We still would have said that we're incurring higher costs in Q4 and that's really the operational readiness the G&amp;A spend in part because we did win some new business and in part because the issues related to the marketplace is causing us to want to increase the outreach.
Okay Tom this is Mario.
Tom let me just finish.
I think that if you take the claims issue that we have in Texas and if you take the $2.5 million we spent on Illinois with basically no membership and you reverse that we would've exceeded analyst expectations for the quarter.
The medical costs came down pretty much across the board and I think it was absent that a very strong quarter.
John's right.
We are spending more to build up for our growth next year.
And some of these things like the Imperial County we're running around putting together a network and bringing up a new service area that we really hadn't anticipated was going to come so quickly.
So there are some things that we have to spend that have been accelerated.
But overall and John's having a field day with this I'm actually optimistic and I'm not usually the optimistic one.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's a very fair framework.
I appreciate that.
I didn't mean to imply anything.
I guess I was getting at it sounded like you maybe made a decision to kind of crank the G&amp;A a bit more which again I think is just -- is what I'm hearing in the conversation tonight? That's true.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- I'm good with that.
The medical claims payable number is up a bit.
I mean maybe what's driving that? If you could.
It's Joe speaking.
It's a number of things.
if you're looking at the consolidated number on the balance sheet John had mentioned that we're -- date in claims payable is up.
That's about $16 million this quarter.
We also just had some minor timing issues in terms of cap payment which drove it up and we've also in this quarter and we talked about this in the cash flow section.
There are a number of states that views us a vehicle to pass through certain payments to providers usually hospitals.
These are cases where states will give money to us and then instruct us to pay the sort of hospitals or other providers.
And it just so happened we got a lot of those payments late in the quarter so -- and didn't have a chance to disperse them until early October.
So we can...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So where might that...
Go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just going to say directionally where -- what does that number look like a quarter from now? It's up about $138 million versus December and about $16 million of that's IPMP.
So I think the rest of that more or less reverses next quarter.
I think John alluded to the fact in his remarks we had a lot of onetime items.
I'd -- won't say onetime items.
We've just had a lot of items we think that are going to reverse in December or in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last thing just kind of conceptually given the newness of the duals programs and the Florida LTC program and these things that just keep getting delayed more so than we've seen in the prior I don't know decade or 15 years where new programs started up and we do tend to see delays right? But it feels like kind of more so than usual.
Do you have a dialogue going with any of your state partners to perhaps provide some recourse to you down the line to make up for some of the G&amp;A drag that you're absorbing right now? Is that part of the conversation at all? Tom this is Mario.
No we've not specifically addressed that with them.
And I think that the reason we're seeing all these delays is that the state and federal government are trying to bring up a lot of programs simultaneously.
In past years these things would roll out one this year one next year.
But CMS is trying to bring these duals all these duals contracts up in a period of about 2 years.
It's an aggressive timeframe and I think that they're struggling just in terms of the staff that they have.
I think the government shutdown kind of hurt things a little bit.
And I also think that the state are struggling because remember in this recession states laid off staff.
And so now that things are turning around and they're bringing up these new programs a lot of the people that were there several years ago are now gone.
So you've got new staff who are younger have less experience.
Or in many cases you just don't have the staff period that they had in previous years.
And I think that's what's -- a lot of what's driving the delays.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> On California would you be willing to call out specifically what rate increase you think you need to kind of bring the ABD rates to adequacy or conversely and talk about what your ABD MLR is right now? We generally don't split out MCRs by line of business.
So in other words no.
Research Division</strong> Yes understand that.
You've called it out several times in the -- on the -- or talked about it several times in the call I thought I'd try to get the heart of the issue.
The other question I have is around your G&amp;A discussion and readiness.
I think you had previously talked about 2014 seeing that number decline somewhat.
Now in 2013 the number is going up.
I'm wondering how we should think about that trajectory for 2014 off of this new base? We're -- this is John.
We're still expecting as a percent of revenue that the G&amp;A will go down in 2014.
Research Division</strong> And any magnitude on that? This is Mario.
I think a lot of it's a function of the membership growth right? Because as the revenues grow a lot of the G&amp;A costs will be fixed.
So as the revenues grow G&amp;A as a percent goes down.
You have got fixed costs embedded in this with staff that we've already hired and we've been training.
Some of the things are variable like the amount we spend on advertising and outreach and that we have a little bit more control over.
But as Terry has pointed out in the past when we go through these readiness reviews the states want to see bodies in those chairs and they want to be sure that we're fully staffed.
And then what's happened is that they have pulled the rug out from under us and said "We're going to delay this for 2 or 3 months." And it's been a problem.
Whether that ever gets addressed or not I don't know.
I hope that at some point state recognizes the additional costs that they caused us to incur but I can't guarantee it.
Research Division</strong> So maybe I'll ask in a slightly different way.
I was thinking in terms of dollars of spend going down.
Would you expect that you're actually -- especially in light of ramping that number up in the fourth quarter would you expect the dollars or readiness spend to decline in 2014 or just to decline as a percent of revenue? This is John.
I would say decline as a percent of revenue because as the infrastructure build up on most of these programs you got the operational ramp which will take over.
And as Mario said it really depends on when our enrollment becomes and how big that operational ramp is.
But then also the cycle starts over again right? So now we're starting to prepare for the South Carolina and Texas duals which is some more infrastructure build.
But as a percentage of revenue I think you'll see it go down.
In terms of the growth in terms of the total dollars it should slow down but it will still be up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question on Florida.
That's the one market that you talked about where medical loss ratio did not decline.
What remediation steps are you taking there? Is it all rate or can actually do something operationally to improve? It's Joe speaking.
We've seen some indication that it did.
Like in Ohio a rebasing that took effect earlier this year in terms of the fee schedule may have impacted us.
We're also due to hear very shortly on the rate adjustment effective September 1.
The state's a little bit late on that but we'll have to wait and see what that -- when that number comes in before we can really assess where we're at in Florida.
We've done a very good job in the last few years in Florida though for lowering health care costs.
And they're certainly considerably below where they were a couple of years ago.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
With regard to the California settlement agreement did you say the maximum remuneration is $40 million? Yes.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess I just -- my real question stems from that.
So if I look at your peer who has a similar agreement -- they're larger but they're not 6.5x to 7x larger than you guys in the state.
So can you help us understand why their maximum amount on a relative basis is so much greater than yours? Sure this is Mario.
Remember these are issues that go back to 2003.
And a lot of the settlement comes out of those early years and that was the time when we were much smaller.
So it's -- you can't -- you're sort of comparing apples and oranges.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that makes sense.
And then when you think about the administrative spend in the fourth quarter it was $30 million that you spiked down in the third quarter.
So for the fourth quarter can you give us what the number might actually be or how we should think about that? It's Joe speaking.
I think you could look to that incremental piece of the spending for the fourth quarter being $40 to $45 million.
The next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So 2 more California agreement questions.
So the first one is if the California agreement had been in place in 2013 how much of an impact would it have had on the financials? I don't know if it's easier to do that relative to the 90% loss ratio or versus the $1.15 in earnings but just be interested in the sensitivity for '13.
Carl it's Joe.
I honestly don't recall.
We haven't looked since the close of second quarter.
I think it closed the second quarter that would have been substantial.
I think it would've been $20 million or so just a guess.
Research Division</strong> Sorry $20 million as a guess for the year or for a specific quarter? I think it was just for those first 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Just for the first 2 okay.
Carl this is John.
Be careful because we are getting some rate increases in October and in January that are going to help the overall profitability of the California plan as well as we have seen I think some pretty good strides in utilization management as we now have over a full year with the ABD's enrollment.
We've always talked about taking an era from 2 to 3 quarters to get utilization in line.
I think in California it took a little bit longer because when the ABDs were enrolled we had less flexibility to change treatment regimens.
And so we're now 15 to 18 months down the line we're able to do some managed care these patients were able to bring some of the utilization are more in line.
Research Division</strong> And then another question just on the difference between your agreement and HealthNet.
I think you said yours was 3 years in length versus theirs was 7 years.
Any difference in the rationale versus the answer to Chris' question? I'll take that one.
I've always said that I was not a big fan of this type of agreement because what it leads us doing is holding a receivable from the state of California and I'm the kind of guy that likes to have my money upfront.
So we did negotiate to have a shorter period of time for this agreement.
I think if you look at the deals though they are otherwise very very similar.
The magnitude of the settlement that we have is smaller than HealthNet's because our Medicaid enrollment back in the early 2003 2004 era was smaller and we had just insured time period.
But otherwise I think it's pretty much the same agreement.
And our last question comes from the line of Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Well sounds like we lost Matt.
Yes and we have no further questions at this time.
Well I want to thank all of you for joining us.
We will be having another Investor Day I believe in February.
And again it's uncharacteristic of me but despite the prior period development in Texas I am optimistic about the prospects.
I think we've done a good job of bringing down medical care costs and we've got huge growth opportunities in front of us.
So we look forward to seeing what 2014 brings.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Fourth Quarter and Year End 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded Monday February 10 2014.
And now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Juan José Orellana Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jason.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2013.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions.
As a reminder even our Investor Day presentation this coming Thursday where we will discuss guidance today we will only be taking questions related to our earnings release.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgments as of February 10 2014 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by the securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion.
First I want to say that John and I will be brief in our remarks today.
We will have a full afternoon with many of you at Thursday’s Investor Day in New York City.
There is too much happening at Molina to cover in a single phone call.
So today we will focus briefly on 2013.
On Thursday we will share our thoughts on 2014 and beyond.
I look forward to seeing you there.
For Molina Healthcare 2013 was another successful year of continuity growth and opportunity.
The results that we are reporting today conclude a year in which we strengthened the foundation of our existing business expanded into new markets added new products and prepared for the opportunities in front of us.
Profitability of its core operation is essential to any business.
This is why we've made such great efforts to stabilize medical costs in 2013.
During 2013 I'm pleased to report that eight of our nine legacy health plans reported increases in medical margin.
2013 was also a year of growth.
Our total revenues reached $6.6 billion a record for our company.
We expanded our national footprint by entering two additional key states Illinois and South Carolina.
Our entry to Illinois came by way of startup while South Carolina was achieved through an acquisition.
In our existing states we nearly doubled the size of the New Mexico health plan by assuming another health plan’s Medicaid contract.
We were awarded a long-term care contract in Florida we expanded statewide in Ohio and we secured five dual eligible contracts more than any other health plan in the country.
In addition last week the California Health and Human Services Agency notified us that Molina Healthcare will be offered a direct contract in Los Angeles County for the Duals Demonstration pilot.
This is an exciting development as it represents a new service area to complement our participation in Riverside San Bernardino and San Diego counties for the Duals Demonstration pilots.
We accomplished all of this while preparing our organization for the implementation of the Affordable Care Act requiring us to scale and build the infrastructure required to accommodate Medicaid expansion and the new marketplace products.
I’d like to take a moment to thank all of our employees for their hard work and their contributions during 2013 in transforming our collective aspirations into reality.
Of course all of these accomplishments have not come easily and much work remains to be done.
Pressure on premium rates increased spending on administration in preparation for the new enrollment and temporary delays in some programs continued to create a challenge for anyone involved in the Medicaid business.
Since 1981 when my father founded this company our success has been rooted in our ability to respond to and overcome the challenges in our industry never losing the focus on serving those most in need and least able to afford care.
Today we arrange care for over 2.1 million persons in 11 states building upon our leadership in serving the underserved we believe the coming years will take us much much further.
We're very excited about the future.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As Mario noted we accomplished a lot this year even while we were establishing a solid foundation for our future growth.
Today we reported full year earnings of $0.96 per diluted share on a GAAP basis or $3.13 per diluted share on an adjusted basis a substantial improvement over the earnings of $0.27 per diluted share on a GAAP basis or a $1.72 per diluted share on adjusted basis reported for the comparable period for 2012.
These results are consistent with our preannouncement on January 22nd.
Total revenues grew by 11% when compared to 2012 reaching a record $6.6 billion.
The revenue growth was driven primarily by increased enrollment and to a lesser extent through an increase in revenue per member per month.
Enrollment in 2013 grew to 1.9 million increasing by approximately 134 000 members when compared to 2012.
The enrollment gains came primarily from four states California Ohio New Mexico and Wisconsin.
In California and Ohio we added new members as we expanded into new service areas.
In New Mexico as Mario discussed we assume the membership associated with another Health Plans Medicaid contract and in Wisconsin we benefited from the exit of a local competitor.
Growth in our aged blind and disabled enrollment coupled with growth in our Medicare Advantage plans both of which come with higher premiums contributed to our growth in revenue per member per month.
While clearly a first quarter 2014 event and the only piece of news associated with 2014 that we will discuss this afternoon our consolidated enrollment in January grew to 2.1 million members an increase of nearly 200 000 members in just one month.
A large part of that enrollment gain is the result of our South Carolina health plan which started serving members on January 1st.
The remainder is new enrollment resulting from the expansion of the Medicaid program.
The additional revenue associated with these members will help us leverage the administrative infrastructure we’ve been investing in.
As Mario noted we made substantial improvements to the margins of our base business in 2013.
Other than in Illinois where operations commenced in September of 2013 medical margins improved in eight of our nine health plans last year.
Consolidated medical margin increased by approximately 45% year-over-year.
Consistent with the increase in medical margin our medical care ratio declined to 87.1% in 2013 compared with 90% for the full year of 2012.
As we have discussed before the improvement in medical margins was partially offset by higher general and administrative expense.
The need to prepare for enrollment growth associated with our South Carolina and New Mexico acquisitions Florida and New Mexico long-term care programs Medicaid expansion in six states Duals Demonstration in five states and the entry into the marketplace in nine states required us to spend about $135 million during 2013 in G&amp;A expenses above and beyond G&amp;A expenses associated with our base business.
There was very little revenue in 2013 to offset this additional G&amp;A expense.
As a result of this necessary growth in expenses general and administrative expenses grew to 10.1% of total revenue in 2013 from 8.8% in 2012.
This higher G&amp;A spend was the main reason why we guided to a breakeven fourth quarter when we announced third quarter results at the end of October.
Absent the unfavorable premium adjustment in Washington that Mario announced at our appearance at the J.P.
Morgan Conference on January 13th fourth quarter results came in as we told you they would.
As of December 31 2013 the company had cash and investments of around $1.7 billion including approximately $365 million at the parent.
If you recall in February of 2013 we raised $550 million by issuing convertible debt.
As we’ve discussed in the past accounting for this type of debt requires the recording of non-cash charges.
In 2013 non-cash charges associated with the amortization of convertible senior notes and lease financings were $0.31 per diluted share.
This further validates our decision to present the adjusted EPS metric which we believe better reflects how we manage our business.
Finally as Mario emphasized we will be hosting our Investor Day Conference in New York City this Thursday February 13 at 12:30 p.m.
At that time we will be discussing our 2014 guidance as well as other business topics.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good evening.
First question at our conference you mentioned that you laid out the states where you feel like you’re going to get full reimbursed with the industry tax.
You laid out some states that are like California and Ohio and Texas where you expect to get the tax itself but [inaudible] [the gross up] [ph].
Just curious if you can give us an update there? Justin we absolutely can you give an update and when you come on Thursday we’ve got a nice schedule that will be going through the details where we stand on a state-by-state basis.
Okay.
Also any numbers in terms of your expectations for perhaps the spending in 2014 or is that another one that you are going to give at the investor…? That’s another Thursday answer.
Okay.
[Inaudible] $120 million of spending? That’s a number I hadn’t heard before.
Did you discuss that before? The number is $135 million Justin.
We have discussed it before but we didn’t include the fourth quarter spend because we hadn’t done that yet.
Okay.
So that -- those are dollars where you feel like essentially there’s $135 -- $135 million of earnings [spread] [ph] this year? That’s right.
How much do you expect to reoccur next year? We will be going through that on Thursday.
Okay.
Last question then there has been a little bit of a discussion on the pickup on cost front throughout both the Medicare Advantage and commercial sectors we’ve heard less on the Medicaid side.
Can you talk a little bit about what you saw in the fourth quarter on cost trend and any pockets where you might have seen an increase there? No.
In fact for the full year as talked about medical margin increased and the MCR went down.
So there was nothing unexpected for the fourth quarter.
Okay.
I know [inaudible] you respond nothing in the fourth quarter.
The [inaudible] a little bit higher than we expected.
Nothing near that we would -- they were in line with your expectations so what you are saying even for the fourth quarter? I think - it’s Joe speaking.
I think in line with our expectation ex the impact of that Washington issue Mario discussed at JPM.
Great.
Thanks a lot for the color guys.
Thanks Justin.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
I’ll stick with 2013.
So the MLR I guess in a couple of states New Mexico Utah Florida I guess I know it doesn’t necessarily count a couple of months but Illinois as well came in a little bit higher than we were looking for.
Would you determine -- would you say any of the states were out of ordinary I know they moved - lot of the state fluctuations on a quarterly basis et cetera but no change in trend or nothing that you saw in any of those specific states? Josh are you talking about quarter or full year? Quarter 4Q.
4Q for New Mexico I think probably we had to do with just the influx of the new membership Florida I don’t know Joe could speak to that.
I don’t think there was anything really unaligned in Florida.
We’ve had some -- we’ve had some in-patient cost pressure in Florida.
We think mainly [high to unusual] [ph] number of high [dollar case] [ph] there’s nothing out of the ordinary -- nothing exceptional though.
Okay.
When you say you have that how long has that been [inaudible]? I think it’s a trend in Florida we probably see since early fall.
Okay.
And is that specific is that higher dollars per claim or are you seeing more high dollar claim? I think we’re seeing higher dollars per claim.
It’s a pretty small population.
So obviously they can do pretty easily.
Got you.
But I think it’s fair to say more intensive cases not more intensity to the cases so to speak.
Okay.
And then the MMIS business do you guys have an EBITDA number for the quarter? We have done an operating income number which we’ve shared.
[We’ll give you an update] [ph] [inaudible].
Great.
[We can assist you] [ph] with what we’ve been running.
Okay.
Maybe while you are looking for that did you guys give a South Carolina enrollment number? I know that was a driver of your -- I think you said the January enrolment was up for that in expansion.
But did you say John how much was South Carolina? We didn’t give that Josh.
We’ll give it to you Thursday.
Thursday.
Big day Thursday.
Big day.
The operating income for MMIS then I’m off of it? Yeah.
So that was running about -- that was about $12 million for the quarter Josh.
So a little higher than normal.
They’ve had a pretty good year as a result of upsells and that kind of item.
Okay.
That’s a bit much behind.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Josh.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I wanted to circle back to New Mexico.
I know that you guys go over some numbers in August and this quarter you have three months versus two months that’s having them on the book.
But I am just wondering if that was the sole drivers for the sequential uptick is just having them one more month in the quarter.
And then if so what kind of MLRs [on your book] [ph] running at to cause such as impact? I will just speak to -- certainly this is Joe speaking Sarah.
I speak to certainly there are always some degree of cost pressure bringing on a new population.
We have also gone a couple of years there with actually some [inaudible] small rate increases but actually a few negative rate increases -- decreases I guess that would be.
So I think we are definitively feeling compared then the past I think we are feeling a little bit more cost pressure than we have in New Mexico in the past.
Can you remind us when rates are reset there when you have a chance to renegotiate that? They have been moving around a lot there.
There was a -- generally they traditionally been set July 1st.
I think there was a further adjustment 12/01 of 2012 as a matter of fact but I think the last two July 1s have been slight decreases.
Got it.
And last question was just on California.
There was a sequential improvement there.
I believe the settlement doesn’t kick in until Jan 1.
You guys had some possibly headwinds from beginning on some of the new members that entered.
So should we think about that change mainly as a rate update or was there any improvements in medical management going on sequentially that helped that business? The answer to your question is both Sarah.
We did get rate increase in a couple of counties effective October 1.
And then the California team has been doing a lot to bring down inpatient utilization and I think it’s ended up also now to the financials.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus</strong> Hey guys good afternoon.
So few things.
First John you said $0.31 of non-cash charges in full year 2013 related to your convert.
How much of that was in fourth quarter? That’s a Joe question.
After that question Tom I look that up.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
Second question I think I know the answer but just a reminder in Texas MLR was up quite a bit.
I think that was because last year was influenced by the reversal of some reserving.
Is that occurred? That’s correct.
Nicolaus</strong> So this year is more normalized.
I am sorry yes.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And then lastly is there -- somewhat of a conceptual question.
Is there a desire on your part to put as much as expense into 2013 as possible given all of the growth opportunities in moving parts in 2014 like maybe more so than out years? Tom I wouldn’t put it that way.
I think that sort of the converse is true.
There was a lot of money spent building infrastructure in preparation for all these new contracts and expansion.
It had to be done in 2013.
In part it was driven by these readiness reviews where the states wanted to see that we were fully staffed for the new patients and that we were hurt by the fact that some of these things got delayed.
So really it wasn’t a matter of our desire to put the costing of 2013 it just worked out that way.
All right.
Tom it’s Joe again.
Just let me say something speaky as Chief Accounting Officer we put the expenses and the revenues where they belong not where we likened to be.
So let me just clarify that your question about the convert is $0.90 for the three months in to 12/31.
Remember we did that in February so your full year is going to be -- your fourth quarter run rate is going to be little different than your full year.
Nicolaus</strong> All right great.
Then lastly maybe to give us a little hip on EPS 2014? On Thursday.
Nicolaus</strong> Got it.
See you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Carter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
So realizing it’s early can you just give us any color on how the Illinois ABD is tracking versus kind of your expectations I know that MLR was not even 7% but just any thoughts there in terms of rates and the MLR? It's Joe speaking.
I just think it's too early.
We received our first membership in September and that was only I think less than 100 members it's been ramping up very slowly.
If anything we've been a little disappointed at the rate at which the membership has come on.
But right now the population is just too small to speak to that.
And any I mean probably same answer but any thoughts on the Florida long-term care can you just tell us what you kind of book in that MLR? We've brought on 3000 lives effective December and we're booking that at around just below 90s.
Below 90s you said? Below 90s.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
So if you adjust for the 135 000 lives that you brought on in South Carolina it only looks like the enrollment grew about 65 000 or 3%.
I would have expected that number to be bigger given the markets with Medicaid expansion so any color on why the growth hasn't been as big? Yeah Carl this is Mario.
I think that one of the things we're seeing is that the government's reporting huge numbers people that are qualifying for Medicaid.
The problem is getting them over to the Medicaid agency and enrolled and in many cases that means they have to go to a state or a county office.
There has not been good electronic transfer of files from the marketplace to the state agencies.
And I think that what we're seeing is a delay on the expansion.
I expected we're going to see growth for Medicaid expansion throughout the first half of 2014 and I think that's the real issue here.
Appreciate it Thank you.
Our next comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Fischbeck your line is open please raise your question.
Hey sorry about that can you hear me now? Yeah.
We can hear you.
Go ahead Carl Okay.
Yeah.
So I want to go back to the California question it sounds like obviously rate increase we saw that and then the medical measures is there anything unusual in the Q4 MLR or is this the kind of a good way to think about the run rate? I don't think that there's anything unusual in the MLR for Q4 we'd be discussing our expectations for the business on Thursday I would just note that we talk about run rates remember we're getting all kinds of new products and all kinds of new populations.
So it's -- it maybe more challenging just to draw a straight trend line that way.
Okay that's still helpful but not I think unusual.
I guess your couple of line items in your payables a little bit unusual as far as the what was the $150 million non-risk provider payable number in the quarter and then the direct delivery cost grew dramatically do you know what those were? Sure it's Joe I'll speak to that.
First of all the non-risk payable it is essentially the payments with states have beginning to forward to us for disbursements to providers based upon what's [called] it A the Affordable Care Act PCP Parity requirements.
You'll recall the Affordable Care Act requires that physicians be paid at Medicaid -- physicians performing Medicaid or Medicaid services be paid at Medicare rates for certain services.
And for the most part states are handling that via a discrete payment to us which we then forward on to our own providers.
So what's you're saying is like a pass -- are pass-through dollars.
Yes so no impact to MLR? Correct it's purely a non-risk relationship we are just a conduit for healthy states are reimbursing providers at Medicare PCP rates.
The second issue is direct delivery we've had a ramp up throughout this year in direct delivery activity and Mario John and Terry can speak more to that essentially I think this part of our strategy to get closer to the patient and provide a specific care our members needed.
We've also entered into some other provider arrangements following that direct delivery area which are driving that cost higher.
Was that cost was skewed by the Medicaid parity?  No.
It was not.
Okay.
And then just finally with the Washington certainly it’s hard a little bit how much of the impact in Q4 is kind of outside of peer if you will I guess if you were to kind of normalize the numbers Washington just to have the current period impact what would the MLRP be? Yeah.
I don’t have that MLR handy but the impact would be about $7.5 million to the med margin line.
To the net margin line okay.
Med margin medical margin line so… Medical margin.
Yeah.
Correct.
Okay.
All right.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to come back to the $135 million you increased admin costs? How much of that was in the fourth quarter? The fourth quarter number I think that fourth quarter number was about $45 million.
Okay.
And then… $45 million or $50 million.
Okay.
And then just remind us when we think about that $135 million? Is that sort of investment spending I wouldn’t expect to be -- you wouldn’t expect to repeat or is that just baseline costs for people building et cetera that will keep the ongoing and the future will be covered by revenue? So Chris we talked about this I think in the last Investor Day.
There are two components of it.
One is sort of the one-time fixed cost find the additional servers gaining the configuration of the systems those types of things.
Then there was also for many states they are hiring a personnel that the state agencies wanted to see and placed before we get enrollment.
Unfortunately places like New Mexico and most to say especially South Carolina and Illinois things like delayed.
So we have these bodies and program like California was another one where the programs can’t get delayed but rather than let go very valuable employees we don’t wanted to expense.
So there are two components to that spend.
Anyway to sort of frame out which falls into which bucket expense wise? A pretty long and detail review of that at our last Investor Day I would just go back and take a look at that presentation.
Okay.
And then now one last and I don’t know this is a 2014 question or not but with the dual rates I mean to date how did they compare to your expectations in California -- California I am sorry? We are going to go through that again in New York we get you on Thursday.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Anna Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good evening.
So just I wanted to try to stick to 2013 if I can the first one is on Washington is there any read across to all those states in terms of retrospective rates which you have? I don’t think there is any read across I think that was… Idiosyncratic Yes.
Thank you.
Okay.
And then the second one is just even near 2013 any color on Medicaid and exchange enrolment you are talking about the welcome-mat effect and sees like one of your peer is not optimistic on it so is that something that we should look forward to? We have talked though welcome-mat effect being somewhere between 5% and 10% I think is what we said and until we see something otherwise that’s where we are going to stay with.
5% to 10% growth off of what you have.
That’s right.
About 5% to 10% off that population that is eligible.
I would say what we have talked about is absent the welcome-mat effect enrollment would be 5% to 10% less than what it is with the welcome-mat effect.
Okay.
Got it.
Got it.
The last question is I think when we looked at your statutory filings it seems like I mean certainly normalize your medical margins but in couple of states like Florida and Texas and I just look at the times of margin normalization it seems like you are slower than some of the other players any thoughts on that and if it’s the population health management that is slower to take effect or is that nothing we should be reading or seeing through into that? Always conscious folks kind of read anything from statutory filings.
So I shouldn’t is that (inaudible).
So just at the quarterly progression it seems like it was very slower.
I’m sorry could you phrase the question again.
I think you’re talking about Florida and Texas I got that far.
Could you phrase the question again please? Yes so just in terms of normalizing the medical margin say in some of the states.
It sound like in terms of the speed to normalization Molina was slower.
And I guess the rate adjustments are probably accruing at the same times.
And I’m just wondering if I should read anything into that or is it just a way of reporting because the stat filings can be misleading sometime so.
You’re asking us to compare us to our competitors and draw some inferences and we can’t do that.
What we can say is how our own business is stacking up in Texas and Florida.
I think that frankly Joe one of the reasons that Florida MCR went up in the fourth quarter is because we didn’t get the big book of business the long-term care business which we booked at above 90% MCR.
Small population with very large premiums and I think Texas had a pretty good quarter.
So again it just hard to compress to compare in terms of speed normalization against anyone else.
Okay.
We know what else is offline now just shared with the Joe and to see if get some feedback there.
Thanks.
Terrific he's looking forward to that.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
On the $135 million question in the 45 to 50 in the fourth quarter did you spend all that you intended to spend was that on your target for the quarter? It’s Joe speaking and generally yes.
And does all that was all that booked Joe in G&amp;A or with some of that of a medical nature? No that’s specifically G&amp;A.
I think we talked last time about some substantial advertising expenditure that we are going to make in the fourth quarter.
We made those.
It’s a variety of buyers.
But -- I would say the increase we’re talking about is all revenue for which we I mean expense for which we haven’t seen directly yet.
Okay.
And so then coming back if I make the adjustment for your answer to the earlier question about the Washington impact.
If I make that adjustment your MCR I think was up year-over-year and up sequentially by maybe 20 30 basis points.
Is that -- several ways but… Dave woke up there for a second.
I got the point I think you were looking at Washington and adjusting for $7.5 million revenue I lost you after that sorry.
Right okay so after adjusting for that MCR is still up year-over-year and sequentially.
You’ve highlighted some in-patient costs in Florida.
Other than that is there anything we need to be aware of that influenced MCR in the fourth quarter? I think if you’re comparing over the fourth quarter of 2014 -- 2012 you have to look to about $30 million of favorable prior period development in the fourth quarter as we called out in Texas.
So again if you are comparing the fourth quarter of 2012 it was $30 million of favorable PPD in Texas.
I think beyond that I think what we’re seeing in fourth quarter is essentially seasonality and that's about it and long ways they are growing slight impact from Illinois in Florida.
Okay.
Well this is Mario.
When you talk about Washington the thing that strikes me as if you look at the PMPM medical cost for the quarter was about $203 in 2012 and it's about $204 in 2013.
So the medical cost haven’t change that much.
The real story I think in the Washington was the revenue difference the PMPM revenues were down.
So that I think is the issue at Washington.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
You became new competitor for duals in L.A.
County where you were previously a subcontractor.
Do you expect new competitors in your counties where you use subcontractors for duals? This is Mario.
No we don't expect any change to the mix of contractors in San Bernardino or San Diego counties.
Three plans were added in Los Angeles Caremore CareFirst and Molina but we don't expect any other changes.
And then looking at your list of Safe Harbors sort of risk factors you changed a couple of them one of which was just ascertains the wording around the fully grossed up reimbursement of the premium taxes to highlight the fully grossed up component should I take that as a positive that you now have most of the premium taxes itself taking care of or should I take that as a negative but there's more risk you are getting in the grossed up than it was before? This is Mario.
You should take that as a change by Jeff Barlow who wanted some clarity.
I think we are trying to be more clear about what the risk is.
Okay.
And you added another one which is the efforts by states to recoup previously paid mounts including-- I think the Tropicana Washington as well.
But you talked about other states potentially.
Is there some other state that you are worried about a similar retroactive reimbursement the way it happened in Washington? No we are not.
But I think that we want to make that a general risk factor because it could happen in other states.
We don’t have it on the horizon right now but given that's happened in Washington we just want to make people aware at different time-to-time states might do something like this.
Okay.
And the Washington thing is that with the way you are talking about in here with the psychotropic drugs is that correct? Yes.
Okay.
And then lastly you added risk factor about hep C.
Is that just because we are closer to 2014 or was there some change in terms of your expectations for what’s going on with hep C and the new drugs that are coming out there? No I think that really reflects the fact that there are new drugs available that were not available in the past.
Also the recommendations for increased screening we really don't know what the prevalence of hepatitis C is in the population and there have not been very effective treatments in the past.
So this is an area that's evolving.
Okay.
So it’s nothing new other than the complete factor that there are new drugs coming out.
But it’s unchanged your view of how the structure is coming out.
I think it’s that plus the fact that the new screen recommendations.
The prevalence of hepatitis c is really unknown and the CDC estimate is about 3 million.
It was a study from UCLA that came out and says closer to 6 million and until we get more testing we won’t really know.
But we will discuss that more on Thursday.
Okay.
And then last question on Illinois the $1200 PMPM is that a good PMPM rate to look at that business going forward and then perhaps for all duals or is that something unique about this quarter since the starting out? Yeah.
We don’t have duals there yet.
So I think it’s probably little early to extrapolate especially given the small numbers that we have and we don't yet have the duals folded in yet.
Okay.
Thank you.
Again that’s just for the ABD in Illinois not for the duals.
Got it.
Our last question today comes from Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Thanks a lot.
I was wondering if you guys could more specifically address hep C whether or not you’ve seen anything meaningful on the cost side there first off.
Thursday.
Okay.
And then secondly as you're dealing with these newer populations any challenges on continuity of care provisions relative to our implementation of your medical management protocols? I don't think that there's anything in terms of the continuity of care that is not something that we haven’t already encountered in previous rollouts yeah.
Okay.
Thanks for the update.
Look forward to Thursday.
Okay.
So I’m assuming there are no further questions.
And I just want to remind you all that we will be discussing guidance for 2014 and a number of other factors which have been alluded to you today.
And we hope to see you at the Investor Day Thursday afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded Thursday May 1 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Juan José Orellana Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you George.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2014.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will call open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on current our expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of May 1 2014 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone.
And as always thank you for your interest in Molina Healthcare.
As you review our financial results for the quarter you'll see that our performance reflects actions that we talked about at our Investor Day in February.
We are experiencing considerable revenue and enrollment growth.
We are transforming from an acute care company to a chronic care company.
We are diversifying by winning new contracts and entering new states.
We are aligning our resources and skills to gain greater administrative leverage and we continue to build on our framework for dramatic expansion in 2014 and beyond.
For the quarter we delivered adjusted net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.64.
Our operating results were strong despite the headwinds we communicated at our Investor Day.
Of considerable interest in the investors during the first quarter was the timing difference between expense and revenue recognition associated with the reimbursement of the health insurance fees.
As expected the company had not secured agreements with all of our states prior to the quarter end.
And as a result only recognized reimbursement and tax effect in Florida Illinois Ohio Washington and Wisconsin.
Nevertheless we remain optimistic that agreements with our remaining states will be resolved prior to the close of 2014.
While much has happened during the first quarter in both our industry and our business not much has actually changed from what we reported at the Investor Day.
So let me focus on some of the things that have changed.
Earlier this month CMS reported that between October and February nearly 12 million people have been determined eligible for Medicaid and CHIP but that only 3 million people have actually enrolled in these programs during the same period.
The increase in Medicaid enrollment across the country is encouraging but the gap between those deemed eligible and those that are enrolled continues to point to the systemwide hurdles and resource constraints related to processing applications for millions of individuals.
However it's important to note that although the March 31 deadline for marketplace has passed under the Medicaid program people can apply for coverage at any time.
This will enable us to continue to grow as the year goes by and as enrollment barriers are overcome.
The surge in Medicaid applications during the open-enrollment period still contributed to a considerable enrollment gain to Molina during the first quarter.
Specifically our health plans and states participating in Medicaid Expansion added 133 000 new Medicaid expansion lives accounting for 60% of our sequential enrollment growth.
As a reminder Medicaid expansion lives are reimbursed at higher per-member per-month premiums.
To put these premiums in perspective our new expansion lives are expected to generate approximately $1 billion in annualized revenue.
This is almost the same amount of premium generated by our Ohio health plan in 2013.
Enrollment due to the so-called woodwork effect at our health plans has not yet had a material impact on our results but we anticipate that we could see higher enrollment related to it in the upcoming months.
Also contributing to enrollment growth during the quarter was our expansion and diversification efforts in South Carolina.
Effective January 1 2014 we began serving members in all 46 counties under the state's new full risk Medicaid managed care program.
At the end of the first quarter we had membership of approximately 126 000 members distinguishing Molina as the second-largest Medicaid health plan in South Carolina.
Our expansion into South Carolina demonstrates that there are still start up and acquisition opportunities in states where we do not currently operate.
For many years we've been building for the opportunities associated with the dual eligibles that are now within sight.
While technically a second quarter event we are pleased to report that we've already enrolled nearly 9 000 fully integrated dual eligible members across California Illinois and Ohio.
Fully integrated duals are individuals for whom we receive premiums from both Medicaid and Medicare.
California has generated nearly 60% of our initial dual eligibles enrollment.
Voluntary enrollment for the demonstration program in California called CAL-Medi-Connect started April 1 in 3 out of the 4 counties where we were selected to participate: Riverside San Bernardino and San Diego.
Voluntary enrollment in Los Angeles County is slated to begin in June 1.
Our corporate and field teams are working diligently to complete health risk assessment calls and call volumes are being handled and we are meeting all compliant standards.
The passive enrollment process for Riverside San Bernardino and San Diego begins today May 1 and on July 1 for Riverside -- I'm sorry for Los Angeles County.
Dual eligibles are elderly or disabled and have chronic illness or even multiple chronic illnesses including mental illness and are more likely because of their low income to remain continuously eligible for government programs.
The demographic and health care characteristics of the dual eligible members requires additional outreach and individual care plans making Molina exceptionally well suited to address the needs of this population.
Our focus has always been to take care of those most in need of health care and least able to afford it.
We're excited that California remains on track in terms of the implementation of its duals demonstration program.
However a delay has emerged in Michigan where you may recall we were chosen to participate in the dual eligible demonstration in 2 counties Wayne and Macomb which have a combined dual eligible population of approximately 75 000 individuals.
Last month Michigan finalized its memorandum of understanding with CMS which included a delay in implementation timeline.
The demonstration will now begin no earlier than January 1 2015 and will continue through December 31 2017.
In the 2 counties in which we operate Wayne and Macomb the opt-in enrollment period will begin no earlier than March 1 2015 with enrollments effective May 1 2015.
In Texas we received notice from the Texas Health and Human Services Commission that the duals implementation has been delayed to March 1 2015.
In South Carolina the duals eligible demonstration was originally slated for implementation in July 2014 and has now been delayed by the state to January 1 2015.
Finally there have been various headlines in the news regarding the new Hepatitis C treatment drug Sovaldi and how states will pay for this extremely expensive therapy.
For Molina coverage of the cost of this new hepatitis treatment is included in our first quarter results.
However we anticipate an increase of cases where the new Hepatitis C treatments are requested as new all-oral therapies in addition to Sovaldi are being approved by the FDA later this year so we're keeping a close eye on this situation.
We're still awaiting guidance for many of our states on how Sovaldi is going to be handled and how they are going to pay for it.
We continue to believe that the cost of Sovaldi are not included in the rates we received and remain in discussion with states on how we will be reimbursed for these costs.
In the meantime in the relevant states we are rigorously applying our clinical guidelines to request for treatment and so far the number of applicable cases has been low.
However we remain extremely concerned about the high cost of Sovaldi and other new Hepatitis C treatments and how they will affect state Medicaid budgets.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As Mario highlighted earlier we reported adjusted earnings of $0.64 per diluted share; and on a GAAP basis earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.10.
As a reminder we introduced our methodology for the adjusted net income per diluted share calculation at our Investor Day last February.
These adjustments add back non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation and noncash interest expense.
We believe that these adjustments best reflect our financial performance.
We're pleased with our first quarter results which have developed as much as we anticipated they would when we spoke to you last in New York in February.
We have been speaking for some time about the dramatic changes that would come our way in 2014.
These changes make meaningful comparisons difficult to our results of a year ago or even to the previous quarter.
We outlined many of the items affecting year-over-year comparability in today's press release for your reference so rather than revisiting the differences let me highlight some of the accomplishments achieved this quarter.
Premium revenue grew by 21% almost $350 million from what we reported for the fourth quarter of 2013 only 12 weeks ago.
At 88.7% of premium revenue Medical care costs were flat compared to last quarter generating over $37 million more in medical margin than we reported a year -- a quarter ago.
General and administrative expense fell from 11% of revenue in the fourth quarter to only 9.1% of revenue 90 days later.
So with that as background let me dive into the details.
First let's take the revenue for this quarter.
The major drivers of the $350 million increase over the fourth quarter of last year were: Medicaid Expansion in California New Mexico and Washington which added $200 million in revenue in the first quarter; the start up of our South Carolina health plan which added another $96 million to revenue; increased long-term care membership in Florida which added $28 million to revenue over the fourth quarter; and the rollout of Centennial Care in New Mexico which increased our revenue for the quarter by $27 million.
This is separate from the increased revenue related to Medicaid expansion.
Now moving onto medical costs.
We are pleased that the medical care ratio at 88.7% was unchanged from the fourth quarter of last year.
MCR was flat even though we added new products and services which tend to exhibit higher initial medical costs due to factors such as pent-up demand.
The medical care ratio for our Medicaid expansion members was about 88% on a consolidated basis.
We did record a high MCR or 94% for our South Carolina health plan.
High medical care ratios are typical for start-up health plans when members are transitioning from fee-for-service to managed care.
For both Medicaid expansion and South Carolina it's still too early to assess what the steady-state medical care ratio will be.
Again we are happy to see a consolidated MCR unchanged from the fourth quarter.
We often see higher medical costs in the first quarter of the year compared to other quarters.
We are also pleased to note that we have started to experience the administrative cost leverage we have talked about at our last Investor Days.
This was a big story for us this quarter.
General and administrative expenses were 9.1% of revenue for the first quarter of 2014 a decrease from 11% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The administrative ratio improved even though approximately $20 million or $0.19 per diluted share in G&amp;A costs were spent during the first quarter with no related revenue.
As the new programs are implemented and their associated revenue finally starts hitting our books we expect to gain greater administrative leverage resulting in an even lower administrative expense ratio.
Our full year guidance for 2014 anticipates that our administrative expense ratio will continue to decline to 7.5% for the fourth quarter of 2014.
There are 3 other items that require special mention this quarter: First the ACA health insurer fee.
As of today we have signed contracts calling for the reimbursement of the fee and its related tax effects with Florida Ohio Illinois Washington and Wisconsin.
This means that we have reached agreement for full reimbursement of the fee for approximately 50% of our Medicaid revenue.
We remain optimistic that we will reach agreements for reimbursement with all of our states before the end of 2014.
But for right now for the first quarter of 2014 we have recognized the impact of the entire fee and its related tax effects as an expense but we have recognized only half of the related Medicaid revenue that we expect to receive.
This means that the first quarter revenue and pretax income is about $16 million or $0.15 per diluted share less than it would have been had we recognized full state reimbursement of the health insurer fee.
Bear in mind that the fee in any related revenue we recognize is prorated evenly across the year.
Next we were unable to recognize about $6 million or about $0.06 per diluted share of quality-related revenue at our Texas health plan this quarter.
We spoke about this in February.
The state of Texas has changed some of its measurements used for the quality-related revenue.
Since we don't have prior history for these new measurements it is difficult to estimate current year progress towards these goals this early in the year.
Thus we have not recognized quality revenue for these new metrics as of yet.
We believe that we should be able to recognize most of this revenue later in the year.
Lastly our effective tax rate.
As you no doubt can see from our financial results the nondeductibility of the ACA health insurer fee results in a much higher tax rate this year.
We have recorded an effective tax rate of about 54% for this quarter.
As hard as it is to compare the first quarter of this year and the fourth quarter of last year it is even more difficult to compare our results this quarter with the first quarter of 2013 given the significant changes to our business.
All of the caveats I mentioned regarding the absence of reimbursement a part of the health insurer fee the revenue gross up required due to the nondeductibility of that fee and the unrecognized Texas quality revenue still apply to the first quarter of this year.
Lastly we have a very different effective tax rate between the first quarter of 2014 and 2013 due to the nondeductibility of the health insurer fee.
Again you will need to interpret our comparative financial performances yourselves should you want to take -- undertake such an analysis.
But I encourage you to consider all the points that I have made as you do so.
We feel that year-over-year comparisons are not the most valuable way to measure our progress towards our defined goals.
Operating cash flow was strong at $210 million for the quarter.
We added a significant amount of premium and correspondingly we've strengthened our reserves as evidenced by an increase in days in claims payable.
Days in claims payable increased to 46 from 43 at the end of the 2013.
As of March 31 2014 the company had cash and investments of around $1.9 billion including approximately $340 million at the parent company.
We are reaffirming guidance for 2014 of adjusted net income per diluted share in the range of $4.00 to $4.50 and net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis in the range of $1.65 to $2.15.
We had a strong quarter.
But as you know from following us over the years it is not our practice to fine tune guidance on a quarterly basis particularly when we provided guidance just 12 weeks ago.
Mario talked about delays and the implementation of the duals programs in Michigan South Carolina and Texas.
It is important to note that these delays have a minimal effect on 2014 guidance and no material effect to our long-term revenue growth target of $12.5 billion.
While we are keeping our guidance range unchanged because of our positive Q1 results we now have a corresponding bias towards the higher end of fiscal year 2014 EPS guidance range.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sarah James from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> As some of your dual contracts have started to come online has there been any updates or developments any understanding of opt-out likelihood? Your assumptions seem to be a little bit more conservative than some of your peers? This is Mario.
We think it's a little too early to start commenting on the opt-out rates.
Remember that these patients have the ability to opt out any time throughout the course of the program.
And for our guidance we assumed a 50% opt-out rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned benefiting some -- Sovaldi not being on the preferred drug list in some markets in first quarter which is similar to comments that your peers have made but some states have moved it onto the PDL for April while others like Texas may not do so until the third quarter.
So I was wondering if you could help us understand how much of your book was exposed to that drug cost in the first quarter versus how you think about it being exposed in the second quarter given the recent PDL update? Well this is Mario again.
I think that we will see more exposure going forward.
I think Gilead reported that only 7% of the sales in the first quarter were from Medicaid although they didn't break out how much of the sales on the HMO side were to Medicaid patients covered by health plans.
But I do think we will see this grow as the year unfolds.
At the same token when we first started talking about this at the beginning of the year most states didn't recognize the problem.
I think now it's widely recognized by state Medicaid directors that this is an issue and I think there's growing acknowledgment by state Medicaid programs that the rates that we initially received did not include the cost of this new drug.
So the story is evolving and I think that perhaps next quarter we'll be able to tell you a little bit more about utilization but also a little bit more about what the state Medicaid programs are doing to appropriately reimburse us for costs.
Our next question comes from Joshua Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the Medicaid expansion population.
I know it's early in terms of trends and it sounds like you guys were accruing I guess you said at 88% MLRs.
When do you think you'll have a better handle as to what the claims looks like? I'm assuming you've got some of the January claims processed and maybe a lot of the pharmacy claims et cetera? And then the second part to the question is where are these members getting enrolled? Are the states aware of who these individuals are and they're auto assigning them? Or a lot of these people are getting signed up through utilization of the health care system i.e.
hospital providers signing them up when they have some sort of acute episodes.
Josh this is John.
With respect to your -- the first part of your question.
I think we'll have a much better handle by the end of the second quarter in terms of what the true utilization patterns are going to be.
And as far as how folks are singing up we don't have a lot of visibility into that.
If they do identify a provider and they communicate that to the state and we get that information then we can match them up.
But I don't know at this point how many do and how many of them are just being auto assigned.
Research Division</strong> I guess if you look at your January enrollment for example in some of the states where you've seen some robust growth there are you able to see some sort of episode or some sort of cost usage early in their assignment of health plans? Or was there a January 1 sort of bucket that came through so it looks like these are more evenly distributed across the population? We didn't notice any particular pattern of how people were enrolled Josh sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right no problem.
Just one second question just on the exchange I know it's only 8 000 lives for you.
Is that majority in California? And then any thoughts on where those individuals are coming on versus where you guys priced for them? Well the state that has the largest enrollment right now is California so it is the -- where the majority of -- probably half the 2/3 are coming out of California.
What was the second part of your question Josh? Research Division</strong> In terms of cost trends or any early signs of the age or demographics how they're lining up relative to what your expectations were? Yes.
Actually the demographics are very similar to what we expected when we made our projections so we're pleased about that.
A little over half of them are coming on in the Silver plan.
91% of them are receiving some sort of government subsidy so it's all very consistent with what we expected.
In terms of the medical costs I think it's probably still too early to say but the pharmacy costs seem to be tracking within expectations.
Our next question comes from Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mike Newshel in for Justin.
So I kind of like to go back to Hep C cost.
If you can is it possible to -- can you give us a number of patients or the dollar spending for the quarter? And sort of embedded within -- embedded in guidance do you have -- there's something embedded in there for the full year? Or you're just assuming that if it does accelerate that the states are going to come back and cover for you? Well we're not going to break out the number of prescriptions or utilizing patients.
We typically don't get into that kind of granular detail on our medical costs so we're not going to do it here either.
I don't believe that it was built into our guidance because we frankly did not anticipate this based on the rates that we were given from the state.
So we see this as something outside of guidance.
We are negotiating probably right now with about half the states over adjustments to payments whether it be through carve outs or a pass through or some of the mechanism or revisiting this in the rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more question on the ramp up of -- or actually the ramp down of the administrative expense ratio over the course of the year.
You updated the fourth quarter.
Any update you can give for the second and third quarter in terms of the ramp down given the delays in duals launches? Sure.
This is John.
If you go back to our Investor Day slide presentation there was a slide that had quarterly estimate for what we thought the MN expense ratio would be.
I don't off the top of my head know what it is for Q2 and Q3.
But if you want to go back to the slide you should be able to find it.
Research Division</strong> I know and it's still valid? Yes that's correct.
It's Joe speaking.
We don't think the sliding of those duals program is going to affect guidance one way or the other.
Our next question comes from Chris Rigg with the Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just to come back to the exchange population again.
I know you get paid slightly different rates because there's obviously some acuity differences but more generally and we've heard some of the hospital guys talk about substantial declines in their uninsured visits primarily in the expansion states.
And I guess can you give us a sense for whether you've seen a materially higher level of inpatient or hospital outpatient utilization among the newly enrolled by the expansion versus traditional populations? Well we -- are you talking about the expansion population or the exchange population? Because it sounds like you're mixing the 2.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes I meant to say the Medicaid expansion population so the 133 000 that you guys highlighted.
Yes.
It's Joe's speaking.
Frankly those claims have been slow to come in.
And we really don't -- we just don't have a read on their -- the medical claims development there how it breaks down between inpatient and outpatient.
Again we're confident it's in that high 80s MCR but we just haven't had a huge amount of claims development.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the build and the claims inventory in the balance sheet.
Is that just due to your expected ramp in growth? Or is there something else going on there? It's Joe speaking again that's tied to our growth nothing unusual in claims process or anything.
Our next question comes from Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the exchange this year obviously about 8 000 lives in the first quarter.
May I ask what are you guys expecting now for the year? Is it still around the 15 000 point or after April this is going to vary a little bit from that? This is John.
We did see a pick up in enrollment towards the end of March early April so that's going to grow.
I don't know it's going to get much beyond the 15 000 that we're talking about.
Research Division</strong> So switching specifically to Washington there I saw a little bit of an increase in the MCR obviously an expansion state there was that part of the driver of the increase? Or share anything else was highlighting in Washington specifically? It's Joe speaking yes it's expansion which is running [indiscernible] again of what we expect is running a little bit about what we traditionally run for the other populations in Washington.
And I think we talked to the end of last year about a little bit of rate pressure in Washington which is carried over into this year.
Our next question comes from Ana Gupte with Leerink.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on the Medicaid Expansion and the claims experience that you saw this quarter.
You talked about the 1Q being -- coming in favorable relative to expectations.
How much of that is due to any kind of weather and/or the flu impact? And on the Medicaid Expansion you said you haven't seen a lot of claims but are you trying to steer the patients more to your point about being a chronic care company to the primary care physician when they come on board? Or will they just stand up in the ER? And how long does the claim cycle take for you to start seeing something? Might we see something that may have already happened in 1Q? There's a bunch of questions in there.
Let me see if I can hit them all.
In terms of our expectations in whether a favorable pickup in Q1 because of -- I think what we said was we're coming at our expectation which was the high 80s like 88%.
So I'm not sure if there was any favorability there.
In terms of where are we expecting them to get care all of the patients that we get we do try to steer towards the primary care doctor as opposed to the ER.
These folks may traditionally have used the ER as their primary care site but that's really not much different than any time we switch from a fee-for-service in the managed-care environment.
So we do try to connect them with their PCP.
We do welcome calls make sure they know who their primary care doctor is and encourage them to go in for that visit.
And last again it's just really too early to tell since we don't have a lot of claims experience yet to know what the utilization pattern is but I don't think we're seeing anything unusual.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes got it.
It's very early in the day.
And I just wanted to follow-up understanding again it's very early on the duals side.
You've enrolled some members and you're doing the health risk assessments I'm just trying to triangulate to your point around we should be looking at adjusted income.
And as you're seeing some of its early experiences and risk profiles with duals and Medicaid expansion and after you get your revenue that you're expecting on board what might we see as normalized MLRs and your administrative cost ratio and margin? What would be your best guess going forward compared to where you are today? Sure I think that for the year we're estimating medical care ratio of somewhere between 88% and 90% off the top of my head.
I'm going back to guidance.
And the admin cost we're expecting will continue to decline throughout the year.
We should have as we said fourth quarter about 7.5%.
And I think on average about 8% for the year.
89%...
Research Division</strong> I was thinking more about your $12.5 billion kind of long-term targets and so it shouldn't go beyond your one-time story in '14.
We all understand it's a transition here? True.
And what we've said consistently is we should exit 2015.
We're on a $12.5 billion run rate and our net income goal is 2% and that's on a GAAP basis so we'll be revisiting that in the next Investor Day to translate that into an adjusted earnings margin.
But our story is fairly consistent in terms of what we expect in terms of the margin and the revenue goals.
Research Division</strong> So still 2% okay.
Our next question comes from Chris Carter with Crédit Suisse.
I guess just first question.
Can you just talk about if you experienced any benefit in the quarter from weather or more benign flu season? This is John.
I think the flu season was about the same as it was last year.
So I don't know -- certainly better than when we had H1N1 in 2009 but I don't know if I would say it's a benefit.
In terms of the weather this is Mario a lot of that weather affected more the eastern part of the country.
If you look a large part of our membership is in places like California and Washington.
I don't think the weather had any impact on us.
Okay.
And then just curious I know that the California MLR looked pretty good.
I'm curious how that compared to the 3.25% target margin in the settlement agreement? And maybe if you had a swing positive or negative into that settlement account? This is John.
I think if you look in our Q which is also filed today we realized about a $5 million pickup from the settlement agreement.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question just looks like the cost of services ratio improved by around 250 bps sequentially.
were there any factors that drove the improvement in particular? And is this a good run rate for the rest of the year? That would seem to be trending a bit better than I was expecting there.
This is Joe speaking.
We've seen a pretty good quarter with MMS in first quarter of this year.
It's a couple of things.
There has been some lift which we expect to continue from more claimed volume tied to Medicaid expansion.
There were also some revenue recognition related to projects being completed and onetime payments from the state.
I say if you can look at that the improvement is 50-50 split between those two.
So some of that improvement will carry forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just on the Texas MLR was up around 300 bps sequentially.
Was that all just not being able to recognize the quality revenues yet? Or were there any other factors that drove the MLR up a bit sequentially? It's Joe speaking again.
The big issue there in terms of that sequentially from fourth quarter is the at-risk quality revenue not recognized.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just last question I guess just swinging back to Sovaldi here.
Interested just how much does the determinations differ in the States where the drug is on the PDL as compared to those that aren't.
It was just interesting looking at the Florida Medicaid drug utilization report for the first quarter.
It showed that Sovaldi for Florida Medicaid was the most costly drug in the program even though they didn't even put it to the PDL till the end of the quarter.
So just thought it was interesting that we're already seeing that type of spend even in a state where it wasn't in the PDL.
So just interested in how -- the variability that occurs between states with it on the PDL as compared to those that are not.
Well we know that the state of Florida that they expect that -- Sovaldi to double their cost this year for the treatment of Hepatitis C so I think at least in that status it's going to be significant.
I can't give you data on a state-by-state basis.
And of course we only have limited exposure because we're only looking at what our patients are experiencing not what the entire state is doing.
Research Division</strong> Mario just on Florida is there any update you know of as to where the discussion stand? Because I think the budget was basically getting wrapped up right? So just wondering whether -- how the discussion on getting a rate adjustment filtered into that sort of last-minute discussions going on? I think there's a lot of activity even yesterday and today on that.
And I would say that it's a positive sign that the states are recognizing that this is an incremental cost.
And I think most states are now recognizing that it was not built into the rates.
Research Division</strong> So you feel positive they're going to make an adjustment then for the rates there? I think we're going to see some adjustments.
Like everything else though is it appropriate is it enough? Those are the kinds of things we always discuss with the states when they makes changes in the rates? Our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is Steve Baxter on for Kevin.
I wanted to come back to the balance sheet.
It looks like the claims in the inventory and the claims in inventory per member roughly doubled year-over-year.
I was wondering if you could provide some color on what's driving the increase? And whether you expect that to clear out or whether that might be a more stable kind of inventory level to think about going forward? It's Joe speaking.
The increase in inventory I think a better metric to look at would be to compare it to fourth quarter of last year but it's certainly and predominantly enrollment-driven.
Research Division</strong> Okay well I see that the claims per member were about 0.08 last year in the fourth quarter and now it looks like they're 0.013 -- or 0.13 so it seems like a pretty dramatic increase.
Well you're always going to have with -- as good a job frankly as we think we do in terms of claims payment when new populations come on you always tend to have a buildup with peak third fourth month fifth month of enrollment.
And it just speaks to the time it takes for that.
There's claims that show up in inventory and then to work through the backlog.
It takes a while maneuvering people on for doctors to get the claims and -- based on where the member belongs.
And this also underscores why the days in claims payable was up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that makes sense.
I appreciate the color.
And then just one follow up on the $5 million you recognized from the risk share restaurant agreement.
Was that on the duals site of enrollment or in the Medicaid side? It was on the Medicaid side.
No duals at first quarter in California.
Research Division</strong> Okay then.
So you're not really booking the duals at very high MLR then? Somewhere in the low 90s like you had kind of given a guidance? We haven't got any duals in the revenue side for the first quarter so we will book those as they start to come in Q2.
Our next question comes from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you tell us a little bit more about the woodwork effect? I know you haven't seen much of it yet but you talked about potentially seeing it going forward? Do you think that it's just held up sort of in process as we're moving through some of these people who've been identified as perhaps eligible for Medicaid that just haven't signed up yet? Is it a matter of going out and targeting these people from you guys? Or exactly what do you think is going on there? And when do you think that will start to show up in your numbers? This is Terry.
It varies by state but you've seen in the press that the high number of folks who've been found eligible but still had not really made it into the roles.
Remember there's a process by which people get on Medicaid and it can take months.
It varies sometimes [indiscernible] at the county level.
There have been issues with some of the state processing systems.
So in most cases we had seen delays in that.
And we expect it to be coming in as people work their way through that process.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that factored into your guidance as you sort of -- that enrollment process and you see them for those people coming in? Do you have sort of factored in in the last couple of quarters here showing up? Yes we do.
I think we went over that -- quantified that at the Investor Day.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Texas incentive fee is that in guidance at this point the $0.06? It's Joe speaking yes.
We expect to realize most of that.
I mean recognize most of that by the end of the year.
Our next question comes from David Windley from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on your MLR accrual on expansion lives.
I want to make sure I understand.
So I've heard you say 88% to 90% or that range a couple of times.
I've also heard you say that you haven't seen a lot of claims for them.
So can you help me again to understand your comfort level with that high 80s level if I have that right? And what allowances you're making for the low visibility relative to claims volume? This is Joe speaking.
Obviously when we have situations with light claims receipts we tend to err a little bit to the side of being cautious.
What we do clearly have though with expansion lives at this stage is we have very good pharmacy data of course.
And that is suggesting that we're tracking to where the lives are priced at by the state or perhaps a little better than that.
So I think it's fair to say we feel pretty good about that number.
Pharmacy date is a pretty good indication of where it's going to come in in time.
Research Division</strong> And taking that down to operating and pretax.
What are your -- what are the company's expectations for contribution margin on these lives? What's in guidance I guess what I mean by that? This is John.
In guidance we've got -- it varies a little bit by state but 88% is about the average.
If you go back to our Investor Day slide we sort of broke it down what we thought Medicaid Expansion will be on a state-by-state basis.
I don't know that the admin costs vary much so I'd use an average admin cost.
And that's how you can get to a margin.
And if you look towards the MD&amp;A discussion in our 10-Q you see where we talked a little bit about the blended premium rates for the different population routes.
So you can build it from that I think.
Our last question comes from Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Question for you on kind of the variation in the headwinds that you told us about -- at your Investor Day a couple of months ago versus the actual results.
And if I'm adding it up correctly it looks like you highlighted kind of $0.92 a share in headwinds and it looks like those are only turning out to be about $0.40 a share.
So big favorable swing.
Any 1 or 2 items you could highlight for us that would reconcile that sizable difference from 2 months ago? Sure it's Joe speaking.
When we called those out in New York the intent was to present in each of those areas the most extreme negative circumstances that could arise from those areas.
So obviously had all of those played out I think Slide 57 on our investor deck had all those played out as negative we would have had a disastrous quarter.
So I think the way to look at it is those were each worse case and what could develop.
That's not -- we don't set guidance so assuming every worse case is going to develop.
So that's the best I could express that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay okay very good.
It sounds like a lot of conservatism built into those numbers which were worst-case scenarios.
And if you had anybody worked those into their numbers they would've had a much lower number than how consensus work out for this quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then I missed it.
Did you mention the Sovaldi spend in first quarter? I'd love to know that number if you could provide it to us.
No Tom.
We didn't and we're not disclosing it.
We typically don't break out medical cost to that granular degree so we're not going to do that now.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> It's just kind of an unusual characteristic this quarter so just sticking to your guns on that? That's right.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
I'm pretty sure you guys bid down in Puerto Rico.
I wondered if you could give us an update on kind of where that stands? It seems like sources and information's kind of gone radio silent.
Is there an update you can give us? No this is John no.
Until something definitive happens we're not going to comment.
All right well thank you everyone.
We appreciate you listening in on this quarter's call and we'll be back with you in a few months to go over the second quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday July 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Melody.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare’s financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2014.
The company’s earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market close and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including but not limited to forward-looking statements about the reimbursement of the ACA Insurer Fee and the recognition of quality-based revenue by our Texas Health plan.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K Annual Report our Form 10-Q Quarterly Reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC’s website.
All forward-looking statements made during today’s call represent our judgment as of July 30 2014 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company’s website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today as we report our second quarter results.
We are pleased that the results for 2014 are unfolding as we anticipated when we provided guidance in February.
The three key elements that we shared with you in February remain critical for our success in 2014 and they have not changed.
These elements are the growth of membership and revenue the provision of high quality cost effective care to our members and improving administrative efficiency.
The membership continues to increase and we finished the second quarter with approximately 2.3 million members up from 1.85 million members at the end of the second quarter of 2013 an increase of 22%.
In fact we added over 100 000 members since last quarter alone.
Much of this growth is due to the expansion of Medicaid that is added over 230 000 members since last year and has exceeded the 160 000 new expansion members that we had projected in guidance at our February Investor Day.
Several sates including California Michigan and Illinois where we have health plan operations have reported backlogs affecting the processing of applications for Medicaid.
For example California reported a backlog of 600 000 applications but they expect to cut the backlog to 350 000 by September.
In Illinois the backlog has decreased from 500 000 in April to 150 000 in June.
As the states processed the backlog of applications we expect to see our Medicaid enrollment continue to grow.
The new members that are enrolling as a result of the Medicaid expansion tend to be slightly older compared to our channel members.
The Urban Institute estimated that nearly 50% of the uninsured are over 35 years of age consistent with this estimate about 60% of our Medicaid expansion members are over 35 years old.
It is too soon for us to know exactly what the final cost and characteristics of these members will ultimately be.
Total revenue is tracking in line with our expectations and is up 44% as compared to the second quarter of 2013 this is consistent with the growth in membership and the shift to members that are older and have more complex medical needs.
These members come with higher premiums.
At 89.3% of premium medical costs are higher than the same quarter a year ago when they were 86.2%.
However it is difficult to make meaningful comparisons to last year because of the change in our member demographics.
What is more important is that Medical costs are in line with the 89% that we projected in guidance for 2014.
Let me speak for a moment on Florida.
First it’s important to note that we have limited exposure in Florida due to our relatively small enrollment in that state and that our participation in the Managed Medical Assistance or MMA program did not begin until July 1.
Once the program is fully implemented Molina Healthcare will be operating in only three regions 7 9 and 11 which geographically speaking represents Central Florida the Florida Treasure Coast and South Florida.
As part of the implementation of the new Medicaid contract awards in that state we’ve had to exit some markets and start operations in others.
This has resulted in temporary declines in enrollment in June and July as we exited Tampa and Boulevard Counties.
However the membership decline will be offset with new membership in Miami-Dade which started on July 1 as well as Orlando and Palm Beach Starting August 1.
We will closely monitor the implementation to determine how it is tracking with our expectations.
The life and pharmacy costs reflects the higher cost of drugs in general.
The increased prescription drug needs of some of our new members and the cost of new drug such as Sovaldi.
While the utilization of Sovaldi appears to have plateaued in the second quarter we remain concerned about the high cost of Gilead Sovaldi and the impact it could have on state Medicaid budgets.
We are even more concerned about the future impact of specialty drugs of which Sovaldi is just a single example.
Competition generally brings with it lower costs.
However the specialty drug market may be an exception.
Senator Wyden from Oregon and Senator Grassley from Iowa recently wrote and “In order for a marketplace to function properly it must be competitive fair and transparent it is unclear how Gilead set the price for Sovaldi that price appears to be higher than expected given the cost of development and production and the steep discounts offered in other countries an efficient market needs to inform consumers to keep costs down”.
We at Molina hope that in the future the pricing of specialty drugs by pharmaceutical companies will be competitive fair and transparent.
Another important strategic objective for this year and next year is the implementation of six demonstration contracts for the coordination of care for patients eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid.
These so called duals represent much higher medical costs than typical for Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries.
They tend to have multiple chronic medical conditions and they face obstacles associated with poverty that further complicate their care.
We are very proud to have been selected to participate in the Medicare/Medicaid plans demonstration programs.
In addition to the 44 000 duals we currently serve through our dual-eligible special needs plans we began enrolling members in the MMP demonstration contracts in Illinois California and Ohio.
Recall that these dual eligible beneficiaries are first given the opportunity to enroll with a health plan that will coordinate both their Medicaid and Medicare benefits.
Those that fail to do so will be assigned to a health plan through the process of passive enrollment.
However the beneficiaries have the right to elect to continue to receive their Medicare benefits on a fee-for-service basis by opting out of the demonstration plan.
We projected that 50% of the duals would opt out.
Our experience so far leads us to believe that this is still a realistic estimate.
There has been no change to the timeline for the implementation of our duals contracts for other states.
We expect that these contracts will be implemented in Michigan South Carolina and Texas in 2015.
In keeping with our commitment to have all of our health plans accredited by NCQA for Medicaid we are proud to announce that our health plan in Wisconsin received accreditation from NCQA in April of this year.
Finally we continue to see progress in administrative efficiency.
Our general and administrative expense ratio declined sequentially to 8.4% in the second quarter of 2014.
We expect this trend to continue as we guided to approximately 8% for the whole year.
The quarter was negatively affected by three issues.
The first is reimbursement of the health insurance fee or excise tax that is part of the Affordable Care Act.
The second is the non-deductibility of this fee that increases our effective tax rate.
And the third is the decision by the company to delay the recognition of some of the quality incentive revenue under our contract with the state of Texas.
These are the same issues that affected our earnings last quarter as well.
John will discuss these three issues in greater detail in a moment.
The second quarter of 2014 much like the first quarter was consistent with our expectations and the guidance that we provided in February.
We continue to make progress towards our goals for the year.
Now I will turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As we previously discussed we are focusing on adjusted net income as our reporting metric as we feel it better reflects how we manage our business.
For the second quarter adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $0.71 per diluted share.
Overall membership grew by 22% compared with the second quarter of 2013 and sequentially by 5%.
Premium revenue has grown again this quarter to $2.2 billion up 12% compared with the first quarter 2014.
General and administrative expense ratio declined sequentially by 70 basis points to 8.4% in the second quarter of 2014 from 9.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
The positive development I just outlined occurred despite some adverse factors which carried over from the first quarter of 2014.
These include the delays in some of our states and securing agreements for the reimbursement of the Affordable Care Act’s Health Insurer Fee as well as a gross up to cover the non-deductibility of that fee and delays in the recognition of quality-related revenue at our Texas Health plan.
These delays reduced earnings by a combined total of approximately $23 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the second quarter and $45 million or $0.41 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30 2014.
In other words have we caught up in the second quarter with all of these timing differences our year-to-date results would have been higher by $0.41.
Total revenue this quarter increased by about $240 million a 12% increase over the first quarter of 2014.
The increase was due mainly by higher Medicaid expansion enrollment.
Since the first quarter of 2014 our Medicaid expansion membership experienced a significant jump of almost 100 000 members a 75% increase.
As Martha mentioned our current Medicaid expansion enrollment now exceeds the guidance of 160 000 that we laid out in February.
As we previously discussed we decided to delay recognition of a portion of the Texas Quality Revenue.
To refresh your memory the state implemented several new quality measures in 2014.
Health plans earned this revenue by demonstrating improved performance for certain metrics in 2014 over 2013.
The calculation of these new measures is extraordinarily complex and is performed on the state’s behalf by a third party using proprietary software.
It is the state’s intent to distribute 2013 base line data to health plans some time in the second half of this year.
We are calculating our performance against the measures today using our best estimates.
But without seeing the state’s methodology we believe it is prudent to see that our performance in 2014 is better than what the state has measured for 2013 performance before we recognize any revenue for these measures.
In the first half of the year we had about $13 million in quality revenue in Texas that we decided not to recognize.
Medical costs this quarter experienced a modest increase partially offsetting the benefit from the increased revenue.
We don’t consider the change in medical care ratio between the first quarter and the second quarter to be significant.
We believe that the rapid growth in our membership in the first half of the year coupled with the introduction of new benefits like long-term care services and new programs like Medicaid expansion make the fluctuations in medical care ratio between the first and second quarter less meaningful.
Our anticipation is that our medical care ratios will remain influx during 2014 driven by factors such as pent-up demand retroactive eligibility changes member confusion regarding when and how to access care and delays in our receded claims for services provided.
However we expect that the overall trend will remain in line with our guidance for the year.
We are pleased to improve our administrative cost leverage this quarter.
General and administrative expenses were 8.4% for the second quarter 2014 a decrease from 9.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
Our expectation remains that as new programs are implemented and their associated revenues finally start hitting our books.
We will gain further administrative leverage resulting in a lower administrative expense ratio.
So far the decline in G&amp;A ratio is trekking closely to the quarterly estimates we provided at Investor Day positioning us well towards achieving our 7.5% target for the fourth quarter of 2014 and an overall 8% for the entire year.
Finally an update on our effective tax rate.
The non-deductibility of the ACI Health Insurer Fee continues to affect our financial results through higher effective tax rates.
We have recorded an effective tax rate of around 58% this quarter.
Days and claims payable was flat at 46.
And as of June 30 2014 the company had cash and investments of around $1.9 billion including approximately $300 million at our parent company.
The company’s guidance for fiscal year 2014 remains unchanged and is as follows.
Adjusted net income per diluted share in the range of $4 to $4.50; and net income per diluted share in the range of $1.65 to $2.15.
Our operations are tracking as anticipated as Mario suggested but the timing of the ACA Health Insurer Fee in the Texas Quality Revenue may not be resolved until the fourth quarter.
We believe these are timing differences not operating issues.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we’ll now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi this is Mike Newshel in for Justin actually.
So with the variation of guidance last quarter you said your bias was towards the upper end of the range is there any change there in terms of how the quarter came in?  I think that we’re tracking just as we’ve said in the script and in the press release.
So you won’t – you’re not earning the upper end of the guidance range just sort of the whole – just laying out it’s going to fall within the whole range?  That’s right.
And specifically on the MLR I mean it sounded like you go with an up tick that was – that may have fluctuated above what you’re expecting for the quarter but still was in line for the full year.
I mean is it in line with what you’re expecting for the quarter or just if not so high that it’s still within the same guidance range?  This is Mario if you look at our Medical Care ratio for the first six months of the year it comes in right at 89% and that’s right in line with guidance.
Got you.
And specifically on the Medicaid expansion are they still tracking around 88%? That you mentioned.
Again no everything right now is tracking in line with guidance.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
It looks like California MLR just keeps improving.
Things are going very well there.
Are you guys paying back under the EBIT agreement by now and what should we think about as a run rate MLR under that agreement?  Sarah this is John.
No we have not started paying back we still have a reserve or receivable from the stake.
I think the run rate for California again there is a lot of changes in California especially now with the doors coming on but as Mario said I think overall the picture is we are right tracking with guidance.
Got it.
And I hit a several back on this but when I think about specific to this quarter and the expansion number should if I am kind of doing the math on where run rate have been for a couple of markets and where MLR ended up it's just looked like a little bit higher than the number and some of the expansion in states like Illinois Michigan Utah Washington.
So I got the rest on tracks for the year but just specific to this quarter are they at 88% or maybe that was never meant to be a quarterly specific number maybe that was the year end.
Could you just talk about that a little bit.
Sarah here is the challenge while Illinois Ohio and Michigan are expansion they didn’t have much expansion enrollment in the quarter.
It’s really hard to get that granular and give you folks a picture of the overall half of the company.
So rather than try to figure out what the MLR is for the expansion population in X-state or Y state.
The message is everything combined is tracking per guidance just like we have been talking about.
Sarah this is Mario.
Let me just add if you look at the six biggest states that we have California Michigan New Mexico Ohio Texas and Washington four of those states are tracking with MLR’s below 89% and two of them are above.
So again I think overall it’s tracking within expectation and I don’t place a lot of emphasis on a small state like Illinois it doesn’t really impact the numbers that much.
So we tend to focus more on the bigger states.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
If you look at most of your states that they grew in membership a little bit sequentially and yet the loss ratios mostly relative as well.
So just the new membership is coming on at higher loss ratios.
But I guess it wouldn’t be a typical but if that continues and you’re talking about the members coming on from the back of the state.
Do you think that your loss ratio should actually raise generally speaking through the rest of the year? And how confident are you that they’re not going to raise it at a more accelerated rate than you’re already looking at right now.
So Peter we always have higher cost from the new programs come on as Mario said for the first half of the year the MLR we haven’t see or rather is about 89% we’re expecting to end the year by 89% so I think that sort of addresses your question.
Yes but if you look at the trend that you’ve seen it seems like it would be driving it slightly different direction so what gives you the confidence that it’s not going to continue to go with higher loss ratio as we go forward.
Take California as an example.
California is the state that’s had the most growth and their medical loss ratio is actually coming down.
So I don’t think you can just make a blanket statement that the medical loss ratio is trending up and they were not going to hit that 89%.
We still believe that the guidance number 89% is the right number.
I am just looking at generally your state the state patterns other than California.
California is a little bit of an exception with an improving loss ratio sequentially.
Most dealers once it didn’t improve particularly where you had membership growth.
Well.
We still maintained at 89% that we’ve put in guidance is the correct number for the year.
And Peter remember we will always discussed that has the population sort of ages in as we have more time to get people under care management et cetera we can bring them the medical care ratio down.
So while may gone up sequentially it will start to track down.
Okay.
Peter its Joe White speaking.
Hi as you can imagine I’m speaking because we’re going to get into a technical discussion right now which we try to avoid.
You also though have to look at when you measure the quarter-over-quarter developments you have to look at the way our estimate of our 12/31/13 claims liability played out.
If you recall back to the first quarter we anticipated picking up about $51 million of favorable prior period development from 12/31/13 that dropped to $37 million in the second quarter about a $14 million swing.
And within individual states I don’t want to go into that much detail state-by-state but prior period development of that size can move individual states pretty significantly.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
I just want to follow-up on Joe’s response here real quick so relative to historical norms or normal course of business prior period reserved development was there any abnormal or was there any negative development in the second quarter.
Certainly we did again Josh I'm talking about the development to be clear of the reserve we established the 12/31/13.
It didn’t come in as robustly as we using anticipates.
I think a couple of states may have actually met them below the margin but the many states were essentially beneath the target margins I think we can’t attribute that any specific thing other than I just sink with the new membership we got sharing in January 1.
I think our claims payment was delayed a little bit which extended our lag factors a bit.
Okay.
And then massive pick on Illinois but Illinois was like it’s mostly new membership right it’s tools and expansion.
And the MLR is 106% so is that – in my understand I would be surprised if you had enough claims data to make a call one way the other.
So I would assume that sort of an underwritten margin.
So is that what you’re expecting we are expecting based on the rates that you were seeing that you be in the 106% range.
Or do you actually have some claims data already that putting you towards a level that is higher than expected.
Again it’s Joe speaking and we’re venturing into a accounting technicalities here but one of the real challenge is with according to the MCR in Illinois is that with anticipation the expanded enrollment and with anticipation of the dual eligibles coming on we had a front load a lot of our medical management staff.
So if you think a typical health plan if you think consolidated basis normally what we called quality assurance costs medical management runs about 2.5% of revenue.
And Illinois it’s running about 10% of revenue.
So certainly it’s one of our higher costs medical markets but if you normalized for the administrative costs burden the medical management burden you knock about 10% off for that MLR for Illinois.
Got it.
And you put all of those quality expenses in the medical cost line?  Correct.
Okay consistent with any IT guidelines et cetera.
So and then one more question for you the opt-out rates I’m just looking at the second quarter it looks like you're about 62%.
I think you guys have been talking about 50% opt-out rate.
Can you sort of maybe just walk us through the timings of the dual roll out? So this is an issue where you’ve got a timing issue and that – this will migrate more towards 50% or is that 62% in line with your expectation?  Josh it’s Joe and Terry is going to get into the more substantive business explanation of this in a minute.
But as far as how we’ve reported this not the numbers that the major factor here is Ohio.
Unlike our other MMP states in Ohio the state is enrolling in every one for their Medicaid benefits and the individual until January 1 to receive the Medicare piece of the MMP has to opt in.
So the result of that is we are getting a lot of – we are starting to get members in Ohio who are default to just in the Medicaid piece of the MMP benefit and have chosen not to opt into the Medicare piece.
So the result of that is what you see right there on the – in terms of the way we disclose enrollment in the earnings release.
And so…  Terry is…  Josh I will just add two more factors and at this point we are telling you that we are tracking toward that 50% opt-out number which is one we put in guidance we don’t have any indication will not be there.
Some people opt-out before they ever come into the program some opt-out in the first month there are in the program but what Joe just explained Ohio was a different situation where the path of enrollment will not begin until next January.
So you got Medicaid coming in and then a voluntary opt-in on the others.
So there are so many factors I think we’ve discussed it late and look at Illinois California and Ohio from our different points in the voluntary and passed that process and our conclusion is that we are not seeing that we will exceed that 50% of opt-in.
The bottom line is too early to tell we are waiting for that information to finally come in.
So just to clarify in Ohio then all of these individuals have been assigned Medicaid.
Yeah.
Possibly.
And then they will get their Medicare assignment on January 1 possibly as well.
And then there is probably an opt-out period after that as well.
Correct.
They can opt out of Medicare at any time I just want to also clarify for you the entire Ohio enrollment has not been assigned yet will that’s coming in segments and you are seeing in the June 30 numbers only the first half in selected regions that will continue to occur over the next month or two.
Right.
You will get a big bump in the auto assignment for Jan I and then it will sort of come down a little bit as people opt-out after that.
Yes.
But even the Medicaid is coming in over the course of couple of months not all at once.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from a line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Great thanks.
I am struggling to fully understand some of the commentary that you guys made so far.
And I will get the 10-Q it looks like in the quarter California got a bunch of payments that were out of period revenue payments related to Q1 of 2013 which I believe may be MLR look lower by back that was not coming up with MLR up 150 basis points sequentially is that the right way to think about it? And if so want to go back to the question earlier about revenue growth and rising trend in MLR?  Sure.
It’s Joe speaking yes.
I think the way you laid it out is a way I would lay it out on the California benefited from other period revenue adjustment in the quarter that more or less offset consolidated prior period development.
So we didn’t see I need to call that one on a consolidated basis Kevin.
But when everyone started to talk about individual health plan performance I was just making the point that unfavorable prior period development on a comparative basis from the previous quarter easily squeeze other health plan MLRS.
So I think the way to look at it is without going into too much detail California’s MCR helped by the $15 million of out of period revenue the other health plans hurt by prior period development.
Yeah.
I think the number was 2015 the sideline Q1 that’s obviously a 2014 numbers do you include in the 2014 to offset 2015 2013 that you would back out?  Exactly 2015 versus 2015 for last year.
Okay.
So I mean it does seem then like on a normalized basis that generally speaking I understand the concept of relating that’s hard to get a clean numbers if you don’t have prior but it’s still directionally feel that the comment before that new enrollment coming and higher costs.
Generally speaking is the right way to think about it and I think you guys have also talked about that historically that when you don’t have visibility on claims you take a little bit more conservative thoughts on MLR So it is interesting that we have that enrollment coming on normally we would think it should be a higher MLR the bridge in the ramping guidance is pretty dramatic obviously you are expecting to get the healthcare insurance fee in terms of payments.
So I just trying to think about the bridge there is it all about the G&amp;A reduction and exceeding that is that kind of other big reason for the dramatic increase in earnings when MLR might not be the answer.
That’s a big.
It’s Joe speaking again.
That’s a big chunk of it.
I don’t want to model for everybody but if you look at if you do the if you look at where guidance is at on the revenue side versus where we’re today for the first half and then take the impact of the admin ratio we talked about for the year which we still believe we’re going to get it’s a pretty substantial number drop into the bottom line.
Okay.
And then just last question on the Texas incentive payments just want to get an update any color you can provide about your conversation you had with the state about where you’re versus those numbers and obviously that’s maybe restriction way it actually book at the just any color you have about the confidence of actually hitting those numbers.
This is John.
We’ve got our own internal calculations that we feel pretty comfortable with our performance is improving but until we see what the base line is and we have to get that from the state and they have to get that from the third party vendor it’s impossible for us to know.
Is that timing on the Q3 event or is that Q4?  They have told us Q3 but space it we recognized that often times when states are rolling out new data that there are delays.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Carter with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Thanks good afternoon.
Just quick when I go back to your Investor Day book I think I come up with a target of around 60 000 duals I think you’re targeting for the year.
I mean you guys on pace for that given where you are today?  That’s a good question.
I think it’s Joe speaking again I mean I think that point since and we’ve talked about the delays is the rollouts in…  South Carolina.
Michigan and South Carolina.
So we don’t want to go in that level of detail but I think it’s fair to say we’ll come up a little bit less than that.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just on the Texas MLR I mean that looked elevated in the quarter.
Is that just simply related to the revenue recognition or anything else going on there?  It's Joe speaking.
Again yes it’s the revenue recognition it’s also if you look at it compared to last year it’s also add to do with some timing of recognition of profit sharing to back of the stay.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
So a follow-up on the dual Medicare opt-out I’m wondering beyond the obvious that you don’t get the medicare premium portion are there other implications to that opt-out in terms of your ability to manage the members care and perhaps the saving assumptions that are baked into the premium that you are getting.
I think that we are still going to be responsible for managing the long term care benefits.
The savings that are baked in are baked in only for the MMP program.
So if they are not fully enrolled there is no savings expectation.
They are essentially like our Texas STAR PLUS members where we are responsible for the long term care benefits but there is no associated savings the savings idea was that if you could co-ordinate the care for both Medicare and Medicaid there would be some synergy and some cost savings to the extent that the members don’t participate in both programs that are outside of that contract.
And that how we have modeled it in our guidance.
Okay and so you feel like the premium that you will get in opt-out situation is appropriate for the benefits and the savings that you’re responsible for?  That’s right.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I also think that there is an opportunity later on for those patients to voluntarily enroll if they choose to.
And I think that if we do a good job of managing their other Medicaid benefits they may gain confidence in health plan and decided that they want to fully participate.
So it’s not as if these members are permanently gone on the Medicare side they could come back to us later.
Sure.
Are there – on that point are there other steps that you can take that would change the proportion of opt-outs change the network and things like that?  Well certainly one of the reasons that people opt-out in the Medicare side is if we don’t have their provider in the network.
And it becomes more difficult on the Medicare side because these beneficiaries have multiple positions whereas typically on the Medicaid side the real contact with healthcare is through their primary care doctor.
On the Medicare side it’s often the specialist.
And if you’ve got four or five specialists and one of them is not in our network you may opt-out.
So as time goes on I think we will shore up the network.
We do get information about who the providers are.
Gotcha.
So last question coming back to the MLR there is lot of focus on the new members that are coming in or will come in over the balance of the year and impact on MLR.
What about your expectations for MLR underwriting margin for the members that we’re looking at today.
The decline as they mature into your plants and the medical management resources that you have in place maybe you could talk us through proactive steps that you are taking to make sure these folks get into plans and their cost experience declines as they seize them.
This is Terry.
We’re executing on our model of care that we have been working on and focused on the last few years.
We use a model of care whether each trying to stable patients in our Medicare D snip and we’ve extended it now to the new enrollment.
The patients are all risk assessment is completed upon their entry to the program and they are dependent upon that are modeling tools and our tearing of the severity and the need for immediate intervention.
Folks are getting assigned to case managers.
I think we have shared with you in the past we’re focused on community connectors and care transition workers so that we’re working with members in their homes and when they leave the hospital just as much as we’re managing them during their in-patient stage.
So our full care management model which is very focused on coordinating medical behavioral and social needs is in play on these members not 100% on day one and that’s where our triage mechanism come in place so that we can focused on those of most greatest need in the beginning.
There is also medication therapy management programs that come so all of the members who have a high number of medical diagnosis and prescription drugs are each in dialogue with the registered pharmacist to coordinate their drug program and that’s another way that we focused on those most greatest need in the beginning.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong>  Yes good afternoon.
I wonder if you could talk about the process that you are taking with your states to get the ACA fee totally covered and wrapped up above.
I thought by this time of the year you might have a bit more visibility on it.
So is there are you more conservative in your process make? Additional color will be helpful there?  Sure Tom.
This is John.
I think one of the important things is we’re waiting for a contract language.
So while there are a couple of states Utah and Michigan where the legislature has passed budget appropriations to cover the fee and the gross app we’re not going to recognize that revenue until they get a contract amendment.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong>  Okay.
And then just to clarify one other thing did your prior guidance also excludes of all these spending?  Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong>  So it did your prior.
I guess one when was that I’m just trying to figure out when that – when you excluded that was in your Investor Day?  That wasn’t Investor Day.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong>  Okay very good.
And then is there any comment you could – you were hesitant to comment on first quarter bouts of all the spending but may be and I appreciate the comments about telling is there any kind of order of magnitude description you could give to us kind of first quarter into second quarter?  Yeah this is Mario.
I don’t want to quantify that.
Certainly the spending in the second quarter was greater than the first quarter.
We request for the drugs seem to plateus so we think that that’s going to flat now.
And I think that part of that is an expectation if there are new drugs in the pipeline and so some positions maybe waiting for those new treatments.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong>  Okay thanks for that.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi it’s Andy Schenker thanks for the question.
I’m just following up on the some falsy comments there.
I mean you previously highlighted obviously we got the team in Florida.
You guys had acknowledged it and these Texas acknowledged that the drug wasn’t in rates.
I mean how are those conversations going with Texas that reimbursement as they are specifically going forward and how your conversation and the other states potentially is going to pay retro actively and then as your expectation it will be in rates when they renew?  As a whole lot of questions here Andy.
Yeah I’m not aware that any worth playing pays retro actively I think that states are talking about what they can do on a prospective basis and I think that what I would say is it’s all over the math every state is taking a slightly different approach to this and I think they are building that into the rates for next year.
As I stated in my remarks earlier a big part of our concern is not just above all of but all the other specialty drugs and I think that the governments needs to step in here and make sure that the market is rationale.
If we as a health plan with rate increase we have to go to our regulators and get it approved.
There is no such thing going on in the pharmaceutical market.
Right now pharmaceutical companies can charge whatever they want and I think there need to be rational basis for all this.
If we’re going to cover all of these people all these uninsured people the only way to do that is by bringing down healthcare costs and we can’t do that if we see a large number of specialty drugs that sell at the medical trend.
So it’s a problem not only for Medicaid companies but it’s going to be a problem for Medicare for the VA and for commercial plans.
This is truly a national problem that’s going to affect everyone.
And just following-up on your states that are off talented to fiscal year rate increases any updates on how those rate discussions are progressing?  We generally don’t talk about how rates are progressing until we actually get rate manuals rate sheets et cetera.
But as Mario said it does run the (indiscernible) from folks like Florida doing payment to others are going to increase the rates as certain percentage specifically for Sovaldi or our specialty drugs like Sovaldi.
I think and also just beyond on Sovaldi just in general how discussions are trending?  I think that with the discussions on the ACA fee and Sovaldi those have sort of taken the forefront.
So there hasn’t been a lot of discussion yet about base volume trends other than for Sovaldi et cetera.
I think that now that we’re getting that populations in the MMPs getting in the Medicaid expansion getting some data will some of those discussions and trends to the forefront.
Okay thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Please proceed.
Thanks good evening.
Appreciate for taking my question.
I wanted to do get some qualitative color if you can offer it at this point on the Medicaid expansion lives as far as the venue or the site that they are presenting themselves.
What types of services are they seeking? And you think about the premiums of about 50% to 200% higher depending upon with state you are in.
And do you think there is adequate rates in there to cover maybe the upfront our patient pharmacy emerging you know those types of costs for potentially untreated unmanaged patients.
Ana this is Mario.
As I said before the patients are older than our typical tenant members but I still think it’s early for us to be making statements about the rates or the place of service or the kinds of services that they are getting.
I mean for example we picked up a 100 000 members from the first quarter to the second quarter and so I don’t feel that we have enough claims data yet to be making those kinds of statements beginning into lot of the member characteristics or healthcare patents yet I think its developing and we’re just going to have to watch it and maybe we can update you on that in future quarters but right now it’s probably to assume.
And then the hospitals I think some of them are talking about expecting the outpatient care might trend down and it eventually transition to the inpatient setting or you has a health plan taking any step to get primary care interventions or anything of that nature is this just going to kind of happen relatively unmanaged and they end up in the ER and so the plans don’t really have that much control over what happen?  Well we certainly hope that this is not going to be on Managed Care that’s sort of what we’re here for.
And we are trying to manage the patients as best we can.
As Terry mentioned for a lot of the patients we’re doing initial health assessments we’ve got all kinds of care managers John talked about the investments we made in Illinois.
Across the board and this is reflected in our admin costs we staffed up and you saw a lot of that infrastructure growth last year.
So I wouldn’t say that this is just going to develop in an unmanaged fashion.
We’re learning as we go.
We will try to continue to improve on the method of care for these numbers but I’m hoping that the tools we have will help us to manage them.
And then with the States at the point when you and the states together can make decision as to whether the rates were adequate or in excess or too little.
Let’s assume they were excessive.
Do you think the states will manage the margins to where they think they should be through a risk corridor MLR floor type mechanism or on top of that there may be some rate adjustments? And if there were rate adjustments do you think the states will use the expansion population in the federal subsidies to manage against their budgetary constraints in other areas that (indiscernible) that type of thing?  Ana this is John.
I am not sure how a state could do what you’re discussing in terms of the last point.
These are federal dollars so I don’t know how the state could use it for their budget issues.
There are number of states that have caps and floors with respect to the expansion populations but the rates for the expansion populations have to actuarially sound.
And so as we get data in on demographics and utilization we’ll have discussions with the states on what the appropriate rates are.
Yes Ana I think that’s an important point that John just made.
In addition because of these sort of rate quarters that we have in lot of the contracts there is some additional mitigation that you don’t see.
We set aside money for claims that have been incurred but not received yet but there is also risk quarter or mitigation factors that will help us as well.
And then we last talked I think there was something about a rate change in July did that actually materialize and then California I might have just missed that all together but.
California is looking at rates per certain counties in July but I don’t know haven’t seen them all yet and don’t know what the impact on the expansion if any is.
And then finally just on duals with the opt-outs that you’re seeing any sort of selection in that opt-out equation where the more acute care utilizes for the Medicare portion of this some more likely to opt-out because they get more unmanaged usage of that sort of (indiscernible).
Well we really don’t know.
What I’d say as this.
The members opt-out is a voluntary choice on their part.
And we don’t have a lot of insight into things like what their prior care or what your health status today at a time they are opting out.
We really don’t any get an information as to why they opt-out.
It’s really anecdotal information that we get.
We suspect based on our experience with the dual eligible special needs plans that a big driver of this are the providers and the provider network that we have.
But I can't give you that kind of detail as to who’s opting out and why and what their patterns of utilizations are that’s just something we don’t have any insight into.
And if I could seek on last follow-up on that point you made do you do any outreach to these other same people so that you know who you’re reaching out to and trying to keep and retain within the system either through the provider base or any other channel.
The moment that we are allowed to reach out to these members we do so.
Okay all right.
I appreciate the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna International Group.
Please proceed.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
I just want to sort of kind of dumb down the guidance for the year and make sure I understand what exactly the message is.
The year-to-date EPS is $0.26 the normalized for the health annualized was about $0.60 and then the taxes issue annualized about $0.24 but it gives you to roughly a $1.20 which leaves you $0.45 to $0.95 from your guidance.
I guess is the message on the low end do you think you can get there just on G&amp;A improvement and then to get to the upper end we need to see the MLRs come down a bit?  This is John.
I hate to make it that (indiscernible).
As we’ve discussed there is a lot of moving parts.
But I think if you want to characterize it that way I would think that just bringing the G&amp;A down that would get us beyond the low end.
Okay.
And then the DCP remained at an elevated level here from the first quarter and I guess I’m just trying to get a sense for what’s the right level to think about as we move into the back half of the year or maybe just a little bit longer term.
Joe speaking.
Are you asking about what’s the right level for DCP is?  Yes I mean it looks like there is some conservatism baked into that and you’re not alone in the industry at this point but I’m just trying to figure out where you think that shakes out overtime.
We don’t put a lot of stock in DCP but I think you can expect it come down a day or two as the population mature we work through our client backlogs and we get more confidentially where we are in terms about cost estimation.
Okay.
And then my last question or questions I guess the health insurance fee and the remuneration for that is that still a split like an (indiscernible) split between the states and the fed’s picking up most of that on behalf of the states?  It is a split.
Part of it is contributed by the state part of it is contributed by the feds.
Right and then I mean this is kind of crazy but then when you think about Texas and sort of where they are cortically big rate of governor who seems to low everything about the ACA is there any political element in your mind with regard to them not agreeing you have to remunerate that because they may just say hey we don’t care it’s a federal tax and we don’t want any part of it.
Well what I would say about that is that we have a very good relationship with the Health and Human Services Commission.
And we have dialogue with them as do the other health plans.
I would not describe a lot of political mode of do anything at this point.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
And our final question comes from the line of Brian Wright with Sterne Agee.
Please proceed.
Thanks and I apologize I may have missed this.
But could you talk a little bit about the sequential move in Michigan on the MLR to just give us some understanding to what happen there?  Hey Brian it’s Joe speaking.
That’s one of those mechanical developments in terms of how 12/31 changed if that combined and again the numbers are small and consolidated but they are relative to some revenue adjustments on Medicare there.
Okay.
Not significant enough to move the needle consolidated but they can impact on the health plan.
Okay thank you.
Dr.
Molina there are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to you.
Well thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you with our next quarter results.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference call.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded Thursday October 30 2014.
I would now turn the conference of call over to Juan José Orellana Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you George.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2014.
The company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including but not limited to forward-looking statements about our Medicaid and MMP duals growth the reimbursement of the ACA insurer fee the recognition of quality-based revenue by our Texas health plan our expected memberships and revenues in Puerto Rico and our medical costs.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of October 30 2014 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José and hello everyone.
Our performance this quarter is consistent with what we discussed at our Investor Day in September.
We continue to operate in a very dynamic environment one that has brought us a tremendous amount of growth in a short period of time.
Our premium revenue which has been fueled by unprecedented enrollment gains now stands at $6.4 billion on a year-to-date basis and $200 million more than we booked in all of 2013.
To put our growth in perspective it took our company approximately 23 years to grow to 500 000 members.
This year we added nearly 500 000 members in the first 3 quarters alone.
But that's not all we now expect to add an additional 500 000 members in the next 9 months.
This makes for an exciting time for our company.
A time filled with exceptional growth opportunities that are already contributing to a dramatic expansion.
2/3 of our new enrollment this year has come from Medicaid expansion lives led by California Ohio and Washington.
The remaining 1/3 has come from initiatives that are even more significant to our long-term growth.
The expansion of our geographic footprint and the addition of new programs for the chronically ill.
We expanded our footprint adding South Carolina and Illinois.
Our Florida health plan began rolling out the new Managed Medicaid Assistance or MMA program in August.
The Florida health plan was involved in 2 acquisitions: one in Palm Beach; and one in the Jacksonville service area.
The Jacksonville transition is now approved for transition of members starting on December 1 2014 and we anticipate that approximately 65 000 members will be transitioned to become Molina members.
In terms of programs for the elderly and disabled many of whom are chronically ill we have also implemented dual eligible contracts in California Illinois and Ohio as well as new long-term care contracts in Florida and New Mexico.
Last we began selling marketplace products in 9 of our states and we've learned a great deal from this experience over the past year.
Collectively the coordination of all these new programs combined with Medicaid expansion represents the largest and fastest integration in the history of our company.
With this growth environment as a backdrop it is not surprising that our top line revenue growth has been excellent.
Administrative costs are also tracking just as we expected.
We continue to reap the benefit of the investments in infrastructure that we made last year.
As a matter of fact our year-to-date admin ratio of 8.2% is 160 basis points lower than last year and our third quarter admin rate of 7.2% is the lowest in 5 years.
This has contributed to the doubling of pretax income when you compare the third quarter of 2014 to the third quarter of 2013.
We are positioned to continue capitalizing on this growth and we are fully aware that short-term issues are the price we pay for long-term success.
So let's talk about some of the factors that are having a greater impact on our short-term profitability.
They include the delays in revenue recognition the programmatic challenges of integrating a new managed care business and a difficult rate environment across many of our states.
I will now expand on each of these factors.
First the delay in revenue recognition has affected our financial results throughout the year.
Specifically the delay in recognition of the health insurer fee and the quality incentive revenue under our contract with the State of Texas have yet to be fully resolved.
With respect to the health insurer fee as of today the company has a formal commitment for the reimbursement of about 60% of the 2014 fee including tax effects.
Most of the shortfall relates to our California New Mexico and Texas health plans.
Unreimbursed health insurer fees from California New Mexico and Texas plus unreimbursed tax effects of the fee from Michigan and Utah amounts to $50 million in total for all of 2014.
To date we have paid $89 million related to the health insurer fee to the Internal Revenue Service with $81 million related to Medicaid and $8 million related to Medicare.
Even though we received informal acknowledgments from California New Mexico and Texas that they are responsible for reimbursing the fee.
So far they have not made formal commitments.
We continue to believe that this represents a timing issue and that all of our states will ultimately fund the fee.
However we are less certain that they will formally commit to doing so before the year-end.
Finally to secure formal commitments to reimburse the fee -- I'm sorry failure to secure formal commitments to reimburse the fee will delay revenue recognition and we can expect that some states will not provide such formal commitments until next year.
Let me remind you as we talked about at our Investor Day our 2014 guidance assumed that we would be able to book 100% of the fee during the current year.
So the inability to recognize any portion of the $50 million in reimbursement not yet secured will represent a shortfall from our guidance.
Our other major barrier to revenue recognition is related to quality incentives in Texas.
You will recall that we have about $35 million of potential quality revenue in Texas for the full year and that our 2014 guidance includes full recognition of this amount.
We have yet to receive clear direction from the state as to how some of these quality measures will be calculated.
So far this year we have recorded only $8 million of that revenue.
To the extent that we do not receive clear guidance by year-end we will not record the full amount of Texas quality revenue.
As with the health insurer fee the outcome of this matter will have a direct effect on our performance versus guidance in 2014.
The second factor impeding profitability in 2014 has to do with implementing new managed care programs and the challenges involved in caring for those with chronic health conditions that result in higher medical costs.
Currently our medical costs are trending slightly higher than we anticipated and we expect this trend to continue as we bring on additional enrollment in the near future.
You may recall the large-scale migrations from fee-for-service to managed care that we implemented for the TANF and ABD populations in Ohio for ABD in California or in managed care expansion for STAR+ programs in Texas in 2012.
These implementations resulted in short-term margin compression due to medical cost volatility.
Over time and with the help of medical management initiatives these programs stabilized and began contributing to earnings as the medical care ratio declined.
The implementation of a new managed care program is further complicated by the complex needs of our new members.
The care model for chronically ill requires skill patience and persistence.
Frequently it requires educating both members and physicians about the most appropriate ways to access healthcare services.
It requires hard work in assessing the health condition of new members developing care plans for patients with complex conditions ensuring that their home environments are supportive of good health and constant follow-up to coordinate care among medical behavioral health and personal care; providers.
In many cases it is difficult to even locate and establish contact with our new members.
Many of you will recall that Terry spoke at length to these issues when we were in New York City last month.
Among her lessons learned was that the chronically ill require more intensive management than even we anticipated.
We have spoken many times over the past year about the growth in the number of members receiving long-term services and supports or LTSS.
We have also discussed how on a percentage basis profit margins on LTSS are generally lower than those on the acute medical benefits providing us with very little wiggle room.
Despite these challenges we remain confident in our ability to improve medical margins over time.
First as members become acclimated to managed care and enrollment decelerates we would expect medical cost come down.
Second we have proven in the past that our medical management and care coordination efforts are successful in reducing medical cost over time.
A third factor is per-member per-month premium revenue.
Premium rate increases have not kept up with medical inflation.
We have had success in addressing inadequate premium rates before.
One need only look to the experience of our California health plan to see the dramatic effect that even modest rate increases can have on our financial performance.
We remain optimistic that the revenue recognition issues associated with the health insurer fee and the spike in medical cost will improve over time.
The adequacy of premium rates is an ongoing challenge in our industry.
We will continue to support actuarial soundness but we need more transparency into the states' rate setting process.
We continue to seek new market opportunities that are consistent with our mission and strategy.
This month Molina was selected by the Puerto Rico Health Insurance Administration to operate the Commonwealth's Medicaid-funded government health program in the East and Southwest regions.
We are pleased to have been selected and we look forward to working closely with local providers in order to satisfy readiness requirements.
Under the government health program the new model of care in Puerto Rico will integrate medical and behavioral healthcare services under a single managed care organization in each region.
Molina Healthcare's total expected enrollment opportunity in the 2 regions is about 350 000 members with expected annualized revenues of approximately $750 million.
The program currently covers 1.4 million beneficiaries across Puerto Rico and is expected to begin in April 2015.
Along with continuing to pursue opportunities for the future we continue to focus on providing high-quality cost-effective care for our members.
For our company quality is a strategic priority.
We therefore consider it a great achievement that for 10 consecutive years our health plans have been nationally ranked by NCQA for providing quality care.
This year 9 of our health plans were ranked by NCQA among the best Medicaid health plans in the United States.
Our Medicaid plans in New Mexico Utah and Washington are the highest-ranked plans in their respective states.
Providing our members with access to quality care continues to be our top priority today just as it has been for the last 34 years.
The third quarter 2014 much like the first and second quarters faced many of the headwinds we have been talking about all year.
Nevertheless we have more than doubled our pretax income when compared to the third quarter of last year.
We have not reached all of our goals and we will not reach them over night but we are certainly making progress.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
Diluted net income per share doubled to $0.33 during the third quarter of 2014 compared to $0.16 per diluted share during the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted net income and adjusted EPS from continuing operations increased to $0.83 per diluted share this quarter compared to $0.71 during the same quarter a year ago.
During the third quarter we maintained the strong enrollment and revenue growth we saw in the first half of the year and improved our administrative cost performance markedly.
In summary premiums and administrative costs are tracking consistently with our expectations.
Our medical care ratio is tracking slightly above our expectations which is creating some pressure on our bottom line.
First I'll talk about revenue.
Total revenue this quarter reached $2.5 billion fueled by increases in both membership and per-member per-month premium.
During the third quarter enrollment grew across all of our products.
Let me provide you with some enrollment highlights.
Medicaid expansion enrollment was strong and grew over 80 000 members this quarter to 315 000 a 35% increase.
Not only does our current Medicaid expansion enrollment significantly exceed the enrollment guidance we provided but the number of expansion members we have added so for this year exceeds the total membership we added in 2012 and 2013 combined.
And we are encouraged by recent studies published by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Modern Healthcare that suggests we may continue to see more Medicaid expansion enrollment growth in 2015.
In addition other states continue to review expanding their Medicaid programs.
For example last week the State of Utah announced that it has come to terms with CMS on a Medicaid Expansion program.
Enrollment also grew dramatically in Florida and Illinois.
The Florida health plan added 40 000 members during their third quarter.
In addition once the Jacksonville transaction closes in December we anticipate that approximately 65 000 members will transfer to Molina.
In Illinois we began participating in the managed care program for TANF and expression patients in August and our enrollment in that state grew by 15 000 members in the third quarter.
Illinois TANF and expansion enrollment is still growing and we anticipate our membership will increase by 60 000 members in the fourth quarter.
I want to take a moment to highlight that combined 125 000 members that we are expecting from Florida and Illinois during the fourth quarter is the equivalent of adding another entire state.
As a point of comparison our health plan in South Carolina currently has 118 000 members.
We launched Medicare Medicaid Plans or MMPs in California Illinois and Ohio.
At September 30 we served over 14 000 MMP members.
These are members for whom we provide both Medicare and Medicaid benefits.
At September 30 we also served over 20 000 MMP-eligible members in California and Ohio for whom we provide only Medicaid benefits.
Over 80% of MMP-eligible members for whom we provide only Medicaid benefits are in Ohio.
MMP-eligible members in Ohio are not yet assigned by default to a managed care provider for Medicare coverage.
Only those who actively choose or opt-in to receive an integrated offering are enrolled as fully integrated MMP members.
Passive enrollment of members into an integrated program is not slated to begin in Ohio until 2015.
Setting aside the technicalities of enrollment fully integrated MMP members have contributed almost $95 million to premium revenue in the 9 months ended September 30 2014 while MMP-eligible members receiving only Medicaid benefits from Molina contributed another $95 million.
Despite the rapid ramp-up in revenue we have had some revenue-related issues this year.
The most significant of course has been our inability to recognize as revenue the full reimbursement we believe we are owed from state Medicaid agencies for the ACA health insurer fee.
To reiterate what Mario said we have about $50 million of health insurer fee revenue for the full year of 2014 that we have not been able to recognize even though all of the state Medicaid agencies have informally committed to full reimbursement including tax effects.
Without a formal commitment from those states principally California New Mexico and Texas we will not be able to book any of the remaining $50 million this year.
There is still the uncertainty surrounding the Texas quality revenue.
We have about $35 million in potential quality revenue in Texas for all of 2014.
Through September 30 we recognized only $8 million of that revenue.
Unfortunately we continue to await further clarification from the state.
And given this late date we are doubtful that we'll be able to recognize the full amount of our Texas quality revenue during 2014.
Now let's move on to medical costs.
I want to emphasize 3 points.
First the company's transition to a chronic care focus makes meaningful comparisons to last year's results difficult.
As we've said before premiums for long-term services and supports or LTSS are much greater than those for acute medical benefits.
But the percentage margins for administrative costs and profit built into those rates is much lower than that for traditional medical benefits.
Through September 30 2014 we have recorded premium revenue of about $1.1 billion tied to members who are eligible for LTSS compared to only $700 million for the first 9 months of 2013.
This 57% growth in LTSS revenue resulted in an increase to our medical expense ratio of 1.2% in the third quarter of 2014.
To further demonstrate how our financial measurements are changing despite the fact that our medical care ratio increased by 3% during 2014 our medical margin as measured in dollars increased by 8%.
Again as our business continues to grow and become more complex we will be exploring new methods of presentation that better capture these characteristics.
We find geographic descriptions are less informative than product descriptions.
Second as Mario pointed out flat to very low rate increases across the company's traditional Medicaid business have resulted in higher medical ratio.
Third lack of coordination in the design of profit caps and medical cost floors in some of our contracts is resulting in counterproductive outcomes.
In some instances givebacks due to profitable performance in one product cannot be offset against losses in other products.
We believe the resulting asymmetric assignment of risk is unfair to health plans and counterproductive to the goal of Medicaid programs to ensure access to care for all beneficiaries.
For example at our Washington health plan adjustments to premium revenue as a result of minimum medical loss ratio requirements for the Medicaid expansion population reduced income before taxes by approximately $17 million for the third quarter of 2014 and $23 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2014.
Simultaneously the Washington health plan incurred a medical care ratio in excess of 100% for its aged blind and disabled members.
However we are unable to offset profits from our Medicaid expansion contract against our ABD contracts.
The Washington health plan is therefore left in a position where it must return profits under its Medicaid expansion contract while it receives no relief from losses incurred under its ABD contract despite very little differences between the 2 programs.
In a similar manner our New Mexico health plan received a new contract provision limiting profits on retroactively added members which reduced income before taxes by approximately $6 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2014.
At the same time the New Mexico health plan's LTSS program operated at a medical care ratio in excess of 100%.
In reviewing our overall medical cost performance I'll remind you of what we have said in the past.
2014 and 2015 will be years of rapid growth while 2016 will be a year of stabilization.
Stabilization and margin expansion will come as we integrate new member into our care models.
Our past experiences in Ohio and California where we have thrived in difficult situations by both managing care and getting appropriate premiums gives us confidence as we look to the future.
We continue to achieve greater administrative cost leverage.
At our Investor Day event in 2013 we communicated how we were investing in infrastructure to support our growth driving administrative costs as a percentage of revenue up to over 10% last year.
Earlier this year we discussed our expectations related to administrative costs for 2014.
As expected our administrative costs as a percentage of revenue have declined significantly during 2014 as our revenue has surged.
General and administrative expenses were 7.2% for the third quarter of 2014 a decrease from 8.4% in the second quarter of 2014.
We remain confident in the target of about 8% for the whole year of 2014.
During the third quarter of 2014 the Internal Revenue Service issued final regulations related to compensation deduction limitations applicable to certain health insurance insurers.
Pursuant to these final regulations the company recorded a tax benefit during the third quarter of 2014 of approximately $7 million for periods prior to the third quarter of 2014.
Days in claims payable this quarter increased by 4 to 50 days.
As of September 30 2014 the company had cash and investments of around $2.4 billion including approximately $347 million at the parent.
And cash flow from operating activities was very strong through September 30 at $841 million.
We now believe that our earnings per diluted share and our adjusted earnings per diluted share may fall below the low end of the ranges included in our previously issued 2014 guidance.
This is because as we have disclosed in the past our inability to fully recognize the ACA insurer -- health insurer fee revenue and the Texas quality revenue in 2014 along with medical care costs that are trending higher than we anticipated as compared with our most recent full year 2014 estimates and the impact of certain contractual provisions that limit our ability to retain profits.
At our Investor Day in 2012 we embarked on an ambitious plan to double our revenue decrease our administrative ratio and increase our margin.
We are well underway to accomplishing the first 2 of these goals.
We have consistently stated that we're focused on this long-term plan and that investors should not be distracted by quarterly fluctuations that are inevitable.
We remain just as excited about our prospects today as we were when we announced that plan.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a little bit more color on what changed in your expectations.
It sounds like the majority of it was just the 2 timing issues.
I wanted to understand if it wasn't for the health insurance fee in Texas now looking more like the '15 than '14 event.
Could you have maintained guidance? Or was there really something that changed inter-quarter on your understanding of the ability to net contracts and the state against each other when looking at profit caps? Look Sarah I think that there's a couple of things there.
First of all as you said the majority of the disconnect is the timing on both Texas quality revenue and health insurer fee.
Those combined are close to $70 million almost $80 million.
Then we had the Washington settlement in the third quarter which was a drag of $11 million.
And I think that the impact of the inability to net the profits is an issue.
Did we know about it early on? I think we did theoretically.
We just didn't understand the impact and we certainly did not know about the take back in New Mexico where the retroactive membership was capped at basically a 95% MCR leaving very little room for profit there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
If I kind of just look at the -- what the clean numbers or run rate if I'm taking out those timing issues with the ACA fee Texas Washington payment that doesn't repeat.
And you've mentioned before an SG&amp;A number that wasn't matched timing-wise.
I'm kind of getting close to $1.36 or so of nonrepeating headwinds.
So when I think about go forward the outlook it looks a lot brighter going forward.
Well I think as I said we are excited by our prospects.
We've got some very good revenue growth momentum.
We've got Puerto Rico coming on next year admin costs are coming down just like we expected.
So now it's a matter of us trying to work with the states on correcting some of these contract issues getting some premium rate increases.
As Mario said for the base businesses it's been a struggle in most of the states to get what we think are adequate rates.
But yes we think that we're in good position right now.
Our next question comes from Christian Rigg with Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand sort of the EPS in the quarter.
So GAAP was $0.33 you've got $0.07 from the HIF $0.05 from Texas quality $0.14 from Washington penalty payment and then another sort of $0.15 benefit from the retroactive adjustment on the nondeductible comp tax issue.
That gets me to about $0.44.
Is that kind of the right way to think about it maybe $0.01 or $0.02 lower for the in-quarter contribution from the nondeductibility of the comp? Joe is adding up the numbers right now as we speak.
You're a little bit faster on your arithmetic than he is.
Yes Chris I think that's definitely a good way to look at it.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the G&amp;A absolute costs my model I expected a similar amount of leverage.
But obviously I was a little higher than top line.
But on an actual dollar amount the G&amp;A expenses declined fairly meaningfully quarter-to-quarter.
Can you give us a sense for what drove that? It's Joe speaking again Chris.
It's a variety of things.
I wouldn't expect that decline.
I would just -- I wouldn't expect that decline to repeat in the fourth quarter as we gear up for Puerto Rico and we consider what advertising investments we want to make leading into 2015 enrollment for marketplace.
It's -- I guess I would just say that the spending has its own cycles.
And this quarter we were just down a little bit.
We're still -- I think John mentioned in his remarks we're still -- we're not changing the overall guidance to 8% for the year.
So I would just stick with what we talked about since February in terms of admin spend.
Our next question comes from Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to dig into the medical cost issue because that seems to be the one that is not timing-related so -- and I feel like I've asked this in the past on certain situations like this.
But I guess which medical costs specifically are coming in higher? And maybe you can help us with your diligence process on when you're taking on some of these new contracts especially some with high acuity.
Do you use consultant actuaries? I'm just curious how you guys come up with sort of expectations especially for these new populations.
And again maybe help us with which buckets have been the most surprising.
Sure Josh.
This is John.
I think the 2 or 3 areas that have the most meaningful in terms of the MCR would be the LTSS in New Mexico.
Now we were given data from the state from New Mexico.
That was a rate bid within a band.
We were either the highest or the second highest in terms of what we bid.
So given everything that we saw from the state our actuaries and outside actuaries we felt pretty good about that and it's still running in excess of 100%.
We think the state just made some errors in some of their assumptions when they gave us the rate; most notably the challenges of getting out and reaching all these members.
I think secondarily you've got the HOBD or the blind and disabled up in Washington.
And what happened there was again we bid right in line with all the other managed care players using our actuaries and I believe some consulting actuaries and we were fine on the -- on that program in 2013.
But again the state then cut the rates because they assumed greater managed care savings than we told them we could get and I think that all health plans expected to get.
And it was a bit similar to the situation in Texas where the actuaries in the state put it assumptions that are too aggressive.
The state also included psychotropic and other high-cost drugs but didn't give us the tools to manage that.
And I think that cost us somewhere in the neighborhood of $1 million through 9 months.
So like I say some of these are programmatic things.
I know that Florida looks a little bit out of the line.
The MMA new MMA members are coming in I think for the most part in line.
But you've got a pretty significant amount of the real high-cost nursing home patients there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean I guess my real question is you've got 5 states running MLRs over 90% at this point.
So what's the response? I mean growth is obviously important and helpful long term and we're certainly willing to see growing pains et cetera.
But just when do you make a decision? I don't remember the last time Molina exited a program.
So I mean is there a point you're talking about chronic multiyear underpayment? Do you have to sort of put your foot down on any of these states and just say enough is enough? Well I think that the ones that had the most impact are Washington certainly because of how large it is.
And I think we've talked a little bit about the issues in Washington and some potential remedies.
There's really not much different in terms of looking at the membership profiles of the ABD population in Washington and the expansion population.
They're very close in age they're very close in utilization et cetera.
Why not offset one line of business with the other? In Texas that's over 90%.
But a good chunk of that of course is the unrecognized revenue.
Utah has traditionally grown very well.
I think that's more of a Medicare issue so that's why we're looking more at programs than geographies in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just ask one quick on the tax rate? What's your expected tax rate going forward now that you're no longer subject to that compensation deduction limitation? It's Joe speaking.
I don't want to speak to 2015 yet because this rate is very -- our effective tax rate is very much a product of what our pretax income is.
So you speaking just to the fourth quarter Josh a lot just goes to play out it's just going to determine on whether we can pick up any of this ACA insurer fee revenue if we can pick up any of this Texas quality revenue.
If we don't pick that up we're going to be left with a quarterly effective rate of probably between 60% and 65%.
We have the issue of nondeductible expenses which drive the effective rate up as pretax goes down.
So worst case it's somewhere north of 60%.
If some of that insurer fee revenue comes in with the Texas quality revenue it will be a little bit below that.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess I think I agree with the concept that the MLR is high it's new business and you guys just had a track record of bringing down MLR over time.
I guess a lot of times when we see companies view that there is investments in G&amp;A to get there how comfortable are you that the G&amp;A run rate is what you need? That you don't have to rollout new medical management programs in certain states to really get the MLR where it needs to be.
It's Joe speaking.
I think we're pretty comfortable that there's not going to be a huge amount of spend on additional management.
Bear in mind that we capture a lot of the med management cost in our MLR that you'd see on the books right now.
And that's part of what's driving the higher MLRs.
We've talked before about how we've had to staff up in terms of med management care coordination staff.
And that's still the case as we roll out the MMP plans and dive into things like Centennial Care in New Mexico and MMA in Florida.
So I think if anything we're going to see from a percentage basis a little bit of moderation on the admin portion that's built into our MLR.
Research Division</strong> Actually if I can just ask one more.
I guess I understand the comment about the rebate and the expansion states not being able to offset the other business but I do believe that was kind of the point from the beginning.
And it seems like the other companies that are -- reported Medicaid results so far really had pretty strong results broadly speaking.
So I don't see that as a good explanation for why it was up.
Because basically less new business is maximizing its earnings which implies that the core business is the business that is not doing well.
And to therefore break the core business maybe into 2 buckets I know one of your competitors does it this way what they think is interesting of kind of existing business versus new business.
How much of the higher MLR would you say is really new business coming in higher versus existing business and having issues in any of the existing book of business? Well this is Mario.
We are looking at changing the way we report.
I think you sort of hit the nail on the head.
You mentioned earlier that we don't think that a geographic approach which is what we use when we are primarily a TANF is the best way to do this going forward.
We talked about the areas where we really think we have medical cost issues.
John mentioned those just a few minutes ago.
So I don't think it's -- the other thing is on the expansion side the expansion membership has a much bigger impact with us than I think it does with most of the other companies because we have had such a large expansion enrollment.
So this is a bigger issue for us than it may be for some of them.
Okay.
And Kevin if I could just add one technical -- this is Joe speaking one technical point to that I think John spoke to the fact that for the quarter the MLR is probably about 1.2% higher based on the new LTSS business we've added for the MMPs Florida -- sorry Centennial Care and Florida.
Research Division</strong> So I guess 1.2% that could just be a mix shift issue rather than are you saying 1.2% higher just because it is high MLR business? Are you saying it's 1.2% higher because that business is coming in higher than you thought? That's what I'm trying to get to was it coming in higher than you thought? No doubt it's a -- no doubt there's a mix shift there.
On the other hand I think if you look historically we do tend to run higher MCRs when we first enter programs.
Just a result of margin build and conservatism and everything.
Our next question comes from Chris Carter with Crédit Suisse.
Could you just give us an update on how the opt-out rate for the duals is running versus the kind of 50% you previously talked about? Yes this is Terry.
We updated you in September at Investor Day that the opt-out rate is coming in where we expected.
And we were conservative and estimated would be about 50% in that is what we're seeing thus far.
Got it.
So no change.
And then just on the California settlement agreement can you just give us an update there in terms of where you stand in terms of that balance? Sure.
It's Joe speaking.
Just to put the numbers in sequence: quarter 1 we had $5 million recorded for that as receivable; quarter 2 that went to $9.5 million; third quarter it's down to $3.5 million which reflects obviously better performance in California.
So at 9/30 $3.5 million is booked as a receivable of the $40 million available.
Okay.
And then just maybe one more.
I think you said over the next 9 months you're going to add 500 000 members.
I think 350 000 is Puerto Rico.
Can you maybe just break out for us the delta there? Well the rest is Illinois and Florida.
We're picking up 65 000 members in Florida in December as a result of that acquisition and then the continued growth in Illinois.
Our next question comes from Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could maybe characterize what your performance is like now with 9 months of visibility of expansion members.
And how much specifically for that block it's varying state-by-state in where you have trouble or pressures in particular regions? Well it's interesting Matt this is John.
When you compare the populations across states they're very similar in terms of the demographics.
The folks are -- we're seeing a lot of chronic conditions for this population.
But we're not seeing -- we didn't see the initial utilization pick up in places like California and Washington that we saw in Michigan and Ohio.
We think a lot of this is just an educational and a timing issue that folks haven't used services early on here because they didn't know they were available to them they didn't understand the program.
If you look at a study that was just put out by The New England Journal of Medicine...
Yes there was a paper.
This is Mario.
In The New England Journal of Medicine on October 23 a nice little 3-page article about the way that Michigan rolled out their new program for expansion.
And some of the things they did they put a lot of money up front into education they were able to rapidly process and enroll people.
And 36% of the patients that have enrolled have so far scheduled a primary care visit.
So I think if you look at a state that's done it right it was Michigan.
I think states like California where there have been problems with backlogs have contributed to the lower utilization.
But we think it's going to catch-up as people figure out that they've got insurance and they learn how to use it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what about with respect to the adequacy of rates? I realized it's relative to the underlying costs that you're talking about.
But now that you have the visibility that you do do you feel significantly better about the expansion funding than you do? I mean maybe it's just -- sorry if you could just talk on that? Yes.
We believe that the rates are adequate.
What we have a problem with is this asymmetric risk that we have in some of our contracts where we have to return money where we're making profit and absorb losses in other contract areas when we're not.
And that's part of the problem.
We believe that these things should offset that the various product lines should all be evaluated together.
But in terms of expansion for the most part we feel that the rates are adequate.
Research Division</strong> And is there an element of which these the asymmetrical nature of the contracts caught you by surprise? Or has it just been something that you struggled with on an ongoing basis and now it's hurting enough that you're bringing it more to our attention in terms of its prominence? And maybe related to that if you could just touch on the New Mexico situation.
Because that one in particular sounded like it was a surprise to you.
Well with respect to -- this is John.
With respect to New Mexico the surprise was the state implemented at on a retroactive basis it wasn't part of the contract at the beginning of the year.
So that was a surprise to us.
I think that we did realize that there were profit caps and MCR floors and Joe talked about that in the last Investor Day is just typical of a much bigger bite in the third quarter than it had in the first 2.
It's is Joe speaking.
I'd like just to add too.
I think we're seeing more stark disparities for different populations than we have in the past.
It's just been a bit -- it's been surprising how the rates had been off so much between different programs.
I don't think we've seen that before.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Over in some cases and under in others yes.
Yes.
And Matt that suggests that over time each side will correct itself.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Drilling down a little bit more in Florida.
Can you maybe talk about the pressures you saw? I guess you highlighted nursing home services.
Is that in MMA or is that related to in long-term care services you've already been offering there and one of your competitors talked about potential rate relief for a long-term care going back to September 1.
Maybe update us on your thoughts around that as well.
Sure.
It's Joe speaking Andy.
I'll start off with that question or at least to get you started.
A couple of observations.
First you remember from an MMA perspective we've only had these rates since July 1 and we have a very small population in Florida which is something John alluded to in his remarks about how swings in some of these smaller states could be misleading.
With that said what we think we know now based on again all 3 months of data our feeling is that while the MCR is high it's not inconsistent with what we were expecting.
We feel like pharmacy is pretty much within the tracks within the range we expected it to be.
We generally feel like both the Nursing Home and the Home and Community-Based Services are coming in as we've expected.
We're seeing higher inpatient utilization curiously enough than we thought on the TANF side.
So I wouldn't -- I don't think there's a whole lot to read into our Florida performance.
We also this quarter have picked up about $2 million or $2.5 million of unfavorable prior period development from pretty far back in the calendar.
And on a $100 million revenue base that can be pretty distortive.
So when Terry and I both spoke to Florida back at Investor Day in September we talked about an MCR somewhere in the low 90s overall for that business and I don't think we're seeing anything that would suggest it will be different.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the long-term care side around potential updates on rates for September anything? No I don't think we have anything on it.
I don't have anything on that sorry.
Research Division</strong> And then clarifying on the tax update the $7 million is that for all of '13 and the first half of '14 there? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And was it -- is it roughly even every quarter? Or is there lumpiness within those numbers? It's a little bit lumpy.
It's -- about $6 million applies to last year.
It has to do with the size of the executive comp we're expensing which was higher last year.
But essentially it's about $6 million in '13 and then $1 million in the first half of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a last one to squeeze in here.
Any thoughts as we're heading into open enrollment here for the exchanges obviously not a major driver this year.
But any thoughts about how that's going to change maybe heading into next year you think? Well we were pretty conservative last year with our rates.
And in a number of states we've brought rates down to be more competitive.
And I think that we are more competitive.
Having things like the second lowest Silver or the cheapest Bronze plan in a number of markets.
But remember that this is not going to be a big driver for our business.
We've got 2.4 million Medicaid beneficiaries.
We're going to add another 500 000 over the next 9 months.
So while we think it's important from a strategic standpoint to put a toe in the water on the exchanges the real drivers of our business are going to be Medicaid Medicare duals and that's not going to -- the exchanges are not going to make a huge contribution.
Our next question comes from Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> On -- the first question is on the DCP.
You've raised it quite considerably.
What are your plans to -- I mean is that going to stay where it is? And how are you thinking about this? This is somewhat unusual...
Ana it's Joe speaking.
We get a lot of questions about this over time.
The best I can say on that is the DCP is a product of our -- of the reserve we set with our actuaries.
We have a full process with an FSA employed by the company with a full team of actuaries who sets reserves every quarter.
Those reserves are vetted by Ernst &amp; Young.
The way those shake out is the DCP shakes out from those reserve estimates.
So I think it's fair to say we've got more liabilities.
It's factual we have more liabilities on the balance sheet than we have in the past but we don't target the DCP specifically.
My expectation is once these populations get established and we've addressed any kind of claims payment issues which show up sometimes in the beginning of programs.
We're going to drop back down into the mid-40s.
I don't know when that will be though.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So for the purposes of 2014 you're staying at the 50.
As I go back to what we were told at your Investor Day in September and look at the swing factors for what might be bringing your guidance down.
It sounds like the biggest one is the MLR obviously stating such an obviously thing.
And then the offset would be the tax rate.
Everything else seems kind of within the noise if you will.
Would you say I guess and I'm listening to all of -- or looking at your news release and listening to your commentary it feels like you're saying structurally your loss ratio is now trending upward.
And it's not just about kind of one initial spike or anything it's just that you're getting lower rates and you have pressures on your -- whatever profitability caps and so on.
And so is that fair? I somehow kind of come out thinking the Medicaid Expansion and potentially even duals the rate setting was a little more fair and so you might at least be neutral if not better.
Well Ana I think I would say that a little differently.
I think what we tried to emphasize is that the -- we assumed that we would get 100% of the Texas pay-for-performance quality revenue and the health insurer fee.
And those are things that are largely beyond our control and we really thought this would be resolved by this time of the year.
Now that we are nearly in November and they're still not resolved we don't have as much confidence and we tried to convey that to everyone.
There is a slight upward trend in the MCR and we tried to explain that.
A lot of it has to do with certain contracts in certain states.
I don't think that it's necessarily a overall widespread trend.
I mean you can really talk about this as 3 -- I think 3 major states that are a problem: Washington Texas and New Mexico.
And it has to do with issues around the expansion and the contracts it has to do with the inability to offset givebacks and losses and it has to do with the inability to recognize the insurer fee and the quality revenue.
I think that a component of it is the medical care ratio.
But medical care ratio is a ratio it's not the medical cost per se and that can be affected by a lot of things.
And so when we're giving revenue back to states it affects the MCR but not because medical costs are rising or because we're having medical management difficulties.
Certainly over time I think we can whittle these things down.
You also have to remember and I -- we haven't talked about this.
But when you bring in a lot of these new populations like the duals and like Centennial Care there are requirements to do initial health assessments and often to make home visits.
And a lot of this is an up front cost that we're bearing because of the large influx of new members.
So that's been a strain.
We've had lots of problems with eligibility in New Mexico.
We are getting members retroactively back to January they're coming on in October and it's because the enrollment system that ACS built has been problematic.
So anytime you have enrollment issues and we've seen this in other states in the past when they implemented new systems it makes things very difficult for us.
We need to know who's on the plan when they're on the plan and where they live and how to reach them.
And in some cases we only know that for 1/3 of the members.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I don't want to belabor too much.
One -- just one final point though.
Should we -- as we think about past '14 which is as you've said a transition year as we model '15 is it an okay thing? Or am I just being too optimistic to model like an 89%-ish ratio? Or should we kind of be thinking about 90.5% 91% blended? Come in February Ana and we'll clarify it for you.
Our next question comes from Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to reframe it a slightly different way.
What I hear you saying to in several questions is that there are a lot of fairly discrete large-dollar amount items that are subject to a signature a negotiation an agreement with the state things that Dr.
Molina you just mentioned are kind of out of your control -- I guess there at least in your control to put shoulder against the yield and continue to push.
If you don't get them this year I mean what is a reasonable time frame for us to think about you're ultimately getting some of these things? And then secondly when you do get them do you expect that they will be retroactive back to the beginning of the period we've been measuring? So yes let me respond to that.
I do think these things will be retroactive.
We have had discussions with the state of Texas.
They recognize that the health insurer fee is a legitimate cost and they believe there's an obligation to pay it.
We know that the state of California is planning to submit a rate amendment for approval by CMS in November that will cover this period.
The problem is even if CMS were to do that it often takes 60 to 90 days to get that amendment processed at the state get the contracts signed and the check cut.
So I think we will get paid.
I'm just not sure that we're going to get paid in this year.
The other problem we have is that while we have had communications with them they haven't put it in writing sufficient that we can accrue the revenue.
So it's not that we believe the revenue's not coming and there's some big chunks of it out there but this is mostly going to be a timing issue.
Nevertheless it will affect from an accounting standpoint the results for 2014 if we don't secure those written agreements before the end of the year.
And Dave this is John.
Let me just follow up one thing.
We have every confidence that on the HIF stuff we're going to collect it we don't want people to run wild if we collect $50 million in the first quarter of next year for example and think that's a run rate.
So that's why we are downplaying a lot of these quarter-to-quarter fluctuations and looking out for the long term.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Just a quick follow-up on that.
The -- in your press release your HIF fee collection or expectation for the fourth quarter actually drops from what you collected in the third quarter.
Could you explain that for me? Sure.
It's Joe speaking Dave.
I think we noted that in this quarter Utah and Michigan caught up and in effect paid 75% or 9 months worth of that base fee.
Not the tax effect but the base fee.
So there's a catch up in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question kind of come.
Sorry go ahead.
I was just saying my final...
The one we're going to focus on is that $50 million still out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question coming back to kind of confidence of negotiations.
Dr.
Molina what would -- how would you describe your confidence on negotiating with the states around these potential offsets relative to the confidence on collecting the HIF fee? Well I think that we enjoy good relationships with our state partners.
And I think that they are unattended consequences of their actions so I think that if there's strong policy arguments as to why these things should be changed.
Any time you come in with new contracts and new programs or you expand populations there are always unforeseen results.
So I think there's a good chance that we can get some relief on these things.
It just makes sense.
Our next question comes from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think we understand the HIF and the Texas quality payments and the Washington settlements going on.
But I'd like to get what's causing the loss ratio to be higher? And how much higher is it? If I adjust for those 3 things in this quarter I still come up with a loss ratio that's over 90%.
So can you tell us what you were expecting in this quarter relative to sort of that 90% 90.1% or so? All right.
So yes Pete I think that the -- one of the big drivers is the double whammy in the state Washington with the ABD population having a higher MCR.
Now remember while it was a net $11 million drag it was really a $19 million unfavorable hit.
And most of that if not all of that hit the ABD line.
And so you have this ABD problem and then we had the revenue reduction due to the giveback of $17 million? Correct.
It's the adjustment for the MLR floor and Washington Pete.
That's $23 million year-to-date but $17 million of that was in the third quarter.
So if I were modeling I might take that $23 million and spread it over 3 quarters rather than cram it all into the third quarter.
I think the other thing to note is that Washington does their calculations slightly differently for the expansion than the rest of the states in which we have contracts and that does have some impact.
We haven't quantified it yet but we just know that the arithmetic is different.
And then you've got New Mexico with both a higher LTSS.
We thought that that was going to come in a high 90s not over 100%.
And that is then exacerbated by the retroactive issues related to as Mario said the retroactive membership.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll try that a little -- slightly different way.
The stuff that can be resolved from a rate change that's not 1 of those the 3 things that we've already talked about a lot when do you expect those rate actions to potentially happen for you next year as opposed to just your normal regular way improving the cost trend of the business and getting the new members to have lower loss ratios over time? What do you expect from rate actions to help you out and when? Okay.
We're having more rates come up Jan 1 than we did before.
A lot of states have shifted it.
So I think New Mexico has shifted.
Washington we're having those discussions right now.
And whether or not we get rate increases or policy changes that have a similar effect it's a little too early to tell right now.
Yes this is Mario.
I think if you look at what happened with California when they brought the ABDs in for a long time 1 year 1.5 years there was a lot of turmoil.
But California eventually got it right.
And if you look at the performance of the California health plan there's been a dramatic change.
And so you see what getting the rates right can do.
But we need to work with the states' actuaries and some of their policy people to make them understand this.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Puerto Rico what are you expecting for a loss ratio on that business when it first starts up with you? We're not talking about Puerto Rico other than just the membership and the revenue because that was put out by the Medicaid agency.
We'll talk about other expectations probably in February.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what were your Hep C costs in the quarter? Yes the Hep C costs are built into the pharmacy numbers that we reported.
It hasn't been extraordinary.
However having said that with this new drug being approved I think a lot of doctors have been warehousing their patients waiting for an all-oral option and I expect Hep C costs to rise.
There was a letter that came from the financial association of Medicaid directors that went to the Senate Finance Committee asking for some sort of action to be taken.
There's also a lot of concern being raised by people in corrections where the states are completely on the hook for the care of the patients there.
And we're seeing a lot of people who are voicing a lot of concerns about how these drugs have been priced.
So I think in the next year you're going to see some action there.
We also have some carve out arrangements in Florida and Washington which I think will be helpful.
So all the states are looking at this.
Everybody's scratching their head trying to figure out what to do but I don't think it's going to go along status quo in 2015.
Our next question comes from Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up on the Puerto Rico contract.
You had some prior experience there where you were awarded the contract didn't like the rates and ended up not participating.
Is this contract finalized and you are comfortable with the planned reimbursement? Well first of all I don't think the contract is finalized yet.
And secondly the previous procurement was withdrawn.
So it wasn't a matter of we didn't like the rates we didn't sign.
We never got that far because the whole procurement was withdrawn.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I actually -- as you responded I realized I think I'm confusing you with -- Centene may have won a couple of RFPs ago and pulled out.
So I'll just withdraw that question.
The other question I had was on the compensation deduction since there's no explicit piece of that that excludes Medicaid plans or government plans generally I'd just be interested in why you think the Medicaid business would be exempt from that and whether there's been any conversation with either Treasury or IRS or if it's just the opinion of the tax and legal advisers.
It's Joe speaking.
To your last question no there hasn't been any specific discussion with the IRS about this.
The -- we feel like no the preamble to the final regs is pretty clear about how the de minimis test is going to be calculated.
And what that de minimis test really comes down to obviously is a numerator and the denominator.
And we are very confident the way we read the final regs that that numerator would exclude Medicaid premiums.
Now let me just say though that test for recognition of income tax expense is more likely than not.
So Carl this is not like a revenue recognition issue where the standard of recognition is near certainty.
This is the more likely than not test.
But we've spoken to our tax advisers.
We've read the preamble of the final regs.
We've read the final regs.
We've been through the de minimis test and we're confident we pass it.
And Carl the auditors have bought off on this.
And I think just our tradition of pretty conservative accounting should give you some comfort.
That was our last question.
I'll turn the call back to you Mr.
Orellana.
Well thank you very much for listening to our quarterly call.
We look forward to talking to you next time.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Molina Healthcare Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded Monday February 9 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana SVP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ash.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2014.
The company issued its release reporting these results today after the market closed.
And the release is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder given that our Investor Day presentation will take place this coming Thursday where we will discuss the company’s outlook for 2015.
Today we will only be taking questions related to our earnings release.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of February 9 2015 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our discussion.
I have just a few comments today but I’ll turn the call over to John who will delve into our financials in greater detail.
I’m pleased to report that 2014 was a year of continued success in delivering on our strategic objectives.
When compared with 2013 our revenue grew by almost 50% our enrollment increased 36%.
We expanded our geographic footprint to new markets in South Carolina and Florida.
And we achieved greater economies of scale as evidenced by the consistent decline in our administrative cost ratio throughout the year.
Two years ago at our Winner Investor Day we shared with investors our plan to nearly double the size of the company by the end of 2015.
Our milestones for the quarter and the year confirmed that we have made considerable progress towards that end but more importantly that our goal is now clearly within our reach.
Last month I had the opportunity to meet with many of our investors at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco to talk about the company and our strategy.
As I shared in my presentation the revenue and enrollment momentum that we generated throughout 2014 has carried forward into the first quarter of 2015.
In January alone our enrollment grew by nearly 200 000 members led by new marketplace and Medicaid expansion lives.
While the actual enrollment gains in our dual-eligible plans have been overshadowed by the gains in our marketplace and Medicaid expansion plans.
Let me remind everyone that the revenue impact of one dual-eligible member is comparable to adding almost five Medicaid expansion members or 10 traditional TANF members.
The continued addition of members with dual and long-term services and supports benefits shifts our focus towards more chronic home-health and long-term care services for these members and away from nor episodic and acute medical conditions we have seen in our TANF members.
Several years ago I introduced a chart that nicely illustrated the market segmentation of our business in the form of a pyramid.
Today I want to remind all of you that this chart is still applicable as much today as when it was first presented.
While our mothers and children continue to form the foundation of our membership base we have continued to move towards a more complex care by adding more elderly and disabled members that now include the duals and long-term care beneficiaries.
The implementation of our duals and standalone long-term care contracts will allow us to continue to evolve our model of care for members with chronic medical conditions.
While at the same time refining our operational processes for the duals contracts in Michigan and Texas.
As in aside our duals contract in South Carolina became operational this month with voluntary enrollment.
As I discussed last month during the conference we continue to expect 2015 to look a lot like 2014.
In 2014 we experienced rapid membership and revenue growth requiring the assimilation of new members across all lines of business.
And we expect much or the same this year.
While this growth may come with the usual set of growing pains as we have seen in 2014 it adds tremendous opportunity for us to greatly expand our business.
Harnessing this unprecedented growth is a key area of focus for us in the near future.
We’re very excited about the growth that we have seen this past year and with our successes in lowering the percentage of revenue spent on administrative cost.
Staying true to the mission of our company and their values has allowed us to navigate through this exciting time.
And we are looking forward to 2015 and to what the future holds for the company.
I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
Although we did not meet our earnings expectations in 2014 we did good on many of our commitments to revenue growth and a greater administrative efficiency.
When we see you in New York on Thursday we will talk more about how our work in 2014 has set the stage for continued growth and improved profitability in the future.
Right now though I want to focus on 2014.
Today we reported full year earnings at $1.30 per diluted share on a GAAP basis or $3.43 per diluted share on an adjusted basis.
This represents an improvement of more than 35% on a GAAP basis from our earnings of $0.96 per diluted share reported for 2013.
We reported $3.13 per diluted share on an adjusted basis for the full year of 2013.
Total revenues for the year grew by almost 50% compared with 2013 reaching a record of almost $10 billion.
Putting this in perspective we had more revenue in the first three quarters of 2014 than we had during all of 2013.
Five of our health plans now generate over $1 billion in premiums.
And two health plans California and New Mexico doubled their revenue in 2014 alone.
This revenue growth was driven primarily by two key factors significant increases in enrollment and higher premium revenue for many of our members.
The higher premiums per member resulted from our continued transition from a company operating an acute care business to un-serving members with complex care needs that include behavioral healthcare and long-term services and supports.
Members with more complex-needs bring with them a higher per-member per-month premium.
2014 enrollment grew to 2.6 million members an increase of almost 700 000 members over year-end 2013.
Membership growth was strong across all lines of business but was driven by Medicaid expansion and the membership added in South Carolina Illinois and our Acquisition of First Coast Advantage in Florida.
Per-member per-month premium grew by nearly 20% over the prior year and was primarily a result of new Long-Term Services and Supports or LTSS benefits now included in our managed care programs in California Florida Illinois New Mexico and Ohio.
As we promised back in February of 2014 we were able to deliver significant improvements in administrative efficiency throughout the year.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue declined to 7.3% for the fourth quarter of 2014 from 11% for the same period in 2013.
For the full year ending December 31 2014 we experienced an administrative expense ratio was 7.9% versus 10.1% in the same period for 2013.
To remind you the 10-basis point drop in our administrative expense ratio equates to an expense reduction of approximately $10 million or about $0.12 per diluted share directly to the bottom line.
As we discussed last year we devoted significant resources to infrastructure and human capital investments that were necessary to fuel our anticipated growth.
As our new growth business came online during the year we were able to finally realize the benefits of those investments.
Our greatest financial challenge in 2014 was reflected in the increase in our medical care ratio over 2013.
While we were pleased that our medical care ratio actually dropped slightly in the fourth quarter of 2014 when compared to the third quarter of 2014 our medical care ratio for the full year of 2014 was 240 basis points higher than in 2013.
We attribute the year-over-year increase in MCR to four factors.
First a significant amount of our revenue is now coming in from programs that cover long-term services and supports.
As we’ve discussed in the past the percentage profit margins for members receiving LTSS benefits are generally lower than those associated with our traditional membership but the dollar margins are significantly higher.
Second increases to our base premiums in recent years have not kept pace with medical cost trends as states it had to balance the need for rate increases with an increasing number of individuals who are eligible for government programs.
Third a lack of coordination in the design of profit caps and medical cost floors and some of our contracts have resulted in counter-productive outcomes.
And the fourth factor is the inevitable time-lag between the initiation of care coordination and the care management efforts for our members with complex-needs and the realization of financial benefits from those efforts to reduce margins in 2014.
In San Francisco last month we talked about how we continue to be affected by delays and reimbursement for the health insurer fee in a few remaining states.
We’ve also previously discussed that during the fourth quarter the New Mexico and Texas Medicaid agencies agree to full reimbursement resulting in the recognition of $30 million in the fourth quarter.
We have summarized the still unrecognized health insurer fee revenue for 2014 in the earnings release.
The net amount outstanding from the California Michigan and Utah Medicaid agencies is approximately $20 million.
In other words had we been able to recognize this revenue in 2014 our EPS would have been higher by $0.26.
Finally I want to highlight our cash position as of December 31 2014.
The company had cash in investments of around $2.6 billion including approximately $200 million at the parent level.
Most importantly cash flow from operations increased significantly to over $1 billion for the year ending December 31 2014.
We will be hosting our Investor Day Conference in New York City this Thursday February 12 at 12:30 p.m.
Eastern Time.
At that presentation we will be discussing the company’s outlook and strategy for 2015.
We look forward to seeing you there or encourage that you listen the other webcast.
Since we will be discussing 2015 outlook in New York on Thursday as Juan José said we will not be taking calls or questions on this subject matter today.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we are now ready to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush Securities.
You may proceed with your question.
Thank you.
I was hoping that you could break out some of the out-of-period items in the quarter.
It looked like there was about $0.21 of health insurer fee that was the out-of-period benefit and the $0.10 Texas bonus headwind.
But I wasn’t sure if there was unusual flu activity.
SG&amp;A came in about 20 basis points better than guidance.
I wasn’t sure if that’s just out-of-period revenue or if there is some sustainable improvement there? And then last if there was anything going on in Florida related FCA Acquisition like a reserve belt? Thank you.
Hi Sarah it’s Joe speaking.
As with any quarter we have and I could discuss with you four hours a whole pile of one-time out-of-period adjustments favorable and unfavorable.
I think really other than the pick-up from the ACA health insurer fee in Texas and New Mexico I would say that the pluses and minuses kind of evened out this quarter.
Texas quality revenue continues to remain a headwind.
And I think we spoke about that.
There is about $19 million or $20 million of that potentially still left on the table that we might be able to realize in 2015 if we get information from the state.
And that information indicates we’ve earned the quality revenue.
Again there is a lot of step back and forth New Mexico for example is a state.
It’s a state with considerable activity this quarter and this year in terms of retroactive enrollment adjustments to reserves.
I’d say the same thing about Florida in the second half of the year as a result of revenue increases that are going to come in retro to September 1 2014 that we were able to recognize.
So you’ve seen some out-of-period stuff reflected in those states.
And I think it’s meaningful.
But in general I think you can just look at it in terms of the health insurer fees being the one item.
Yes Sarah this is John.
This is why we always caution everyone against trying to take a quarter and extrapolate future run rates.
That’s why we rather look at a longer period of time one or two years as opposed to one or two quarters.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Carter with Credit Suisse.
You may proceed with your question.
Thanks good afternoon.
Just wondering if you could give us an update on New Mexico I know the LTSS members are running access of 100% MLR there last quarter just curious how that book is tracking this quarter.
It’s Joe speaking again Chris.
I don’t think we’ve seen anything drastically changed about New Mexico.
Obviously we’ll talk about that more on Thursday at Investor Day.
I would say though that despite what the recorded numbers are showing you I don’t think there has been deterioration in New Mexico or Florida this quarter.
And there is like just a huge amount of retroactivity with membership and other issues in New Mexico.
So I think what we said last quarter it pretty much stands.
Got it.
And then just maybe some more commentary on Washington did you guys get a rate increase there or anything on the ABD book? Chris we’re going to be talking about all the 2015 rates on Thursday.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
You may proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
First question just on Texas I think in the press release you talked about the $25.5 million that wasn’t recorded and you said $20 million was lack of information I guess to substantiate the payment.
So what’s the other $5.5 million? Josh its Joe again.
The other $5.5 million is essentially revenue we don’t think we’re going to be able to recognize related to 2014.
Okay.
So you have visibility on that but you just don’t think you hit the matrix or whatever they changed often and that’s sort of so that’s normally there? Correct.
And then what about timing for the ACA reimbursement from California have they given you a timeline as to when they will reviewing this and do they have any rationale for why they are one of the only states that doesn’t believe that this should part of rates? Josh we’re going to talk more about that on Thursday.
But California is making progress albeit slow.
So there is a light at the end of the tunnel and there is another train coming our way.
Okay.
It’s not something where you feel like you need to start taking legal action or anything like that? No.
This is Mario.
My understanding is that they have submitted something to CMS and they’re waiting approval.
Okay got you.
And then just last question I know we don’t want to talk about a specific quarter and extrapolating and I know you’re not going to give guidance for ’15 but that’s our job.
So I have to ask.
The 2014 number as you guys think about it how would you break-out the one-time items? Obviously we know the ACAP and we know the tax performance fees.
And I guess we can determine whether or not we think taxes is run rate or not.
But I know Joe just mentioned some retroactivity in the quarter.
So I’m just trying to figure about if you think about what is like the run rate so getting about 2015 but where do we start in 2014 as sort of a baseline of what you think you’ve earned on a run rate basis? It’s Joe speaking.
I think it’s I mean all-in Josh I would kind of look to I would kind of look to what we reported for the full year.
That’s all-in that I think says what our year is pretty well once you smooth everything out I wouldn’t look to a quarter.
But I think the full year rate of 89.5% is that’s our run rate for 2014.
So this is Mario I just want to kind of reemphasize what Joe said.
This has been a lumpy year because of a lot of timing issues things like the ACAPs and so forth.
New programs coming in some rate adjustments here and there retroactive membership it’s been added to the plan.
So it’s very difficult to do much with the quarter but I think that to Joe’s point look at the year-end results.
And that gives you a pretty fair picture smooth out of what the year look like.
Yes and I was looking more at the EPS number.
So I was thinking about like $1.30 and then Texas is $0.33 and the un-reimbursed health insurance fee is $0.26.
So after adjusting for those do you think that that’s relatively reflective of what you think Molina’s underlying earnings are? I would say Josh that’s reflective of what 2014 underlying earnings are.
We’re going to speak more to 2015 on Thursday.
Yes I mean clearly there are some things like the ACAP reimbursement that hurt us this year that was really outside of our control.
If you look at the medical care ratio it’s about what we thought I was going to come in at when we gave guidance last year.
Okay all right.
Perfect thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
You may proceed with your question.
Good evening this is Mike Meesha in for Justin.
Did the fourth quarter include any one-time transaction costs from the First Coast Advantage Acquisition? And also can you break down sharing the transaction details or expected accretion from the deal? It’s Joe speaking.
As far as transaction cost they were pretty minimal.
And how about any transaction details or accretion? We brought over 63 000 members in the Jacksonville area it was an asset purchase in terms of the revenue accretion and it’s probably it’s not material at this point.
Okay.
And does the deal have any sort of skewing effect on the elevated MLR in for the quarter or was that really not much of the factor? It’s Joe speaking.
If you look at the Florida standalone results for the quarter yes.
Because when we do when acquisition of that especially in December the way we book reserves it’s going to be a factor and pushing up the fourth quarter Florida MLR but not consolidated.
And do you have a sense of where the Florida MLR would have been current x the transaction? I can’t speak to that but I would just say that given everything that’s happened in Florida this quarter back in New York in September I said Florida was probably going to run in the low 90s and I’m standing by that prediction.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
You may proceed with your question.
Okay great.
Thanks.
I guess just going back to the Texas if for a second I guess you didn’t book $5.5 million.
How do we think about that number is that a number where you say well the number was $32 million annually.
Then you always only collect 90% of it or 80% of it or is that a number that you think you should be consistently getting 100% over what that has been historically? This is John.
It changes every year because the State of Texas changes the T for P metrics.
So this year on the metrics that we got visibility on we think that we’re not going to achieve 100% compliance.
So we think that’s going to result in $5 million get-back.
In 2015 it may be different depending on what the measures are on our performance.
But I guess do you have like a 2013 number? Yes actually there was I want to say in 2013 there was $4 million or $5 million we were unable to recognize too.
So in that regard it’s been consistent.
Okay.
And I guess I appreciate the fact that from quarter-to-quarter a lot of moving pieces and you’ve grown so much that it’s difficult to kind of look at things on a quarterly basis.
But I guess just qualitatively as we think about the quarter there are some books of business that you just brought online this quarter some books of business that you had for a couple of quarters now.
As you guys think about that normal progression of a company bringing out a lot of revenue is there any book whether it’s duals or long-term care or whatever is performing not the way you would have thought in a good or bad is there any clarity you can give around how you feel like qualitatively the progression is coming in? And then if you can kind of break it out between your Medicaid expansion versus core TANF versus duals versus long-term care that would be helpful? Kevin that is a great question and we actually have a slide on that.
We’ll be talking about that on Thursday.
Okay all right.
I guess so I look for that.
Perfect.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Wright with Sterne Agee.
You may proceed with your question.
Thanks.
It seems like since there were some retro membership assigned in both Florida and New Mexico did I hear that correctly? Brian much more in New Mexico New Mexico has been having retro revenue - I’m sorry retro enrollment additions all year.
And that’s completely separate from your negotiations with regard to the separate minimum MLR by products in New Mexico? As far as I know yes I think it’s just a matter of the state.
And everybody in New Mexico has been working hard to get members on so they can get care.
And that rolled out during the year and some people were enrolled retro.
I apologize but did you give us the dollar amount of the negative impact for the byproduct MLRs in certain states like New Mexico? Say that again Brian.
Wanted to just know kind of how much the results were hurt in ’14 by kind of byproduct MLRs in states like New Mexico and sort of like a consolidated minimum MLR? Okay.
Well Brian let me speak to yes we have a line on our balance sheet for the amount payable back to the states about $527 000 is payable back to the states for various issues.
About $390 000 or $400 000 of that relates to Washington California and New Mexico combined.
Let me clarify Brian that was $570 million not $570 000.
Okay thank you.
And then if I can just sneak one last one in here.
Way back in ’05 you guys took a run at Georgia just any updated thoughts? So our understanding that the RFP was released today.
And so anytime an RFP is released we evaluate whether we want to proceed.
You have people in the state currently? What do you mean by people Brian? You mean do we have staff there? No.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
That’s all I’ve got.
Thanks.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
You may proceed with your question.
Okay.
Well thanks.
I just wanted to come back to Florida quickly here on the MLR.
I heard a comment about the acquisition but I guess I believe you got a rate increase on the long-term care side.
I could be wrong.
But assuming you did did things Joe still shape up as you when you talked about the MLR last fall did you assume the rate increase in the context of your comments? Yes that’s correct Chris.
And there was a rate increase in Florida back in September ’01 just as a result of timing of communication of that and signing of the paperwork and everything.
We weren’t able to recognize any of that increase in 2014.
So that’s one reason of why the fourth quarter had such a high MLR.
So there is a definitive delay and revenue recognition in Florida that’s hurting the quarter.
Okay all right.
So then I guess how much would can you give us a sense for how much the rate increase would have impacted results? I don’t have that specifically Chris but I think if we have APU combine that with the impact of the way we book the acquisition you definitely push down below 95%.
Okay.
And then I guess… I think we’re going nothing below 90s there with all the said and done.
Okay.
And then I guess just on the flip side California continues to track pretty well here.
Any sense for how we should think about sort of I know this is kind of a 2015 question but just sense about trends going forward how the state is looking at the rates there? How you feel about rates in California generally? Thanks.
I think California is a real good illustration that we can carry on to places like Florida and New Mexico and Washington.
California recognized that it has under-priced specifically the ABD population.
And over a period of about two to three years they raised that rate.
And as we grew the business grew profitably.
So again I think that over the next several years when we’re working with other states on the base rates because the lack of rate increases over a period of time can squeeze margins.
This is Mario.
I just want to put in the plug for medical management as well.
I mean it’s not simply a passive issue about getting your rate increase.
The management team in California did a good job as well of trying to improve the performance of the plan they deserve credit too.
That’s the difference between the doctor and the lawyer in the line of business.
There you go.
Thanks a lot.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
You may proceed with your question.
Yes thanks.
Good evening.
The first question I had was on G&amp;A outlook as you point out.
It’s extremely sensitive and much of the bottom line.
In terms of the fourth quarter and in business expansion costs and other things for ’15 was that in any way more front-loaded? So as you’re thinking about 2015 is there likely to be more improvement going forward? Ana you said the word outlook.
So we’re going to get into all of the admin.
Remember we’re going to be bringing on in Puerto Rico and some other of the duals contracts in 2015.
So we’ll go through the whole admin discussion on Thursday.
Okay.
Anything at all on whether or not you had ’15 cost what was the magnitude of the ’15 cost in the fourth quarter? I’m sorry Ana we didn’t hear that any magnitude of what? Anything you can comment on as far as just how much of the business expansion cost might have been booked upfront? I mean I would say in general they weren’t substantial.
When we were in New York we expected G&amp;A back in January we said G&amp;A would run about 7.5% on the fourth quarter it’s a hair below that.
But year-to-date we’re right basically where we said we’d be.
I wouldn’t we continue to make good progress on the G&amp;A front but I don’t think there is something there is huge upside out there beyond what we’ve already talked to you about.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Joe.
On flu and Hep-C did you say anything about that if you did in your prepared remarks I’m sorry but what was the experience in the fourth quarter and as the flu season peaking? Sure.
So on the flu season I think it’s been a moderate increase from last year so 2014 a little bit higher than 2013 but not a lot.
And on Hepatitis C as you know we have been able to reach accommodation with many of our states on some sort of reimbursement mechanism so that’s mitigated a lot of the risk that we face on the Hepatitis C front.
And the current Hepatitis C utilizations included in our numbers for the quarter.
Okay thanks.
One last one on based on claims payables is where you are right now something that you see as your normalized levels of where you need to be? It’s Joe speaking.
I would think that over time that DCP number is going to come down.
Right now obviously we still have a lot of business it’s starting.
Any claims that we’re associated with the Florida acquisition very few of those were paid in December because we just started.
So I think I think over time you’ll see us work our inventories down which will in-turn reduce the days and claims payable as a byproduct of that.
I don’t know when that’s going to happen because we got some growth in front of us next year.
But I think in general as we look out over a couple of years that number will come down.
Thanks so much I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
You may proceed with your question.
Hi guys good evening.
So I want to come back a couple of things I want to come back to Josh’s question on run rate and put a final point on it.
Joe you mentioned $1.30 was a good number but if we add back the $0.26 for the ACA impact $0.33 for the Texas quality impact we get to $1.89.
Is that a reasonable number to think about in terms of us now thinking about next year? Yes.
My thoughts were more on the MCR level.
I think we’ve laid it out Tom.
I think if you add back in the health insurer fee and a good chunk of the Texas quality revenue that’s where you get.
I would just caution everybody that we’re going to be talking again about 2015 on Thursday.
So things can change in the course of the year.
So that considering the $1.89 just for conversation purposes now and looking out at the consensus numbers that are out there of around $2.51 it implies like 33% growth.
And I would think a company like yours seeing all kinds of growth would be fairly comfortable with that number.
Would you feel uncomfortable putting percentage? Tom Tom Tom nice try.
But that’s you’re asking us to confirm something that we’re going to talk about on Thursday.
All right.
What are the things? So let’s go to the Texas quality payment again.
There has been some dialogue around this now for a while so I apologize.
But relative to the $20 million that you highlight that lacks information.
Is that run-out data that you need from the state in order to evaluate the framework? And I guess what is your gut feeling in terms of that coming into the company either in first quarter or second quarter of this year? So Tom this is Mario.
This is a very complex calculation.
And it depends not only on our performance but our performance relative to our peers.
So even if we know how we’re doing on some of these measures it’s very difficult for us to be able to recognize the revenue because we don’t know where we stand in relation to everyone else.
That’s one of the problems with these new measures that Texas has come up with.
If you look at some of the measures we had from 2013 we did not settle that until December of 2014.
So it could take a while before we get clarity on the Texas performance measure that’s still outstanding.
Right I appreciate that.
But you must have you have some comfort around the $5 million right in not being able to capture that? The $5 million is really more related to HETA [ph] scores which are pretty easy to calculate.
Okay.
So I guess what’s your comfort level around the $20 million is that it sounds like there is some risk there still to it.
Is it do you feel like you’re going to get 80% of it? I think it’s difficult for us to say at this point.
Okay.
I think potentially we’re going to pick up some of it but I can’t tell you how much.
If we had insight into that we’d record the revenue or tell you can we would have recorded the revenue.
So right now we just know enough.
And then one last one the tax rate in the quarter seemed a little lower than was implied through the guidance discussions we had all through 2014.
Is that the case you think and if it was why do you have a lower number? We’re just going to be talking about tax rates in New York on Thursday but not to steal this thunder.
But in general remember with a large non-deductible expenses we have to the extent pre-tax income increases you’re going to have a decrease in your effective tax rate which is what happened this quarter.
Okay all right thank you.
So you are correct.
It would be a little lower than some it would be lower than some people might have expected.
All right good deal.
Thanks.
Thursday.
Thursday.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
You may proceed with your question.
Thanks.
And looking at your Texas quality payments for the quarter they actually went down from the third quarter.
You’re expecting to see more coming in from next year.
Can you explain to us why they went down from one quarter to the next? It’s Joe speaking.
First of all we’re not saying anything about what we expect to receive or not receive what we expect to earn next quarter.
All we’re saying is that of the $25 million of Texas quality revenue related to 2014 $20 million of that was not recognized because we do not yet have the appropriate metrics from the state to assess our compliance.
As far as the actual number the amount recognized in fourth quarter dropping that’s because we realized that $5 million was not going to be recognized as a result of some hiatus measures we didn’t hit.
So again I just want to emphasize we don’t have visibility right now right now into how that $20 million is going to play out in terms of whether we’d be able to recognize it or not.
Right now it’s unrecognized.
And we’ll recognize it if we indeed earn the revenue.
So the revenues would have been higher if you hadn’t made the decision that $5.5 million wouldn’t be recognized is that a fair statement? That’s correct that’s correct.
Okay.
And then can you talk about Hep-C a little bit more in detail.
How many states have carved out specifically vacillating you from utilization of Hepatitis C drugs so not necessarily included into your rates but created some kind of a car value there are kick payment or something like that? Off the top of my head I can’t tell you that.
But I know that most of our States’ grafts almost all of them have done something to mitigate the Hepatitis C and starting a variety of different mechanisms.
So it’s kind of it’s very complicated.
But we do have a fair amount of protection on mitigation not entirely.
And clearly we don’t have that for the Medicare business on the Part B side.
But there are other issues with Medicare Part B.
So I’m feeling pretty good about it now much better than I did this time last year when we thought this was potentially a budget buster for us having said that it’s still a big issue for the states.
And whether they are reimbursing us or paying for fee-for-service this is something that’s going to put a drag on state Medicaid budgets in the future.
Okay.
And then in your prepared comments you said 2015 would be a lot like 2014 but then you said it was a year where they’re setting you up for growth and improve profitability in the future.
Did you imply improved profitability in 2015? And if you did off of what level off the run-rate you guys were talking about or off of the reported numbers? So again when we get into guidance on Thursday what you’re going to see is that 2014 and 2015 are going to be very similar.
And this is another year of growth for us picked up a lot of members in January and February through the marketplace.
And we continue to see growth in Medicaid.
We have the Puerto Rico contract coming in.
And we have some duals contracts that are rolling in so again another year of a lot of growth in revenue and membership.
All right I understand that.
But just regarding the improved profitability in the future what future are we referring to after 2015 or 2015? That’s 2015 right.
Okay got it.
Thanks much.
Our next question comes from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
You may proceed with your question.
Hi good evening thank you.
You’ve addressed for several of the other higher MLR states in your report tonight overlapped with the state that you mentioned about LTSS and then in case of Washington ABD do you feel like you have the appropriate programs and resources deployed in states to be able to continue to attack and work down medical cost and MLR? Or are there still investments that need to be made in those states to get there? I suppose the flip side of that question would be how much of it is rate and how much of it is your execution? This is Terry Bayer I’ll respond to that.
First keep in mind that this is the first time that the full long-term services and supports benefit both from a community base and long-term care facility is coming into managed care.
And like any new program it takes time to really develop and execute on the program.
No different there is a unit cost element but more importantly we’re focused on the coordination programs.
One of the benefits of the duals and the Medicaid and Medicare dollars coming together is that by managing the long-term services and supports we expect to see benefit back on the Medicare side.
Remember that the LTSS is a Medicaid benefit.
So this will not be in place on day one it takes time to build relationships with the facilities to get everybody assessed to get the care plans in place and get it executed before [ph].
But we are really looking at the whole set of services both the Medicaid and Medicare side.
So let me just also add to what Terry said this is Mario.
We have been doing Medicare D-SNPs now for nine years.
We have experienced with many of these benefits in places like California Texas and Florida.
So I think we’re very well positioned to deal with these issues going forward.
And I think that we do have the appropriate staff and experience.
I think our experience with the D-SNPs has been invaluable and will really help us as we try to combine the Medicaid long-term services with the Medicare program of these combined contracts.
So I think I’m pretty confident that we can do this and I think that we’re really well positioned for it.
Thank you.
So follow-on question there what are you seeing in terms of Medicare opt-out in the duals is that leveled off I mean what messaging actions are you taking around that? Well we told everyone at the beginning of the year that we thought it was going to run about 50%.
And it’s been doing that of course it varies a little bit from one geographic region to another.
It depends on things like networks.
Remember if you’ve got a dual eligible beneficiary who is seeing five or six specialists all you need is the one specialist to say I’m not in the network don’t stay in that health plan.
So that’s I think part of what contributes to this part of its network.
The other thing is frankly the way these things are rolled out there is a lot of confusion for the beneficiaries.
And some of these people dis-enroll before they even find out what the program is all about.
I think that to the extent that we have a longer voluntary enrollment period and more of an ability to explain to the members the benefits of the program as we’ve done with the D-SNPs in the past people will sign-up I think they will see it’s beneficial to them.
But it’s going to take a while and I think some of the people that are opting out now may come around and rejoin us in the future because we will still be responsible for their long-term care services.
Thank you for the answers.
The final question is a follow-up question from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Great thanks for letting me hop back on here.
I just wanted to come back Mario I could have misheard you.
But did you say that you just recognized some quality moneys in Texas from 2013 in the fourth quarter of ’14? It’s Joe speaking that’s correct.
The amounts were fairly small.
But I think there was $300 000 or $400 000 it just got cleaned up in late 2014 related to 2013.
I think Mario’s point was there is an extraordinary.
There can be an extraordinary tail on the determination of these metrics.
They’re extraordinarily complex in their calculation and require time for them to develop.
So while it’s not that specific item wasn’t financially significant.
It does indicate again the tail we have on some of this revenue which really far sees what we even have on claims liability.
All right great.
I just wanted to make sure that it wasn’t something material in the quarter.
Yes.
Thanks a lot.
Yes.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference back to you.
So it probably doesn’t need to be said but we’re looking forward to seeing you all on Thursday where we’re going to provide guidance and talk about our strategy and outlook for 2015.
See you then.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday May 7 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan Jose Orellana SVP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations &amp; Marketing</strong> Thank you Scott.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2015.
The company issued its release reporting the results today after the market closed and the release is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you have multiple questions we ask that you get back it the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of May 7 2015 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Juan Jose.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
I will speak for a few minutes on our start for the year and then hand the call over to John who will provide a financial summary of the quarter.
Molina is off to an excellent start in 2015 and I am very pleased with our current trajectory and progress.
We delivered 38% enrollment growth and 53% revenue growth which together resulted in net income that was about six times higher than the first quarter of 2014.
This success underscores the current growth opportunities of our business and validates our strategic push to diversify into new markets and new programs to manage the healthcare of complex patients and to leverage our administrative infrastructure.
All of this without ever losing sight of quality.
Today's results establish a solid foundation for us to build upon as we set our sights on our targets for the year and to achieve our long-term goals and objectives.
During the first quarter strong membership growth continued as we increased enrollment by 342 000 members sequentially growing to nearly three million members across all of our markets.
Arranging healthcare services for three million members is no simple task.
So I want to take this opportunity to congratulate all of our employees on this milestone achievement.
But more importantly I want to thank them for their hard work and for remaining grounded by always keeping in mind our humble beginnings in a single clinic.
Thank you.
We are currently operating in one of the most exciting periods in the history of Medicaid managed care two of the fastest growing programs in the managed care industry.
The dual eligible demonstration and the expansion of Medicaid are core areas of focus at Molina.
As individuals in these programs transition into managed care the demands for our services will continue to increase.
Our dual eligible membership increased by nearly 90% sequentially fueled by the three health plans that began operations under this program last year California Illinois and Ohio.
Many of you listening to this call have been keenly interested in the opt-out rates for our duals programs.
We continue to experience a consolidated opt-out rate of about 50% consistent with the number we have shared in the past.
Medicaid expansion membership grew by 50 000 new members during the first quarter and by 300 000 when compared to the same period one year-ago.
This product has been and continues to be an area of significant growth for the company.
The health plans that we operate in states that chose to expand their Medicaid programs experienced significant growth.
For example our health plans in California and Washington have each added more than 100 000 new expansion members since the beginning of 2014.
And Michigan New Mexico and Ohio have each added more than 50 000 expansion members as well.
However Texas and Florida two states with large numbers of people without health insurance continue to refrain from expanding their Medicaid program.
While lawmakers continue their debate over Medicaid expansion managed care remains an important value and cost savings proposition.
In terms of new markets our health plan in Puerto Rico went live on April 1 as we welcomed 350 000 new members in the East and Southwest regions of the Commonwealth.
I had a chance to visit with our employees at our offices in San Juan right before the launch and I was very impressed with their efforts to bring up the business under a very compressed timeframe.
From our recent experience in large managed care implementations in Florida Illinois South Carolina and Texas we have learned that anytime large numbers of beneficiaries are transitioned into a new program lack of awareness and confusion are always present among members and providers in the near-term.
Therefore in keeping with past practice we expect to record higher medical costs in Puerto Rico during the onset of the implementation until we have our own claims data.
Now let's talk a little bit about premium rates.
As we think about some of our concerns from last year the rate environment immediately comes to mind.
We continue to view rates in general as an ongoing headwind especially for members in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families category or TANF.
The good news is that the rate relief in the Aged Blind and Disabled category or ABD as demonstrated in our New Mexico and Washington health plans provides us with some comfort that these issues will be mitigated and resolved over time.
Another issue of concern last year was the reimbursement of the Affordable Care Act health insurer fee by our state partners.
While not all states have formally committed to reimbursement of the health insurer fee for 2015 we remain confident of full reimbursement.
As I mentioned previously I am very pleased with our results for the quarter as our revenue and membership growth have maintained the momentum that we developed in 2014.
I remain excited about the continued opportunities we are seeing and the progress we are making as we continue positioning the company for success.
I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
Today we reported net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.56.
Additionally we're reporting adjusted net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.71.
Both numbers represent significant improvements over our results for the first quarter of 2014 and we are all very pleased with our performance.
The first quarter was notable for several key reasons.
First we continue to see robust top line growth.
We added more than 340 000 new members over the course of the quarter with almost three-quarters of those new members coming through the Marketplace.
As we have said previously we took a deliberate and measured approach toward the Marketplace in 2014 given the many uncertainties.
For 2015 we refined our pricing based on 2014 experience and concentrated our network development.
These efforts resulted in significant membership growth during the first quarter.
Florida is our largest Marketplace health plan with 185 000 members while our Wisconsin health plan has about 25 000 Marketplace members and California has nearly 20 000.
While we are still early in the year our cost and utilization experience so far suggests that our Marketplace business for 2015 is priced appropriately.
Second top line growth reflects our growing diversity both geographically and across different programs.
In order to help you better understand that diversity we are for the first time disclosing in today's earnings release our revenue and medical care ratios by product line.
I caution everyone that financial information presented with this degree of granularity is subject to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations.
This is the same situation as with the health plan specific information that we've always provided.
I urge you to use the detailed geographical and product line data to better understand our business tactics our market opportunities and challenges and the complexities of our business.
But use our consolidated results to understand our strategic goals and opportunities to weigh our performance over time and to form your own assessment of the long-term potential of our company.
Third we've gained traction for the time being at least in our efforts to control medical care costs.
Our medical care ratio for the first quarter was the same as it was a year ago and down 70 basis points sequentially.
Fourth administrative cost leverage is improving our profitability.
Finally we achieved strong first quarter results despite the continued drag on earnings from the ACA health insurer fee and Texas quality revenue.
Of course there are always challenges.
As we've said before increases to our base premiums in recent years have not kept pace with medical cost trends.
And we continue to give back revenue due to limitations on medical margins for some programs even as we suffer unacceptably low medical margins in other programs.
Now for some additional details: Premium revenue grew 53% from a year ago and 14% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
While additional memberships certainly contributes to revenue growth membership is only one component of the overall revenue growth story.
Per member per month premium revenue has increased by 15% over the last year as a result of additional membership in higher premium groups such as Medicaid expansion the dual eligibles Aged Blind and Disabled populations and Marketplace.
Turning to medical costs our consolidated medical care ratio remained flat year-over-year at 88.7% and declined by 70 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2014.
As always our health plan financial data disclosure and now our product line financial data disclosure present a complex picture.
To reiterate what I said a minute ago it is our consolidated financial performance that tells you where we're headed.
With that said here are some general observations on our medical cost performance.
First premium rates for our MMP plans in California Illinois and Ohio appear for now to be adequate to support the costs associated with those programs.
Let me remind you that the MMP are the fully integrated duals programs.
Of course we are unable to comment at the moment on our MMP programs in Michigan South Carolina or Texas which have just been launched.
Second we have seen some margin relief for the Aged Blind and Disabled line of business in Washington and New Mexico although not for the long-term care benefit attached to the ABD population in New Mexico.
We are experiencing margin compression in the TANF line of business as Mario said particularly in the states of New Mexico Washington Florida and Utah.
This is consistent with what we've said previously about base premium rates not keeping pace with increases in medical costs.
Third the Medicaid expansion and Marketplace lines of business are for now experiencing lower medical care ratios than our other lines of business.
Fourth on a consolidated basis prior period development did not have a significant impact on our results.
Although we reported a benefit from prior period development in the quarter of $136 million approximately $25 million of that favorable development was offset by reductions to revenue as the result of medical cost floors and corridors.
Once you strip out the PPD that resulted in offsetting adjustments to revenue our metrics look very similar to the first quarters of 2013 and 2012 because we strive to maintain consistent reserving methodologies and do not believe that prior period development had a material impact on our consolidated results.
Days in Claims Payable increased sequentially from December by 2 days to 51 days and by 5 days from the first quarter 2014.
As we've said before diversification across geographers and product lines allows us to mitigate the variations in contribution by market and product.
This is particularly important as we continue to grow and expand our business.
Not only have we been able to diversify on a geographic basis but product line diversification has also provided us with additional stability and opportunity.
First quarter results continue to show the benefits of the administrative cost leverage that we have discussed in the past.
As noted in our earnings release and our 10-Q administrative costs associated with the startup of our Puerto Rico health plan Marketplace broker commissions and Marketplace exchange fees resulted in a general and administrative expense ratio that was higher than in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Absent these costs associated with Puerto Rico and our Marketplace build out our administrative cost ratio would have been approximately 7.4% for the quarter this is consistent with our expectations.
We believe a key comparison to make is with our general and administrative expense ratio for the first quarter of 2014 which was a full percentage point higher than our G&amp;A ratio for the first quarter this year.
I am pleased that we achieved good results this quarter despite headwinds from the lack of full Affordable Care Act health insurer fee reimbursement and our decision to defer recognition of quality revenue related to Texas.
In the first quarter of 2014 we did not record reimbursement for the 2015 health insurer fee in California Michigan and Utah reducing our first quarter income by approximately $16 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
Nor do we recognize any of the outstanding health insurer fee reimbursement related to 2014 which stood at approximately $20 million as of March 31 2015.
We remain confident that all states will eventually reimburse us for the health insurer fee but the timing of our revenue recognition remains uncertain.
To that point the state of California has just reimbursed us for our 2014 health insurer fee.
So we will be recognizing that revenue in the second quarter.
We still do not have formal documentation of California's intent to reimburse us for the 2015 health insurance fee.
So we don't know when we'll be able to recognize 2015 health insurer fee reimbursement from California.
We're only recognizing a portion of the Texas Health Plan's quality revenue for the first quarter of 2015 due to the lack of clarity around the methodology of the calculations.
We have discussed this previously.
As a result about $7 million of the approximately $9 million of quality revenue available in Texas for the first quarter of 2015 which is equivalent to about $0.09 per diluted share was not recognized this quarter.
Nor do we recognize any quality related revenue from 2014 during the first quarter of this year.
The balance from 2014 is $20 million.
The import of this discussion is that our first quarter results for 2015 would have been $0.29 better had we been in a position to recognize these last two items.
You will notice that our convertible debt due February of 2020 has been reclassified as a short-term liability effective March 31 2015 and that the related derivative asset and liability have also been reclassified as current.
Because of the sharp increase in our share price the stock price trigger allowing conversion of the notes into cash has occurred.
No notes have been presented to us for conversion.
And the notes continue to trade at a price in excess of the value that could be realized by a note holder upon conversion.
The excess in value of the notes over the conversion value reflects the value of the coupon rate attached to the notes and the optionality value of the conversion feature over the remaining life of the notes.
As of March 31 2015 the company had cash and investments in excess of $3 billion including in excess of $200 million at the parent.
We've also made some changes to the methodology by which we calculate adjusted net income and related per share amounts.
Specifically we're no longer subtracting depreciation and amortization of capitalized software and share based compensation from net income to arrive at adjusted net income and the related per share amount.
We made this change to better reflect the way in which we evaluate our financial performance making financing and business decisions and forecasts and plan for the future periods.
In addition we believe this calculation makes our adjusted net income more comparable to our peers.
A reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP calculation has been included in today's release and is available there for your review.
Finally and as a reminder from our Investor Day presentation we only provide guidance annually and we don't intend to change guidance unless there's an event that has a material impact on our business.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
Thank you.
And our first question is from Sarah James with Wedbush.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And congratulations on the strong quarter.
It looks like without a few of the delays it would have been even further above consensus.
So I just appreciate the new detail on the product MLR and it's a new metric so I was hoping we could get a little bit more context.
I was looking at the TANF CHIP MLR compared to kind of the range that you guys gave at Investor Day of high 80s for 2014 and 2015 and there's a little bit of gap there between where first quarter is and where the years' were.
And I was hoping you could talk about maybe how non-recognition of the ACA fee or rate updates expected later in the year may be kind of skewing this quarter off of what you had previously talked about annually? So Sarah this is John.
I think while we still continue to grow and get very big we can't forget about seasonality and I think you're looking at one quarter and comparing it to our entire year so that's going to be the big difference.
I don't think that the recognition of the ACA fee is going to have anything to do with – or much to do with that and the Texas quality revenue is primarily in the ABD population so if anything would benefit the ABD population some.
But again short answer is seasonality.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then could you remind us how you guys are thinking about share count with respect to your existing guidance? What's in there as far as share count or treatment of the convert? Sure Sarah.
It's Joe speaking.
I think for guidance we were at around 50 million – I think we were around 50 million which is where we ended up for this quarter I think we were like at 51 million this quarter.
The way I would look at it is once you cross $53 in share price increment about 250 000 shares on a full year basis.
Obviously you've got to weight it for the weighted average over the days.
But about 225 000 shares to 250 000 shares per $1 over $53.
So you can take what we gave you and then peg your estimate of where our share price is going to be for the year and adjust it accordingly.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Appreciate that Joe.
Thanks.
Sure.
And our next question is from Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
I know you don't update guidance but I'm just curious did 1Q come in better than your estimates? I mean obviously above the Street.
But how did that compare to your previous expectations? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Josh.
This is Mario.
As we said at the outset we're going to provide annual guidance.
So for us to comment on the quarter-to-quarter development would in effect be giving quarterly guidance.
So we're not going to comment on that aspect.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll skip that one.
Second question...
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the other hand...
Inc.</span></strong> Yep? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the other hand as I said in my remarks I'm very pleased with the company's performance so far.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
I will add very pleased to the rest of the year I guess.
Texas performance payments so for the 2014 year what are you still – the $20 million that you're waiting on what metrics or what information are you waiting on to see if you can actually record those? And have you been able to rule? I know you're not – you haven't been able to recognize any of that.
But have you been able to rule out any of it? Were there any metrics that you don't think you hit? It's Joe speaking.
We know we definitely missed $4 million in Texas last year.
So there's another $20 million out there.
And it's the – you know it's the same story Josh.
We're just waiting to hear how the state has calculated through its third party how it has calculated the metrics versus how we've calculated.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And you don't – so you can't just rely on your own calculations.
You've got to wait until...? No.
No because it's a very complex calculation subject to a lot of interpretation.
And it's also dependent on other health plan performance.
Josh this is John.
This is the biggest thing is it's rank ordered against other health plans.
So until we know how they did our internal data is only half the picture.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
So you may know how you did right but that doesn't help you in the calculations.
And then just the last one on the health insurer's exchange you know the MLR in the quarter under 81% seems relatively low for a new entrant and big growth et cetera.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're accruing the claims? And then if there's any three Rs assumption? I don't want to preempt Joe's September presentation I'm sure that's coming but curious what the accruals are.
What we're finding so far Josh and this is the beginning of the year – what we're finding though is that utilization is less than we anticipated.
Pretty much substantially less which would suggest that there could conceivably be a – there could conceivable be a risk adjustment downward – adjustment to revenue but we think we've captured that in the calculations of the risk adjustment in the MLR floor and all of that.
So I think in general it's fair to say we don't have any big receivables booked back on anything like risk adjustment.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you have any payables then Joe? No.
We haven't – I think it's fair to say that we anticipate that and we've worked that into our calculation of the anticipated MLR.
I don't want go into details about whether we've got that booked as a higher medical claims liability or a risk adjustment liability but the exercise gets you to the same point.
In a nutshell experience is coming in much less so far much lower than we anticipated.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I mean but just so I understand it's coming in much lower but you don't have a payable? We've adjusted – the best way to express this is between the claims reserved we recorded and the risk adjustment liability we've recorded we think we're very nicely positioned.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got you.
It accrued over...
Yeah.
I guess what I'm trying to say Josh is we don't anything substantial in the way of receivables and we anticipate yes there will payables to put back on risk adjustment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question is from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Great.
Thanks.
I guess maybe just following up on that one so I think you said that you think you've priced appropriately so I guess based on that last comment we should be thinking that the exchanges are tracking to profit this year so far? In our case yes.
Okay.
And then just on the Medicaid expansion MLR can you talk a little bit about the MLR in the quarter? I know some states or many states have these rebate floors wasn't sure if there was anything seasonality where you book the rebate floors more in the back half and so we should expect MLR to rise as the year goes on? Or whether this captures that number and this number might be in some ways sustainable? This is John Kevin.
I think on the expansion the things you have to consider are the rates changed.
And in many cases we discussed this at the Investor Day the rates – the premium rates dropped quite a bit.
So if the MLR goes up it largely is a function of the revenue per member going down.
And then the methodology that different states use to calculate either the floors or the give-backs are different.
So that's going to have a little bit of an impact.
And lastly the time horizon especially for a state like California the measurement period's over 18 months as opposed to 12 months.
So I think what we see in Q1 it's good.
It might rise a little bit.
I don't expect it to go shooting through the roof but I don't expect it to drop much more.
Yeah.
I would just add to that we've had 15 months of experience now with this population.
So I think we've got a pretty good handle on the MLR corridors and floors.
I don't think there's any snapback in that we would anticipate.
Okay.
And the number – because I mean we normally think about floors being in that kind of mid-80 or low-80 range if you're at 77.5.
So can you just remind us maybe how much of your states have floors versus don't have floors there? It's Joe speaking.
They all have some sort of what the states call risk mitigation strategies some kind of risk corridor.
Remember though that the definitions of revenue and expense in those calculations don't match what we show on a GAAP income statement.
So oftentimes our revenue is reduced by certain items and expense can be adjusted too so that the net effect of that is often an MLR floor that is slightly different than that which you would calculate from GAAP.
Okay.
Because I guess the reason that I ask is that obviously you've got a state in Kentucky who's looking to kind of rebid that contract pretty quickly because people were doing well there.
And I know you're not there but just trying to make sure.
So you think that kind of where you are or even in California this past year where there was a big rate cut you kind of think where you are is more in line with directionally where the MLR floors – or do you think that there's rate risk to that over time? I didn't hear the last part of your question.
There's what over time? I was just saying there's rate and risk to that number over time and that states may additionally look to bring that MLR up.
Or whether this MLR is generally in line with kind of where the corridors would put you on a GAAP adjusted basis? Yeah.
I think that the states are taking the same approach.
Their actuaries are looking at the data utilization expected trends et cetera and they're pricing it accordingly.
They weren't as much in the dark as we were in the first year.
And as Joe says as we get more data we would expect that the rates will be adjusted to be more in line with what the actual experience is.
Okay.
Thanks very much...
Which is what we saw starting January 1 of this year.
Right.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question is from Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey.
This Cornelia in for Andy.
I guess just first it looks like your commercial revenues related to the exchanges were 7% of total premiums in the quarter.
Do you think you'll still qualify for the de minimis rule? It's Joe speaking.
We'll have to see how that plays out over the year.
I would just – the only commentary I would make on this is we run this business on an operating basis not a tax basis.
And we're not going to adjust our business strategy directly for a tax strategy but we'll have to see how the year plays out.
But agree we're above the de minimis threshold first quarter.
Okay.
And then just to come back to the Texas quality payments.
So I just want to make sure the 2015 outlook only assumed you received 80% of the 2015 payments is that correct? Mechanically that's correct.
The guidance we gave assumed 80% recovery of the 2015 amount and nothing for 2014.
Okay.
And it now looks like you're sort of tracking similarly to 2014 at this point in the year.
It's difficult to say after one quarter.
We're certainly bluntly still in the dark on the metrics that we haven't heard about from 2014 as we go into 2015.
But also the portion of the revenue that's tied to HEDIS scores we've found it very difficult to recognize that in the first quarter until our data develops further.
So I guess I would just say I don't see anything happening in the first quarter that's going to take us off of what we said in guidance.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question is from Brian Wright with Sterne Agee CRT.
Please proceed.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning – good morning geez.
Good evening.
So one real quick question if one has a view that the stock price goes to $90 what's the cap on the conversion? The incremental kind of share count? I mean the total – I want to say the total shares underlying the 2020 convert Brian are about 13.5 million and then I want to say – I want to say it's something like five million shares underlying the 2014 convert.
I mean I haven't done the math to know what happens at a given share price.
And I think it's unrealistic we'd ever reach those numbers.
But I think it's $13.5 million on the 2020 and $5.5 million on the 2044.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll follow up with you after on some of the details on how to calculate it.
Thanks.
Okay.
Looking forward to it.
Thanks.
And a question from Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good evening.
I wanted to follow up on I think some of the questions around MLR particularly.
So as I look at your – now you have all the membership disclosed by product.
A lot of the new growth is Medicaid expansion and the Marketplaces.
So it seems like a lot of the new business they're probably running at a higher MLR than kind of the existing ABDs and duals where there's not much growth and after 2016 levels sort of anniversary.
So how do you think about what the normalized loss ratio should be across your book of business? And this year you're getting a nice lift I would imagine from some of these higher margin businesses lower MLR.
How does that look as you go forward? And what type of improvement are you seeing in your existing ABD and duals populations as far as normalizing the MLR? Ana give us a minute.
We're going back to take a look at what we said at the Investor Day.
I think the important thing is rather than look at each individual product line as we said in our prepared remarks to look at where the company's going to end up overall we look at the consolidated.
And what we've consistently said is that we want to reach a 1.5% to 2% margin by 2017.
Okay.
So I think you had guided to 90 at the Investor Day for this year which you haven't updated a 7.5% on the G&amp;A ratio.
So it's not a very high bar I guess with 1.5% to 2%.
That's net right? I imagine (37:00) I think that's what it was...
That's right.
The bar I think is – from the outside it may look easy.
From the inside with all the moving parts it's a challenge.
No I didn't mean it that way (37:12)...
And our goal by 2017 is to lower that by 0.5% to 1.5%.
Okay.
So right now I just I think what – all I'm trying to say is that it doesn't look like you would miss that your normalized parts (37:27).
If anything it feels like there might be some upside given that at least for the first quarter you've come in a little bit better right.
So hopefully that's...
Well I think that as Mario and Terry talked about at the last Investor Day we have a new Chief Medical Officer Dr.
Keith Wilson who is re-energizing the medical management.
And they've taken a very member-centric approach to things.
And it seems that as we said for the first quarter we can say it seems that some of the efforts are taking hold.
Okay.
And then you had mentioned also at the I-Day that there's a federal regulation which will help you cross-subsidize.
And some of my channel checks are saying that that's due any day.
Any more color on that? And will that help you out? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
No? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We are – we're still waiting for those regulations.
We thought they would be out.
We have no further information.
We're just going to have to wait.
They'll come out when they come out.
And Ana to clarify I don't think we said that the regulations would allow us to cross-subsidize.
What we said was it was our opinion our profession that these are all Medicaid patients.
So it makes sense to include the Medicaid expansion lives and the TANF and the ABD in one set of risk mitigation calculations as opposed to three separate ones.
Okay.
So blended with Medicaid.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
And we have a question from Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Sure.
Thanks.
This is Ace Fablo (39:12) in for Windley.
I wanted to circle back to the G&amp;A and just get a sense of that 8.1% starting point.
Sure sounds like Puerto Rico once that comes on that will help out with the leverage.
But wanted to get a view of whether or not that was consistent with what you guys were thinking for the first quarter? It's Joe speaking.
Yeah when we line up everything on the G&amp;A side it's first quarter it was very consistent with what we expected for our guidance.
Okay.
And then besides Puerto Rico are there other actions that are going to continue to help drive it lower? Or is it more of a function of business mix and scalability? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's scalability really.
You know we've got a fair amount of revenue.
And you can see by looking at our full-year guidance we got a fair amount of revenue in addition to Puerto Rico still to come on this year.
We've got the three MMP dual programs coming on in Michigan Texas and South Carolina.
If you look back to Investor Day we also talked about some new programs in Texas that are going to add a lot to the top line.
So I would say it's more scalability than anything plus Puerto Rico.
Okay.
And then circling back to the HIF I know you mentioned California.
Can you – I think Michigan and Utah were the other hanging chads.
What are the updates there with those states? And what's preventing them from locking up 2015 for you guys? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's just an issue of getting the appropriate documentation.
We know that both Utah and Michigan have passed in their most recent budgets dollars to fund the payments but our policy is either we get a check or we get a contract amendment.
And we haven't got the contract amendments in Utah or Michigan as of yet.
Okay.
And then just lastly on Florida can you just give us an updated view on how things are trending there and what you're expecting in the full negotiation coming up here? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the MMA product I think that Molina like a lot of the other health plans are seeing higher medical care costs than we anticipated when the program was first bid and we are active discussions with ACA and legislature to increase the rates so that things turn out for the as we expected.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question is from Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi there.
This is Christopher Benassi on behalf of Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Congrats on the quarter.
I was wondering if you wouldn't mind walking us back through the HIF reimbursement timeline I believe you mentioned it would have a $0.29 improvement to EPS.
And then following up on that do you see any potential for this HIF timeline to be reduced going forward? Sure.
So on the HIF we did not recognize any HIF revenue associated with the first quarter of 2015 for California Michigan or Utah.
That amount was $16 million or $0.20.
The balance the other $0.09 had to do with the non-recognition of the quality revenue in Texas.
Getting back to the HIF we also have $20 million still hanging from 2014 which we did not recognize in the first quarter.
We did get a check from the state of California after the quarter was over so we'll recognize that amount in the second quarter and that relates to 2014 unless we get a contract amendment or something from the state of California we will not recognize any of the HIF for 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just following up on that quickly; MCR looked strong in the quarter.
However with all the market commentary regarding utilization I was just curious if you've seen any upticks geographically or within certain subpopulations? Thank you.
We didn't see anything unusual in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
And we have a question from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Sure.
A question around the costs in particular hep C costs for the quarter.
How much of that have you gotten arranged to be passed through to your states at this point versus how much you don't have pass through or don't have agreements on? And then looking at your cost breakdown I can see that pharmacy and capitation costs as a percent of your overall costs is declining.
Is that mix related or is there anything in terms of pricing on the fee for service side that's causing that to go down? It's Joe speaking.
I don't have anything specific on hep C I will say though in most of our states that issue has either been addressed either through some kind of risk pool some kind of specific state reimbursement or an attempt to reimburse it in our rates.
So I don't think hep C had a – treatments had a material impact on the first quarter.
I think it's a matter now of just refining how states reimburse that's rather than trying to get over the concept of reimbursement.
The second point is why is pharmacy would be dropping as a percentage of total medical spend is really driven by just the long-term services and support spend that we incur.
One of the things as we shift to – we talked about shifting to more chronically ill patients or members who need home health assistance.
Obviously for someone in some sort of home and community based services setting or in nursing facilities the drug cost is going to be – while large in absolute terms is a smaller percentage of their total spend.
And is that with...
That's the issue (45:23) in a nutshell.
Okay.
And is it true with the capitation component as well? Yeah.
It's the same story.
Nothing dramatically has changed our capitation structure again it's just a lot of the costs with the LTSS are direct rather than capitated.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
And our next question is from Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
I know this is a small number in the Texas quality revenue but the amount you didn't recognize increased by $1 million year-to-year I just want to make sure there's nothing to read into that i.e.
you have even lower visibility now than you did last year or something is tracking for the worse on the quality side? Well that's a really – that's an astute question.
The numbers are very small but curiously enough the percentage of quality revenue that's tied to those measures that we don't have visibility into went from about 50% last year to 60% this year.
So I think that's what you're seeing.
Okay.
And then the cost of service ratio declined quite a bit year-to-year and came in below where we are.
Can you give us some color on what happened there? And just any – I know you give annual guidance.
But sort of quarterly this has been a tough one to predict.
Sort of any way to help us think about that would be helpful.
Thank you.
The cost of service revenue associated with MMS? You know Chris nothing leaps to mind.
Maybe we can dig into those numbers a little bit more to see what gets ferreted out.
Okay.
And then I guess the cash flow too was pretty strong.
Was there anything there notable? Thanks.
And I'll leave it at that.
No.
I mean we've been having very strong cash flow.
DCP is up.
We still – and a couple of the health plans are accruing money that we have to return to the states.
So that is helping cash flow a bit.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Chris.
And that was our final question.
And I'll now turn the call back to Dr.
Molina.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I want to thank everyone for joining us.
It was a very strong quarter.
And we're looking forward to talking to you next quarter on our next earnings release.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 30 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana SVP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Thaddeus.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare’s financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2015.
The company’s earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market close and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC’s website.
All forward-looking statements made during today’s call represent our judgment as of July 30 2015 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company’s website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us today as we report our second quarter results for 2015.
I am pleased to report that during the second quarter we maintained momentum in our business and continue to deliver great financial results.
We are growing we are diversifying and we are driving strong operating results.
Striking a balance between growth and profitability is an imperative for us.
As a result we were very pleased to deliver both revenue and enrollment growth that was nearly 50% greater than what we reported during the second quarter of 2015.
After the first two quarters of the year our net profit margin now stands at 1% and we saw a net profit expansion of 80 basis points sequentially.
My father used to say shoemaker mind I last and we have done so.
While speculation and mega deals among the commercial players have been grabbing all the headlines we have remained focused on growing our core business and we have been involved in several key acquisitions of our own.
The transactions that we have announced demonstrate our continued focus on government programs and our ability to use our expertise in providing access to healthcare to those who needed most and who are least able to afford it.
We remain focused on our mission to serve low income individuals that require government assistance.
Let me provide you with some greater details on each of these transactions.
Our transaction with Preferred Medical Plan in Florida will add about 25 000 Medicaid members to our Florida health plan doubling our Medicaid enrollment in the Miami-Dade market.
Many of our existing providers are also contracted this preferred medical plan.
Therefore this acquisition will deepen our relationships with providers.
We anticipate this transaction will add about $80 million in annual revenue.
Medicaid health plans in Florida are currently engaged in discussions with the state regarding premium rates for the next fiscal year and some increases are expected.
While premium rates in Florida have not kept pace with medical cost during the current rate year we remain optimistic about our future in Florida.
In fact we believe that this is the right time to be acquiring other health plans in this market.
After all Florida is the fourth largest Medicaid market in the country.
The acquisition of HealthPlus of Michigan is expected to add 90 000 Medicaid and 6000 CHIP members.
This will increase our enrollment in Michigan by 40% and expand our geographic footprint by adding two additional counties in the central part of the state.
We expect the transaction to add roughly $300 million in annual revenue.
With the acquisition of MyCare Chicago we are entering one of the largest Medicaid counties in the country.
Cook county alone accounts for nearly half of the state’s 3.2 million Medicaid eligibles and gives us an opportunity for future growth.
In addition to the long-term opportunity this acquisitions brings in 60 000 additional members increasing our enrollment in Illinois by 60%.
And we expect the incremental revenue from this transaction to be $190 million on an annual basis.
Combined these transactions are expected to add an additional 180 000 new members and approximately $570 million in annualized revenue.
While the impact to 2015 maybe small given the anticipated closing dates all transactions are expected to be accretive.
And when combined with our enrollment from our start up and Puerto Rico Medicaid expansion in the marketplace we will have added 900 000 members by the end of the year.
In-market acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy and highly accretive helping us to expand margins in the future.
This is because in-market acquisitions are generally asset purchases provide us with additional scale and in some instances a larger service footprint at a small marginal cost.
We have considerable experience integrating these types of transactions as we have completed more than 10 asset purchases over the past decade.
For the most part speed to integration for these types of lower risk acquisitions coupled with our existing infrastructure result in significant accretion value.
The acquisition pipeline remains robust.
Our recent equity offering and credit facility allow us to remain nimble and continue to take advantage of such opportunities as they arise.
Changing gears I want to briefly address the debt and budgetary challenges currently being faced by Puerto Rico.
Puerto Rico pays our premiums weekly and is current with their payments.
We will continue to monitor the situation there.
We would like to welcome those of you that are new to Molina and to our story.
We look forward to speaking with you about our business.
We are committed to making a difference by providing compassionate care to those receiving government assistance and most in need of our help.
We are pleased with our results so far and more broadly how they contribute to our longer term objectives.
Now I will turn the call over to John.
Thank you Mario.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today we reported net income of $0.72 per diluted share and adjusted net income per diluted share of $0.86.
We are particularly pleased that we achieved these results by growing both our top-line and our profit margins.
As Mario briefly touched upon premium revenue grew in excess of 50% compared with the second quarter of 2014 and our medical care ratio dropped by 60 basis points.
This improved medical margin performance coupled with greater administrative cost efficiency and more complete reimbursement of the Affordable Care Act’s Health Insurer Fee or HIF.
Our second quarter after tax margin grew to 1.1%.
This is the first time in our company’s 35-year history that we have reported pretax income of $100 million for a quarter.
Our second quarter results demonstrate the diversification of our business even as we remain focused on Medicaid related markets.
Medical care ratios at nine of our health plans were lower this quarter than in the second quarter of 2014.
Based on our results during the last two quarters we expect that six of our health plans will each have revenues in excess of $2 billion by the end of the year.
Pardon me will have in excess of $1 billion by the end of the year.
We also continued to make progress in securing reimbursement from the HIF.
During the second quarter we received a commitment to reimburse the fee from California leaving only Michigan and Utah among our state plan partners that have not formally committed to reimbursement of the fee.
During the second quarter we recognized all of the 2014 HIF reimbursement due from California and half of the amount due for 2015.
This amounted to $29 million but because we are still not recognizing HIF reimbursement from Michigan and Utah the net impact of the HIF reimbursement was only $12 million or $0.14 per diluted share favorable for the quarter.
But I want to emphasize the impact is actually $5 million or $0.06 per share unfavorable year-to-date.
Since we are now largely caught up on the HIF corrections we will cease reporting on this issue on a regular basis in future periods.
Regarding Texas quality revenue you will recall that since the beginning of 2014 about half of our total potential quality revenue is determined based upon performance measures for which we do not have historical information clear definition or clarity around minimum standards.
Through June of this year this portion of our potential quality revenue amounted to about $32 million $20 million for all of 2014 and $12 million for the first half of 2015.
We will continue to defer recognition of this revenue until we get greater clarity from the state of Texas.
I’ve already mentioned that our medical care ratio decreased 60 basis points in the second quarter of this year compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Our medical care ratio was unchanged from the first quarter of 2015 at 88.7%.
But if we exclude our Puerto Rico operations which was new this quarter our medical care ratio fell 40 basis points to 88.3% from the first quarter of 2015.
Our health plans generally report high MCRs in initial years’ operation and we attach no particular long term significance to Puerto Rico’s high medical care ratio this quarter.
This point of our Puerto Rico leads another matter which I want to touch upon the high degree of variability that occurs in the granular data that we provide.
We will always share details of our individual health plan performance.
Starting last quarter we disclosed our revenue and medical care ratios by product line in order to further increase transparency.
I want to repeat some things that I said on last quarter’s call.
Financial information presented with this degree of granularity is inevitably subject to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations.
Please use the detailed geographic and product line data to better understand our business tactics our market opportunities and challenges and the complexities of our business.
Use our consolidated results to understand our strategic goals and opportunities to weigh our performance over time and to form your own assessment of a long-term potential of our company.
Getting back to the results general and administrative expense ratio declined by 30 basis points when compared with the second quarter of 2014.
Days in claims payable dropped slightly from the first quarter to second quarters from 50.52 days last quarter to 49.47 this quarter a decrease of 1.05 days.
However we are up three days when compared to same period last year.
As of June 30 2015 the company had cash and investments of approximately $3.5 billion including in excess of $530 million at our parent company.
During the second quarter we issued 5.75 million shares of common stock raising more than $370 million in net proceeds.
As a result of the offering our diluted weighted average shares outstanding have increased to just over 52 million shares for the six months ending June 2015.
We expect diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 60 million for the third quarter and fourth quarters and approximately 56 million for the full year 2015.
These estimates are consistent with the revised outlook we issued June 1st.
During our road show for the secondary offering we told investors that we were exploring a large number of potential acquisitions.
As Mario discussed we have been able to sign up three of those acquisitions.
I want to remind everyone that these transactions are still going through the formal closing process and that we expect them to close during the third and fourth quarters of this year.
As such these acquisitions will have limited impact on our 2015 results.
Finally I wanted to highlight that today marks a historic milestone in our industry.
Medicaid turns 50 years old.
On July 30 1965 President Lyndon B.
Johnson signed into law the Medicaid and Medicare programs.
Over the last five decades these programs have transformed the nation’s healthcare system protecting the health and well being of millions of families.
As pay tribute to this event we feel privileged that Molina Healthcare has played an active role in the programs since our inception 35 years ago and we’re excited to continue shaping the future of the program by providing more people with access to quality healthcare.
We look forward to talking to you again during our next Investor Day in New York on September 17th.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from the line of A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hello everybody.
On the MLR for the first half so you are at 88.7 and I think your full guidance is still 89.5 can you give us some of the factors that -- a sense on seasonality in the back half of the year any other factors does that MLR number now look increasingly conservative; any color? A.J.
this is John.
What I would say is we do have some seasonality Q4 but really the medical costs are coming in line a little bit faster than we expected but I wouldn’t draw any conclusions on what that first half of the year as to the second half of the year because as we’ve talked about in the past we’re not going to update guidance unless something material changes.
Right.
And then similarly this is my follow-up on the SG&amp;A line if I look at that you’re 8.1 in the first half your outlook for the year is 7.6 so in that one you need the back half to be quite bit strong or is that mainly just leverage or is there something else that would happen that would help you on that? It’d be continued leverage but I think the thing we have to look at with respect the admin ratio is as we’ve discussed before we have profit the caps medical cost floors and those are achieved largely by reductions in revenue but in the case of a marketplace for example while we may reduce the revenue for things like risk adjustments the marketing costs the broker commissions et cetera are flat.
So as a percentage of the revenue we get from marketplace it’s higher.
But I’d say all in all both admin and medical claims are -- medical costs are coming in in a way as Mario said that makes us very pleased.
The next question is from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
I was wondering if you could walk us through some of the moving pieces in the quarter.
So as I think about MLR were there any rate updates that came through and improved things sequentially; was there any benefit from a three-R true up? And then on that SG&amp;A side was there any impact all from either the financing transactions or due-diligence for M&amp;A that impacted the quarter that wouldn’t be an ongoing cost? Okay.
Sarah this is John.
Let me see if I can take those three questions now in order.
On the MLR side there were no rate increases.
I think that the MLR is where it is because we’re doing good medical management.
On the three Rs there was no true up.
And in terms of the SG&amp;A there was no significant increase either from the offering or from M&amp;A.
Got it.
And I guess just a follow-up excluding out the one-time items.
On Texas I think you guys had talked about in the past the state providing data finally last quarter to the plans and then there was a review or appeal process.
So where does that stand now as far as closing out… It’s like the John show; I’m getting all the questions.
We actually hedged; there are two systems state provides to us to use and unfortunately the last time order from the state the two systems were in bit of a conflict.
So we have no further information other than state is rerunning the data and will get back to us as soon as they have good confirmation.
The next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Another follow-up on Texas while I’m thinking about it.
The 32 million that you highlight remind us again are you cash flowed that money or is that just money you are owed at some point in time.
And secondly in terms of the process I guess you have some peers in the state that have recognized the fair amount of their share.
So should we take that as being -- maybe the probability is a bit higher that you will eventually recognize those dollars in the near future? To your first question that’s not a cash flow issue for us.
The state if they were to take money back would have to take money back from us if we miss the measure.
So it’s not a cash flow issue.
To the second point obviously we don’t know what are peers are doing in the state but from our perspective the quality measures break into two broad categories about half of them we have which are HEDIS based measures we have good insight to and we’ve been recognizing revenue associated with those measures.
It’s just these other measures that we don’t have insight to that we’re not recognizing revenue.
So for us it splits out about 50-50 of the potential.
I don’t know what our peers are doing obviously.
So on the 32 million half of that you’ve recognized or half you could you have better visibility on? That 32 million is what is unrecognized.
So if you take the potential it would have been around 64 million.
We’ve recognized 32 and there is another 32 out there.
And then just for clarification the health insurer fee items those are all contemplated as part of your outlook this year.
Correct? That’s correct.
The next question comes from the line of Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
This is Cornelia in for Andy.
I guess just focusing on Florida for a second the MLR fell more than 600 basis points quarter-to-quarter.
Was that all driven by your marketplace numbers or did you see any improvement in MMA as well? No it’s marketplace.
This is John.
And then can you just remind us what you’ve included in guidance for a rate increase in Florida? In January we’re expecting 3%.
Okay.
And then just following up on the marketplace MLR obviously down significantly to 55.4%.
It sounds like that’s not related to any three R true-ups; is there anything else going on in the quarter that we should be thinking about? I mean all these Florida members are super profitable or… In general we’ve been seeing very good experience on the marketplace.
As far as three R true-ups we’re helped in a few of our states because of credibility of factors where we’re not having to accrue MLR get backs.
But we’ve actually got a nice table on the three Rs at the very end of our 10Q where you can see how we’re positioned for 2015.
I think in general though it’s fair to say that pretty much across the board the marketplaces have come in very well for us this year.
The next question is from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
This is Mary Shang in for Josh this afternoon.
So you clearly saw some significant initial enrollment in Puerto Rico.
Was this enrollment that you saw in line with your expectations and could you may be provide some more color on the cost trends of these members so far? The enrollment is right where we expected to be.
Remember in Puerto Rico we are serving two regions and we are the only health plan in those two regions.
So if you are on Medicaid in either of those regions you are a member of Molina.
In terms of cost trends just a little early to say anything; we’ve got three months worth of experience.
So when we have more to report at the end of the third quarter and certainly going into the fourth quarter.
You’ve been active with your recent acquisitions in Florida Illinois Michigan.
Could you just provide some more color around what the future pipeline looks for you? I know you mentioned Florida health plans in your prepared remarks.
Sure.
We are seeing smaller health plans just like the three that we talked about today provider sponsored plans that realize they want to focus on being providers for us and not being in health plan business.
And as we’ve discussed in the past we’re also looking at companies that can help broaden our service capabilities.
The next question is from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
The marketplace MLR is so low 70% or so for the first six months.
Do you think that that is something that’s going to trigger the medical loss ratio minimums in that category or is that being accounted for correctly already? Peter in some states it will as Joe mentioned in some states there is credibility factors which have a different effect.
But we’re confident that we are accruing everything correctly for the marketplace.
So we shouldn’t expect that to go higher going forward as you see the performance continue be good if you will.
I think as we leave the protection if you will the credibility factors as the plans get bigger we could obviously see higher MCRs.
And then sort of on the same MLR line but different business the California MLR continues trend a little bit worse.
I know you have a lot of improvement in almost every other state but just focusing on California where it did deteriorate again do you expect that to continue to deteriorate or do you think that can start to improve from here? This is John.
I think it will start to improve.
And do you want to give any color on why? I was waiting for you to ask me that question.
We are seeing more of our members go into our own delivery system.
We’ve seen -- that has at least two effects.
We do know that in our own clinics we tend to get patients with more chronic illnesses so until we get the risk scores and everything turned around there I think that we’ll see a little bit higher MCR we also have some hospital contracts that we’re in the process of renegotiating which are a bit higher than we like them to be.
So can you give us a timeframe on when some of that stuff will start to hit? Probably early next year.
The next question is from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
If I take your year-to-date performance and then tack on the say the net benefit from the HIF that you haven’t collected in the first six months and from everything you’ve said so far it doesn’t sound like there is significant negative seasonality in the back half.
So if I kind of annualize your number you are running pretty significantly above your 235 guidance.
I know to A.J.’s question you kind of mentioned materiality.
Is it still not material enough to make a change on guidance? This is Mario.
We said at the beginning of the year that we were going to provide annual guidance unless there was a material change.
Earlier this year when we did the stock offering we did update the guidance because of the change in the share count.
But at this point we are going to stick by our policy of providing annual guidance.
The number is what it is.
The performance is running better than what we had forecast.
Alright so moving on then a couple of maybe organic opportunities in Iowa where I think you are bidding and then Michigan where you’re going to close an acquisition and there is opportunity there or re-procurement there.
I’m wondering what your views are on opportunity to win and/or defend position as the case maybe? This is Mario.
We obviously feel pretty good about Michigan.
As far as Iowa goes I wouldn’t care to speculate at this point.
We submitted what we think was a good response and we will just have to see how the scoring and the awards come out.
The next question is from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is actually Steve Baxter on for Kevin.
I just want to clarify the HIF commentary just to put a fine point on it.
The $0.14 when you flagged that in the press release that’s the amount of revenue you recognized not related to the second quarter of 2015.
So if we were trying to think of a run rate $0.14 is the right number to adjust? That’s correct.
And I guess I’d love to get a little bit of an update on the duals population.
I know you caution against too much quarter-to-quarter MLR comparisons but it looks like the MLR jumped up a little bit there.
I guess any color on that would be great.
And I guess just ongoing dialogue with the states to kind of improve the sustainability of that program would be of interest as well.
With regard to the MMP contracts I think the results right now are lumpy and that’s for a couple of reasons.
First of all we’re getting a lot of new enrollment and the numbers are still small.
So until things stabilize I think you will see fluctuations.
The other thing is that depending on the state in some cases our medical costs are higher than anticipated on the Medicare side whereas in other states the costs have come in a little higher than anticipated on the Medicaid or the LTSS services.
And some of that is a function of our experience with those services.
But I think that as John pointed out I wouldn’t read too much into it at this point.
The numbers are small things are still in flux.
And it’s going to be a while before everything I think settles out.
Generally speaking it takes nine months to a year for things to kind of stabilize.
So don’t read too much into the quarter-to-quarter numbers.
I guess just one question on the exchanges.
It seems like you have a significant amount of room to re-price that business to kind of get to a margin that might be a little more sustainable and won’t really put you up against all the three R corridors.
Can you talk about what your expectations are for growth around that program over the next couple of years and how that might impact your government comp tax susceptibility? We don’t anticipate being able to adopt the executive comp starting next year because the marketplace has been successful for us.
We like the product and are going to continue to try and grow it the way we did in 2015.
I guess that just begs the question then on do you have a sense of what the adjustment would look like to your tax rate? I think it was around 40 bps but obviously our tax rate has been in such flux lately that I’m not sure you can really adjust that very easily.
But I believe it was around 40 bps when we talked about it last year.
The next question is from the line of Ana Gupte with Leerink.
Please go ahead.
Just following up again on the marketplace why is it that you are doing so well? I’m just curious why is it that your margins are so good? And it seems like for Medicaid players in general as compared to players like Humana which generally in the same states as well not just in California seem to be in trouble.
Is it because you are contracting on Medicaid networks whereas they are not or I’m just curious what’s going on? It’s difficult question for us to answer.
What I can say is that our strategy was to offer products that would be attractive to people who are at the lower end of the FPL so maybe upto about 250% of poverty and that we wanted to build this as an extension of Medicaid.
So that people who were coming off of Medicaid the so called churn would be able to stay with their health plans stay with their doctor.
That’s how we’ve designed the products.
I can’t tell you why there is a difference between us and some of the other health plans.
But we had a strategy.
I also think that we were conservative going in and that’s allowed us to lower our rats a little bit in the second year.
So far our strategy is holding.
We’ll see what it does in the third year.
So it’s partly maybe not just the networks but you’re targeting a certain segment of that subsidized population it sounds like.
And just following up on that when I look at the 2016 proposed rates and I expect you all are still in the negotiating phase of the HIF marketplaces.
You are filing for something on average that looks like a rate reduction probably and I may not have all the states and all but somewhere in the 8ish percent range.
And is that to kind of get to the more normalized sustainable state or am I missing some data somewhere? The ability to have affordable products for the population that Mario talked about is very important and core to the mission of the company.
So our ability to lower the price going into next year was very important and with the balance being able to lower our costs for our members and making sure that we have the right margin on the business.
I don’t know if it was 8% across the board or what but it was our goal to balance those two items.
The next question is from the line of Brian Wright with Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
Two real quick ones.
On the California PMPM I just would have thought that with the health insurance fee accrual this quarter it would’ve been a bit higher because I mean even with that it’s down year-over-year so is there anything one-timeish in the revenue that’s driving that? Brian I don’t know if it’s one-timeish but remember last year there was the PCP parity and then also we had some retroactive adjustments to our MMP rates in California sort of normal course reconciliation that hit this quarter.
Brian also if you’re looking at the revenue in the detail we exclude the HIF from that.
And then lastly it looks like CMS is allowing the states to have the option to extend the duals pilots another two years.
I was just curious if you had spoken to California and kind of gotten their lenience on that option.
We haven’t started to engage with the state obviously.
We put a lot of effort into the MMP programs across all the states and so we like to see the programs continue.
But we’re not going to speak for the state Medicaid agencies.
And let me just add this is Mario.
I think that it’s really appropriate to extend these pilots because the truth of the matter is some of them got started late and three years is a very short time to really analyze the effectiveness.
By the time you get all the data and then try to analyze it you’re talking about probably two to three years anyway.
So I think the three year timeframe was pretty short to do a really good analysis of the value of these new MMP programs.
It makes sense to extend them.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Congrats on another great quarter.
This is Christopher Benassi on for Matthew Borsch.
With all the industry consolidation that has been occurring could you touch on where Molina sits within the managed care ecosystem and how you are strategically positioned? And just following that up do think the push for scale has been overemphasized? This is Mario.
Let me take a minute on that.
I think that the way things are settling out Molina is turning out to be the purest of the pure plays that we are really focused on our mission which is to serve low income patients who receive some form of government assistance with their healthcare premiums.
As you can see from the acquisitions that we have done we continue to grow; we’re going to add 900 000 members this year.
We have a lot of opportunity in front of us in Medicaid and especially when it comes to programs like the duals and the long-term care services.
So there is plenty of room for us to grow lots of accretive opportunities in front us and that’s I think where we sit in the sort of managed care ecosystem.
And just to dovetail off that would you maybe be willing to touch on any areas you’d be interested in expanding into geographically and how do you think you’ll be positioned for any divestitures in the upcoming consolidation -- in the upcoming wave of consolidation? Clearly we’re interested in Georgia and Iowa.
We remain interested in states that have significant managed care opportunities in Medicaid.
We are looking at companies for acquisitions that might give us capabilities that we don’t currently have.
And as far as divestures go the fact that we have the equity offering behind us now and the line of credit we’re well poised to take advantage and move quickly in opportunities that they may arise.
And I guess one more quick follow-up as well.
Where would you feel comfortable with your debt to cap? You screen towards the bottom end of our coverage and you have a great balance sheet so just kind of curious around that.
I think that after the equity offering we’re pretty happy with where we are right now.
The next question is from the line of Gary Taylor with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I actually just have one small clarification from a question earlier.
Did I hear correctly that you said the sequential year-over-year improvement in the Florida medical loss ratio was mostly due to the performance of marketplace plans is that correct? That’s correct Gary.
The next question is from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please go ahead.
Mario just a follow-up on what you said a few minutes ago about potentially buying capabilities that you don’t have.
Does that theoretically mean if some Medicare Advantage assets came up for sale you guys would take a look? I think that we would be willing to take a look at Medicare Advantage assets sure.
We’d be looking at Medicare Medicaid other companies that could fill in parts of our business portfolio in the area of long-term care services; there is a variety of things.
We wouldn’t necessarily shy away from Medicare Advantage.
This is really just a follow-up on at least two questions that have been asked with regard to guidance.
I guess when I look at the year-to-date MCR and the year-to-date G&amp;A then look back where you’re at guidance wise is it just conservatism in the outlook or are you actually indeed looking for a big step down on an absolute basis of G&amp;A and the MCR to bump in a very meaningful way in the last half of the year? I would say that we tend to be conservative if you look at the way we’ve handle things like the Texas pay for performance revenue and some of these other things we tend to be on the conservative side and we would rather be that way; same thing with the health insurance fees.
We think that health insurance tax will ultimately all be paid and we’ve assumed that in our guidance but we haven’t recognized all of it yet.
So we tend to be conservative.
Got it.
And I appreciate that but on the MCR in particular is there anything that we should know about that actually is going to drive that meaningfully higher in the back half of the year or we should just take the conservative commentary on its face? There are no events that we’re aware of right now that I think will drive the MCR higher.
John did mention there is some seasonality.
We typically see higher medical costs in the fourth and first quarters of the year.
But aside from that no.
We continue to work on the MMP and the Medicare costs but nothing out of the ordinary.
The next question is follow up from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Just a few others here just to think about.
So on Texas the $32 million how do you expect that to hit the bottom-line should it come into play? Is this just a tax adjustment and the rest of it falls right to the bottom line and is it around $0.30 a share? Is that what you think about? Whatever comes in would be a direct increase to pretax income.
So there is no offset in terms of expenses or anything.
And then secondly somewhat conceptual; in Utah and Michigan the Affordable Care Act rolled out 18 months ago we’ve had visibility on this thing now for what five years.
I can’t believe it’s been that long.
What do you think the holdup is in these two markets; are these guys just stringing you along for another few months and then eventually it’s going to hit or maybe give us some sense of what you think these markets are -- what are they thinking? I don’t think that either state is intentionally staying there so long.
In both Michigan and Utah the dollars have been passed through the budget by the legislatures.
But in fairness there is a lot of stuff going on in both of those states.
Michigan is putting out a new RFP; Utah is taking about expansion of Medicaid.
And what we’re waiting for is the contractual language the contracts amendment to solidify that.
So we are very comfortable that the both states intend to pay us in the future and we’re being patient.
And that’s why again it’s becoming a smaller and smaller issue.
So we’re happy not to talk about it anymore.
Tom is the question about the health insurance fee or Medicaid expansion? The health insurance fee the fee side of things.
Okay.
I misunderstood.
Thanks.
John I won’t ask you about it anymore.
And then lastly on your acquisitions I think you said they were going to be accretive but where do you expect these to operate in 2016? Are these operating in line with your broader organization in terms operating margin or is there going to be some further ramp in year one where you’ve got to get in there with the Molina secret sauce and get it going? Since these are in-market or “bolt-on acquisitions” they tend to perform slightly better than company average but we’ll get into the accretion numbers etcetera in 2016 at our normal Investor Day A.
Great.
Thank you very much.
That’s what I was looking for.
Okay.
Gentlemen there are no other questions left in the queue.
I’ll turn it back to you.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you.
Well everyone we hope that you will have a good summer what’s left of it and look forward to seeing you again at the Investor Day in New York in September.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentleman thank you for standing-by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded Thursday October 29 2015.
I would now turn the conference call over to Juan José Orellana Senior Vice-President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Marketing</strong> Thank you Jorge.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2015.
The Company's earnings release reporting its results was issued today after the market closed and is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our CEO; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Financial Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions.
Our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of October 29 2015 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by the securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available at our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Juan José and thanks everyone for joining us on the call today as we review our financial results and key accomplishments for the quarter.
As outlined in today's earnings release we continued to grow enrollment and revenue when compared to last year and last quarter.
We're making progress on our long-term margin improvement efforts.
In addition we remain watchful of new business opportunities.
For example over the last three quarters we've announced six transactions.
These acquisitions have afforded us new avenues to expand our current health plan business and add capabilities to our service offering.
Since we covered a considerable amount of information at our last Investor Day in New York just last month today I will primarily highlight a few recent developments and discuss some of the things that have changed since our presentation in September.
John will address our quarterly financials in greater detail during his remarks.
For now all I have to say is that those results are very good indeed.
As of this September nearly 18 million people have gained health insurance by signing up for Medicaid or the marketplace as a result of the Affordable Care Act.
The uninsured rate has fallen from a high of 18% to nearly 11% the lowest uninsured rate in 50 years.
And we at Molina Healthcare are doing our part to ensure that everyone has access to care.
Our enrollment has grown by approximately 1.5 million members to 3.5 million since January of 2014.
Today we serve more than 0.5 million Medicaid expansion members and over 200 000 low-income marketplace members.
But our contribution to healthcare goes beyond the numbers of members we serve.
Our most important contribution lies in our commitment to providing access to quality healthcare for our members.
To that end we have set about expanding and deepening the care capabilities that we bring to our members.
We are focusing on quality outcomes care integration and measurable results.
During our Investor Day we talked at great length about our acquisition of Providence Human Services.
You will recall that Providence is one of the nation's largest providers of behavioral and mental health services with 6 800 employees more than 80% of which are client facing and operations in 23 states and the District of Columbia.
The company's broad national footprint is deployed by a local level enabling it to effectively target specific needs in diverse geographies.
As states continue to look for cost effective strategies to manage the care of individuals with more complex healthcare and behavioral needs we will continue to see more states move towards the integration of behavioral health and medical services.
We're excited about the opportunity to pursue these initiatives with our new capability.
And we look forward to bringing the skills enthusiasm commitment and expertise of the Providence team to our members.
In the meantime we remain focused on closing this transaction in the near future.
Given our recent acquisition activity I wanted to remind everyone of our approach to M&amp;A.
In general our acquisition strategy falls into three categories.
New markets existing markets and new capabilities.
When we target a new market our goal is to continue to diversify our geographic footprint by increasing the number of state contracts that we hold.
Over the long-term this allows us to leverage our administrative infrastructure across a broader revenue base and drive down cost.
In an existing market our goal is to strengthen our competitive position and market share by pursuing bolt on acquisitions.
These types of transitions typically see higher accretion levels and given our established infrastructure in these markets enable us to drive short-term administrative leverage and create long-term value.
When evaluating a new capability or the enhancement of an existing capability or provider arrangement our strategy is to strengthen provider alignment to ensure our goals align with our providers goals improving medical costs over time.
Our pipeline remains robust and we have continued to execute on our acquisition strategy.
Integral Health Plan in Florida is a 90 000 member Medicaid plan operating in the Pensacola Tampa Sarasota and Fort Myers regions.
This acquisition further expands our Medicaid footprint to seven of the 11 Medicaid regions across the state.
We expect the Integral acquisition to generate approximately $250 million in annualized revenue and that the transaction will close later this year.
In Illinois Loyola Physician Partners serves as a medical home for approximately 20 000 members in Cook County.
This acquisition further expands our Chicago area footprint complementing our recently announced acquisition of MyCare in July.
Loyola is expected to generate approximately $50 million in revenue on an annualized basis and we anticipate that this transaction will close in the first quarter of 2016.
As I mentioned before the integration process for in market acquisitions benefits from our existing infrastructure and local presence.
Because of this the process requires minimal resources at the corporate level and allows for a significant portion to be completed locally.
Our record number of acquisitions this year while significant has not diminished our focus on retaining existing business.
In Michigan for example we currently provide services in 50 counties where approximately 1.3 million individuals eligible for Medicaid receive care.
Our current enrollment which includes members from the HealthPlus acquisition is about 340 000 members across multiple lines of business.
Earlier this month the State of Michigan announced its health plan recommendations for their Medicaid program to begin January 2016.
And we are pleased to announced that Molina Healthcare of Michigan was recommended for eight regions covering 65 counties.
Our dual eligible programs continue to drive up membership and premium revenue quarter-over-quarter with the majority of our states completing the passive enrollment process.
Texas will complete passive enrollment this month while South Carolina is still purely voluntary with a passive enrollment date now set for April 1.
As we near the end of the passive enrollment phase in these programs it is important to understand that our focus shifts from enrolling new members to member retention.
Last I want to congratulate our New Mexico Plan President Patty Kehoe and the staff of our New Mexico Health Plan for being recognized at the Pinion Level by Quality New Mexico as part of its New Mexico Performance Excellence Awards.
The award recognizes organizations that show evidence of using systemic processes as a foundation to attain improved overall outcomes.
That concludes my commentary about the quarter.
We continue to experience an exciting and extended period of growth.
We continue to be well-positioned for the future and I look forward to what that will bring.
With that I will now turn the call over to John for a look at our financial performance in the quarter.
As Mario noted from a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter for Molina Healthcare.
Net income per diluted share more than doubled to $0.77 this quarter compared to $0.33 in the third quarter of 2014.
For the year to date net income per diluted share is $2.07 compared to approximately $0.60 for the same period last year.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter increased to $0.89 per diluted share compared to just $0.48 during the same quarter a year ago.
Before I get into the details of the quarter I want to point out a couple of the most important takeaways from our progress for the first three quarters of 2015.
First top line revenue remains strong.
Total revenue reached $10.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30 2015.
This is the second year in a row in which we have recorded more revenue year-to-date through September than during the entire previous year.
Second we continue to expand our margins.
Our net profit margin for the last six months was 1.1% a 70 basis point improvement over the last year.
Our margin improvement over last year has been driven by three key factors higher revenue improved medical cost efficiencies and full reimbursement of the Affordable Care Act Health Insurance Fee.
As is usually the case there are some moving parts in the numbers when looked at on a quarterly basis so let me tell you how those parts fit together.
First we have now recognized all revenue related to Medicaid Health Insurance Fee Reimbursement from January 2014 through September 2015.
Our final HIF catch up this quarter added approximately $25 million to pre-tax income for the quarters $8 million of which related to 2014.
This amount was offset by $25 million in reduced revenue related to 2014 for medical cost corridors and profit limitations.
The reduction in revenue related to 2014 is the result of the challenges posed by cost floors and profit limitations that are built around vague ambiguous and poorly defined contract terms.
We have several other costs floors and profit limitations to settle so I don't want to imply that this issue is behind us.
But we have started the process and with time will come more clarity.
The important point to note is that these two items offset each other.
Next our medical care ratio continues to improve year-over-year as we reported an 88.9% medical care ratio for the last nine months compared to 89.6% in the same period last year.
Absent the $25 million reduction related to the 2014 cost floor true-ups which I just mentioned our third quarter medical care ratio would have been consistent with the first two quarters of this year.
Our MMP plans or Medicare Medicaid Plan in particular on a quarter-over-quarter basis saw significant improvement.
We continued to benefit from administrative cost leverage but you need to look a little bit deeper into the numbers to see it.
If we ignore significant marketplace broker and exchange fees which weren't present last year our G&amp;A ratio was 7.4% for the third quarter of 2015.
It is 7.5% year-to-date.
As a reminder we do not provide quarterly guidance and do not change guidance unless there is a material change in our business.
Therefore we're not going to adjust the year-to-date guidance that we've previously given and you should take nothing regarding our operations from that.
Our results demonstrate that we continue to make progress towards achieving our 2017 margin goals that we have set for ourselves.
I want to mention that while we're not providing specific guidance for 2016 on this call I want to make a few general comments regarding the marketplace.
First open enrollment period for 2016 is slated to start this upcoming Sunday November 1.
Our premium levels are competitive headed into the enrollment window and we believe the marketplace will continue to be profitable in 2016.
Second I want to point out that the drop in marketplace enrollment that we saw between the second quarters and third quarters of this year is due to general attrition.
Unlike enrollment in Medicaid marketplace membership does not grow or replenish throughout the year.
Mario touched on our acquisitions earlier so let me just add that three health plan acquisitions remain open and are anticipated to close in the fourth quarter of 2015 or in early 2016.
Combined these account for roughly 180 000 new members or $300 million in new top-line revenue from health plan operations on an annual basis.
Days in claims payable was flat sequentially and the company had cash and investments in excess of $3.7 billion including approximately $470 million at the parent.
As we discussed during Investor Day we anticipate cash outflows will accelerate in the fourth quarter as we begin to pay for acquisitions that have closed and disperse accrued dollars related to Medicaid expansion corridors.
Finally at our Investor Day in February 2013 we set our goal to double the size of the company from $6 billion in revenue to a run rate of $12 billion in revenue by the end of 2015.
I'm pleased to report that as of the end of the third quarter we remain forced to exceed that goal.
We have achieved this by continuing to emphasize providing access to high-quality care by operating in the right states pursuing the right programs building the right provider networks and hiring the best employees.
This past year we began shifting our focus towards expanding our margins.
And as you can see from our results we're getting some traction on that front for which we are pleased.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready to take questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Please to ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
My first question is on the rate outlook as you head into next year and I'm asking partly in the context of another large competitor or company in the industry that talked to seeing or potentially seeing some adverse impact going into next year.
Can you just talk about where you stand relative to rate resets? Sure Matt.
We did get a rate adjustment in Florida that's effective September 1 that I believe is about a gross 7% increase but there are some provider passes et cetera.
So it'll end up being somewhere in the neighborhood of 5% 5.5%.
I believe that's the only one that we have now that's sort of lock downed.
And what are you anticipating for some of your other geographies.
I mean I guess the question I'm asking is is this an environment where Medicaid plans have generally been doing well and you find some of your states are in a mode where they're contemplating rate increases that might be tougher? Matt if you look back over the last several years the success of plans like Molina increasing our profitability is due more to our own operations than has been to increases in rates.
We've been experiencing flat to low single-digit rates for the past several years.
So I don't know that we're going to be expecting decreases or anything of that nature.
We will see some or likely to see some with respect to the Medicaid expansion rates because we are accruing money to give back under those programs.
Okay.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Matt this is Mario.
If you go back to our Investor Day I think there was a nice table where we went through our expectations around rate increases.
And there's really not been much changed since that Investor Day presentation.
Okay.
Good fair enough.
If I could just on the -- on the cost and rebate floors that you referred to is the -- the $25 million there that was offset by recruitment of the Health Insurer Fee.
Is that that was something that you were not in a position to recognize last year because you just couldn't know or didn't have a good basis for knowing how it was going to come out? That's correct.
Okay.
Got it.
We had money accrued but this was above and beyond that.
Got it.
And do you feel that you are closer to understanding what the methodology is at least that you'd be in a better position to predict it going forward? As long as they don't change the methodology I think we're in good shape.
Okay.
Fair enough.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi everybody.
Maybe just following up make sure I understand the $25 million adjustment.
Is -- when you guys laid out your guidance for this year should we think that that was in there or it was just such an unknown that you did not have that in your guidance? Now A.J.
a big portion of that came from New Mexico and Washington.
Washington was a change in the risk adjustment methodology.
So we had no visibility to it when we put in our guidance numbers.
And in New Mexico it related to the retroactive adjustments that they made with respect to a certain population that came in I guess retroactively.
Okay.
And is it I know you said you think you're getting your arms around all the 2014 exposure.
Are there open ended issues with respect to what's happening in 2015 that might be like this either for the fourth quarter or next year? There are potentially because some of the methodologies are not articulated very clearly in the state contract.
So there is some interpretation of medical costs and such.
We believe that in the discussions we have with the states that are impacted there was a good dialogue with the state regulators and we would hope that there wouldn't be much impact either way.
Okay.
And just I know you don't update full year outlook unless there is a material change but I guess the $25 million which wasn't contemplated would seem to me to be meaningful.
You're not updating guidance in any way for that.
So does that imply that the rest of the business is effectively – you're raising your outlook for the rest of the business to offset that is that the way we should – because I think you did say you always had contemplated collecting the Health Insurance Fee albeit you didn't know what quarter it was going to come in.
Again I hate to isolate one factor and say that is the only thing that's material.
We have a number of acquisitions that are coming in in the fourth quarter that we didn't contemplate at the beginning of the year that certainly will have an impact on earnings.
And to try and pinpoint just for the sake of a single quarter doesn't make a lot of sense.
I would say that from a revenue and profit margin perspective we are at a place that is a little bit further than what we thought but it doesn't make sense since what we're really driving to is a sustainable profit margin in 2017 to really monkey around with the numbers for one quarter.
Okay.
And maybe just one last data point question there.
I guess you picked up 65 000 in Medicaid expansion lives during the quarter.
I guess it's – it seems to be late in the year to be seeing more Medicaid expansion unless you're in – there's somehow a new market or is this acquisitions that are doing that? How did you end up picking up 65 000 new Medicaid expansion lives? It is for the most part the acquisitions.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I hate to harp on this $25 million issue but just want to make sure I understand.
Obviously they've changed the methodology with which they're looking back at 2014.
Is that now contemplated in your thoughts for 2015 as well? Or have you sort of recalibrated based on what the states are telling you in terms of floor definitions et cetera? We think Josh that we've got it pretty well ironed out now.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But did you have – I guess my question is did you have any catch-up accruals in the third quarter to account for the fact that if they applied the same methodology for argument's sake that maybe you'd owe more money back to the states as well? Josh it's Joe speaking.
Very insignificant because if you think of it the bulk of this activity happened in 2014.
So there were some adjustments but they were relatively insignificant relating to 2015 a few million dollars.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But you know what I mean Joe where I say if they are assuming whatever they are defining these costs to be or the premium calculation I would assume if you guys were owing money – if you guys owed money last year maybe you'd owe it again this year.
But it doesn't sound like you've made any extra accruals for this year this all relates to the prior year? No Josh to be clear we true up all accruals through the report date based on our knowledge as of that date.
So we have adjusted those numbers.
It's just that the impact on 2015 wasn't particularly severe.
So for example if you think of New Mexico most of the retroactivity happened in 2014.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So that was a specific cohort.
I got you.
Got you.
Okay.
And then just on Puerto Rico the MLR moved down from say 95% I assume that was just sort of a target accrual number to just below 90%.
I guess I am curious how operations are going there and are you guys now accruing based on claims or just better estimates in terms of your targets? I'm just curious why the MLR came down there.
Josh it's Joe speaking.
We are moving towards reliance on claims but oftentimes in the initial months of a startup we generally tend to run higher MCRs so what you're seeing now is we're moving closer to what we expect that to run.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So a 90%-ish number is what you would expect in the future or you think it comes down from there? I wouldn't think it would drop much more below 90%.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
So clearly no claims trends or anything that are unusual or out of the ordinary that you didn't expect? That's correct.
So far it appears to be what we expected it to be.
If you look back to Mario mentioned our guidance presentation at the beginning of the year we thought it would come in around 91%.
So it's pretty much coming in where we thought it would.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Anything else Josh? Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the question.
Question sort of relates to the guidance and then sort of known items in the fourth quarter I like to break it down by business instead of by state.
If you look at your original guidance for the year on a GAAP basis it was $2.35.
After nine months you're at $2.07 so that leaves sort of $0.28 for the fourth quarter.
And I want to be clear that you're not actually reiterating the $2.35 you're just not updating that.
So it's not necessarily $0.28 that you're telling us to get to for the fourth quarter.
And then the remainder of the question is are there known items to you now going into the fourth quarter that are going to go up either in the Medicaid expansion business and you've been running at a very low MLR there.
You said you've been accruing for the various updates but is there something that's going to make that go up that loss ratio go up in the fourth quarter? The same question regarding the medical – the marketplace business where you're at sort of 70% loss ratio.
Do you expect that to go higher in the fourth quarter? And then third your acquisitions.
Overall do you expect them to be accretive or dilutive going into the fourth quarter? So Pete that's a lot of great questions there so let me see if I can parse it out.
I'm going to start with the three business lines questions first and then get to guidance.
With respect to the Medicaid expansion you have to remember that the GAAP definition for Medical Care Ratio is different than what the states are using and the states frankly are using different requirements or different components depending on the state.
But we don't expect other than normal seasonality that that should increase materially.
With the marketplace I would say the same thing.
We did see some deterioration in the enrollment.
It may be that folks didn't pay their premium and some were dropped off and it's most likely that the folks who didn't pay their premiums were not using – utilizing a lot of services anyway.
So there may be a bit of a mix shift there.
But again I don't think it's going to mean anything material.
The third question was acquisitions.
We did close a couple of acquisitions in this quarter the HealthPlus acquisition and the Integral acquisition.
Pardon me and the smaller one in Florida Integral will close in the fourth quarter Preferred was closed in the current quarter.
We do tend to see pent-up demand early on with these types of acquisitions.
I think we've talked about that ad nauseum before so that you may see something.
But then we'll also get some possibly towards of the end of the fourth quarter some of the normalization from the acquisitions that closed in the third quarter.
So again I don't know that that's going to be a significant impact.
With respect to guidance I think the way you characterize it is correct.
We're not updating guidance on the other hand we're not confirming that low number.
It is -- the number is going to be what it is after we have the medical costs and the admin costs running through there.
You will see an increase in the admin costs related to what we're doing in terms of the marketplace in Medicare enrollment.
You may see a little bit higher medical cost because it is the fourth quarter but nothing that I would is say is extraordinary.
Thank you.
That was helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hello this is Steve Baxter filling in for Kevin.
Sorry to come back to the $25 million again does that all relate to the TANF businesses in Washington and New Mexico or is there any of that spread out in ABD? It's Joe speaking.
It's about $20 million or so related mainly to TANF in New Mexico and the rest to expansion in Washington.
Okay thanks.
So I guess if I am looking at the sequential TANF CHIP MLR it was up about 300 basis points in rough math I guess we'd probably explain about half of that.
I guess is there anything else you want to highlight there in terms of kind of pressure you saw in the quarter or is that just reading too much into it? I think we'd say that's reading too much into it it's a single quarter.
I wouldn't – I wouldn't read beyond John's remarks about rates at the beginning of the call.
Okay.
And then I guess the sequential movement in the marketplace MLR.
I think it was in the mid-50s in the second quarter now moving into the mid-70s.
Is that the progression that you would expect? I guess it's hard for us to totally understand how that business is running I think you guys are the only ones who disclose it is that correct? Yeah we don't have enough history with this large of a population to draw any conclusions definitively at this time.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think with that said we can say that year-to-date number it's pretty solid.
Okay.
Thank you.
Focus on the year-to-date not the quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
This is Cornelia in for Andy.
So some of your large cap peers have discussed competitive pricing on the exchanges and some potential for enrollment declines next year.
Do you think you can grow your presence meaningfully on the exchanges and do you have any expectations to pick-up lives from some of the co-ops closing? This is John.
I don't know if we have too many of the co-ops closing in the states that we are doing the marketplace.
We priced our products at a point we thought they would be competitive and yet remain profitable and I would also want to make sure that people understand it's not just the premium it's also things like co-pays deductibles et cetera that really roll into what a competitive financial package is.
But we think we're well positioned for the marketplace going into next year.
Okay.
And then just in Florida it looks like your MLR increased almost 600 basis points quarter-to-quarter.
Is it possible to breakout what that was driven by (33:45) long-term care versus the exchanges or should we be thinking about the majority of that was the increase from the 55% to 73% in the exchange MLR? Yeah.
It's Joe speaking you have it at the end it's a trend in marketplace.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good evening.
First question is about the RFPs.
You obviously won in Michigan Georgia and Iowa were not successful.
So as you look at the wins and the criteria are there any learnings from what might have made things different? And what the criteria that are being used right by largely just incumbents versus new entrants? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well this is Mario.
I think the clearly incumbents in a state like Georgia have an advantage.
You're operating there you've got your networks in place you're well known both to the state and to the providers.
So that clearly played into it.
I don't want to comment on Iowa.
We are happy with the results in Michigan.
I wouldn't read a whole lot into it they were three RFPs in three different states with a lot of different criteria.
So it's hard to draw conclusions across them And as you bought the behavioral piece in Providence and other capabilities you're building it seems to be the services.
And you look at the upcoming pipeline of RFPs can you comment on what those might look like and I believe Virginia comes out maybe in the next year and Pennsylvania is out there Nebraska and so on.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we didn't do the acquisition because of the RFPs.
We did it because we believe there is an overall trend in the Medicaid program to integrate and coordinate behavioral health with the medical benefits and that's a long-term trend.
At the same time in many states where we're being asked to manage those benefits we felt that it was prudent for us to have a stronger presence in the behavioral health area and also to have providers that we can draw on.
So Providence is largely a provider organization providing care to Medicaid beneficiaries.
It matches very well with our business and our strategy.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
One more if I may on the G&amp;A.
Where do you think this will settle out here? You have some pressure here with some drivers for that.
What is just the target right now on the normalized G&amp;A and then on the loss ratio as well with the 89.3%.
So is it still at the 2% net margin that we should be kind of thinking about and what the timing of that margin might be? Can you give us some color? Ana we haven't changed our thinking in terms of where we want to be in 2017.
Okay.
Great.
And then one final one if I might.
On exchanges you say you're positioned well obviously we're hearing a lot of angst from others.
You had 200 000 (37:03) losses this quarter but it's sort of 200 000 plus.
Any thoughts on what you might expect to see in the open enrollment season that is starting a couple of days from now? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well this is Mario we have not provided any guidance on what we think our 2016 marketplace is going to look like.
It's really hard to tell.
We have put together what we think are competitive rates.
We remain in operations in all the states where we had operations last year.
We have slightly expanded our footprint by adding a few new counties.
But remember too that the primary goal of our entering into the marketplace was to provide continuity of care for people that had been on Medicaid and may be no longer qualified and had become uninsured as a result.
And that continues to be the strategy.
If you look at our marketplace enrollment it is largely people below 250% of poverty.
Yeah.
That makes a ton of sense.
Yeah thanks Mario.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Wright with Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
Is there a way or do you have any guess or sense as to kind of what the buckets of attrition for the public marketplace is between tax documentation immigration documentation and failure to pay premiums? And just kind of any insights into deadlines that may have occurred in the third quarter specifically for any of those issues? Brian this is John.
You're working way too hard if you start this by saying good morning.
We don't have the granular detail in terms of why people rolled off the marketplace during the third quarter.
Okay.
And then...
It'd just be speculation on our part.
Yeah.
Do you have anything procedurally as far as any insights into some of the procedural documentation kind of deadlines for any of those issues or...
I don't believe that they give us reasons why people drop off whether it's whatever you had cited to.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're – Brian this is Mario the answer is no.
Okay then no worries.
And then one that I know you can help me out with.
Texas kind of picked up a bit sequentially was there – on the MLR side.
Was there anything kind of one time-ish or anything that you could point us to to what may be driving some of that? Go ahead Joe.
It's the launch of the MMP in Texas Brian that's picking up speed.
Okay.
So we'll run higher (40:00) MCR in the initial stages.
So that's just an initial – based on guests but not based on claims? Correct.
Correct.
Great.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Not to beat this horse to death but on the $25 million can you give us just a sense of sort of the gestation of how that occurred? I mean is this something that just sort of came up during the quarter or has this been – particularly I think you said New Mexico it's about $20 million.
Sort of how long has this been ongoing and when you kind of came to a resolution on it? I'll take the first part of that.
If you flip back through our 10-Qs particularly in the Washington situation we've been talking about this for a number of quarters.
The issue related to Washington is essentially our rates are tied to premium adjustment across – risk adjustment across the entire population and we don't have visibility into that.
We've been talking about that for a long time in the 10-Qs and we just got clarity on it just this quarter.
You can also go back to our Investor Day back in September where we talked a fair amount about this.
But suffice to say these are – until these amounts are at least settled for the first year it's very uncertain as to the actual mechanics of the calculation and the definitions involved.
Okay.
And then just on the guidance again I appreciate your comments.
But is there any – you kind of gave some of the puts and takes for the fourth quarter but is there anything large either on the plus side or the negative side that we should be thinking about or is it just sort of normal business trends with some impacts from maybe some of the recent acquisitions? I would say that Chris.
Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
The first one on the Providence acquisition you talked at the Investor Day about spending I think in the order of $160 million on behavioral-related care.
How quickly in the overlap perhaps how quickly can you begin to leverage Providence services into your health plan footprint? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Mario.
It's hard to say at this point because we haven't closed the acquisition the first thing we've got to do is close and then we can get in there and begin talking to them about how we can make better use of their services but that is our goal.
I just can't give you any idea on the timing.
And did I understand correctly that it would also be maybe the second step in the goal would be to expand the Providence footprint into additional Molina states? MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Certainly.
Okay.
Then on I guess Texas Quality where – sorry if this question has been asked.
Do you have any better visibility on the – what has been opaque calculation on that? Dave I think Juan José wins $25 because he bet at some point someone would ask that even if we were silent.
No we've got no update.
Okay.
And in Michigan with re-procurement there and the -- I think eight regions that you were awarded is it your expectation that membership would be about stable or do you think you can pick up some incremental numbers based on your going forward footprint? Usually we would only expect to pick up membership if one or more plans in a region were dropped.
I think in a couple of regions and we may have one plan that was dropped and so that membership would be distributed.
But for the most part we think it will largely be stable.
Okay.
And the HealthPlus acquisition is the only kind of cross benefit there just leverage as an SG&amp;A presence in the state.
Is that what I remembered from the Investor Day conversation? That's a big portion of it yes.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Great.
Our final question is a follow up question from Brian Wright with Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
I missed a bit of the answer on that last one I apologize.
Is there any set timeframe on getting greater clarity on the definitions in Texas? Well we thought we would have it by the end of the third quarter Brian we're hoping that we'll have it by the end of the year.
I recall the last time we got it it was about 15 months before we got clarity.
So if they give it to us by the end of the year it will be a step in the right direction.
Right.
So there is a chance but we're not holding our breath.
I'm not.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
MD - Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> All right.
Well thank you everyone.
We appreciate you joining in the call.
It was a good quarter and we look forward to talking to you at the next earnings release.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentleman thank you for standing-by.
Welcome to the Molina Healthcare Fourth Quarter and Year End 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Monday February 8 2016.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Juan José Orellana Senior Vice-President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Nikki.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
We apologize for the late start but apparently there is a problem with the telephone numbers so hopefully everybody will have joined by now.
The purpose of this call is to discuss Molina Healthcare's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2015.
The company issued its earnings release reporting these results today after the market closed and this release is now posted for viewing on our company website.
On the call with me today are Dr.
Mario Molina our Chief Executive Officer; John Molina our CFO; Terry Bayer our COO; and Joseph White our Chief Accounting Officer.
After the completion of our prepared remarks we will open the call to take your questions.
If you have multiple questions we ask that you get back in the queue so that others can have an opportunity to ask their questions.
As a reminder on Thursday at our investor day presentation we will discuss the company’s outlook for 2016.
Today we will only be taking questions related to our earnings release.
Additionally our comments today will contain forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All of our forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to numerous risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
A description of such risk factors can be found in our earnings release and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K annual report our Form 10-Q quarterly reports and our Form 8-K current reports.
These reports can be accessed under the Investor Relations tab of our company website or on the SEC's website.
All forward-looking statements made during today's call represent our judgment as of February 8 2016 and we disclaim any obligation to update such statements except as required by the securities laws.
This call is being recorded and a 30-day replay of the conference call will be available on our company's website molinahealthcare.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dr.
Mario Molina.
Thank you Juan José and thank you for that nice introduction.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining our call this afternoon.
The fourth quarter of 2015 capped off a very strong year for Molina Healthcare.
Net income more than doubled when compared to 2014 and we are making progress towards our goal of a 1.5% to 2% net income margin by the end of 2017.
However today I want to talk about our results within the framework of our mission and strategy.
Our mission is to provide quality healthcare to people receiving government assistance.
One of our first objectives of our strategy over the past 35 years has been to grow and diversify our revenue.
We have done just that in 2015.
Revenue grew by 46% from $9.7 billion in 2014 to just over $14 billion in 2015.
Revenue growth was driven by an increase in membership of about 35% from 2.6 million members in 2014 to slightly more than 3.5 million members by the end of 2015.
Our growth strategy can be divided into four components: growth and retention in our existing markets expansion into new geographies transitioning members and benefits from fee for service to managed care and finally developing and acquiring new products and capabilities.
During 2015 we successfully executed on all four of these components through our growth strategy.
We retained and grew exisitng business with our re-procurement wins in Michigan and Washington.
Our new contract in Michigan expanded our service area across all of the lower peninsula spanning an additional 18 counties.
The Washington win along with our acquisition of Columbia United Providers strengthens our presence in the Southwest region.
It also serves as a solid foundation to build on the state as the state continues to consolidate medical and behavioral health benefits under a single contract through additional regional procurements over the next few years.
We also grew our marketplace enrollment from 15 000 members in 2014 to over 200 000 members in December 2015.
Finally in-market or tuck-in acquisitions made a major contribution to our growth in existing markets in 2015.
2015 was the most active year in M&amp;A in our company’s history.
Of the nine acquisitions we announced in 2015 eight were in-market or tuck-in acquisitions in four of exisitng states.
These acquisitions alone will add about $1.2 billion in premium revenue in 2016.
Because these are asset purchases where we acquire the Medicaid contract from another health plan these transactions have minimum retention [ph] risks and allow us to spread existing administrative overhead costs over a larger membership.
In keeping with the second component of our growth strategy enter into new geographic markets we launched our health plan in Puerto Rico in April of 2015.
As I noted a minute ago transitioning members and benefits from fee for service to managed care is the third component of our growth strategy.
In 2015 we saw a strong growth in our Medicare Medicaid plan and aged blind and disabled programs.
While smaller in total numbers of members these programs translate into strong revenue growth because these members come with much higher premiums when compared to the marketplace and Medicaid expansion programs or our tenant [ph] members.
The final component of our growth strategy is the development and acquisition of new products and capabilities.
In addition to the in-market acquisitions that I have already discussed we also acquired a behavioral health and mental health services provider Providence Human Services in November.
This transaction is now closed and has been rebranded under the name Pathways.
Pathways brings in-house additional capabilities in behavioral health and some long term services and supports.
Altogether our growth strategy has allowed us to expand from less than 1 million members in 2005 to 3.9 million members today resulting in a compound annual growth rate of 16%.
Our revenues on the other hand have grown 1.5 times faster than that of our membership during that same period.
That is because we have a greater portion of our members with chronic health conditions that come with higher premiums enabling us to achieve a compound annual growth of revenues of 24%.
In 2015 we saw net income more than doubled from $62 million in 2014 to $143 million in 2015.
On a relative basis our net income margin increased from 0.6% in 2014 to 1% in 2015 a jump of 67% and an important milestone on our path towards achieving our long term net income margin goal of 1.5% to 2%.
How do we improve our financial performance? Our medical care ratio declined from 89.5% of revenue in 2014 to 89% of revenue in 2015 while administrative costs rose only slightly pressured by costs associated with the marketplace.
Nevertheless we have made solid progress on improving our margins.
At the same time we have worked to keep our administrative costs low at around 8% down from a high of 10% in 2013.
This is significant when you consider that we continued to expand our business considerably over the past two years while growing into infrastructure we had invested in prior to commencing new contracts involving long term care services and serving the chronic care conditions of dual eligible members.
We did all of these without losing our focus on quality.
Five of our health plans improved their CMS quality ratings for Medicare to 3.5 stars and all of our eligible health plans maintained accreditation by the National Committee for Quality Assurance.
But that’s not all.
We continue to invest in the company to better serve our members in the future.
We installed electronic health records in all of our clinics earning meaningful use payments along the way.
We also expanded the size of a number of our clinics and added behavioral health providers and social workers to help our members deal with mental health and social issues that were affecting and complicating their health care.
We built provider and member portals to allow physicians and members to interact with our health plans more easily.
And we took steps to further bolster the privacy of protected health information.
We implemented new Medicaid Medicaid plan contracts in Michigan South Carolina and Texas and brought up a new health plan in Puerto Rico.
All of these things will drive shareholder value in the long term.
I am proud of the team that we have built and I am proud of what we’ve accomplished over the past 35 years.
This past year was an inflection point in our efforts to improve our margins.
That being said the opportunity before us with managed long term care services for Medicaid patients and the opportunities for care coordination our opportunity lies with these patients in the future.
And our future is bright indeed.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to John who will review in detail the financial results for the quarter and the year ending December 2015.
Thank you Mario and hello everyone.
As Mario said the fourth quarter was a strong close to a strong year.
Our financial performance in 2015 exceeded our expectations and bodes well for the future.
In addition to our top line revenue and membership growth we took substantial strides towards our margin targets for the end of 2017.
We will be providing additional insight into what 2016 holds later this week during our investor day.
But for now I want to focus on our performance throughout 2015.
Today we report full year earnings of $2.57 almost doubling the $1.29 we reported last year.
Fourth quarter EPS of $0.51 and our full year earnings would have been $0.26 and $0.27 higher respectively but for the following items.
First we recorded a $15 million charge resulting from the early termination of a hospital management agreement.
Let me be clear this expense has been included in our 2015 results and will not be a drag on earnings in 2016 [ph].
We [ph] incurred G&amp;A expense relating to transaction costs during the quarter associated with our acquisitions.
Finally we also recognized $6 million in interest expense related to our recent senior note offerings that we issued in November an expense that we will continue to recognize going forward.
Premium revenue was up almost 50% from 2014 and has more than doubled since 2013.
That growth in itself is impressive but we should not forget the many paths we have traveled to get here.
In two years we have established a start-up health plan in Puerto Rico opened six Medicare Medicaid health plans established a strong physician in the ACA marketplaces won four key re-procurements among our health plan and MMS states closed on 10 acquisitions through January 2016 and provided over 0.5 million Medicaid expansion members the peace of mind that comes with access to affordable quality healthcare.
We did all of these while strengthening our capital position improving profitability and staying true to our commitment to deliver quality healthcare to those most in need.
Words cannot express the pride that Mario my sister Martha and I feel when we look at what Molina has accomplished.
We offer our heartfelt thanks to each and every one of the 20 000 Molina team members who helped make this happen.
We continue to transition from a company providing episodic medical care to also serving members with complex care needs that include healthcare and long term services and support.
During 2015 enrollment [technical difficulty] 3.5 million members an increase of more than 900 000 members when compared to December of 2014.
Membership growth remained strong across all lines of business as a result of continued organic Medicaid expansion growth the launch of our Puerto Rico health plan enrollment growth in our Medicare Medicaid plans in Texas and Michigan as they completed passive enrollment strong marketplace enrollment and the completion and closing of four in-market acquisitions during 2015.
Our marketplace business continues to perform well.
Our fourth quarter marketplace medical care ratio was higher than we’ve seen earlier in the year.
But this was the result of true-ups to our risk adjustment liability that relates to the entire year.
Mario talked about the convergence of medical cost ratios between marketplace and the rest of our business last month in San Francisco.
We will have more to say about this later in the week but for now it is enough to know that we are confident that marketplace enrollment will remain a valuable complement to our core business moving forward.
Medical margin improvement has largely driven our bottom line profitability improvement.
In fact all of our states saw improved medical margin compared to last year’s performance and our nearly $1.5 billion medical margin this year represents a 53% improvement to 2014 results.
We believe that our lower medical care ratio in 2015 is the first indication of success for our efforts focused on care management and care coordination for our members with the most complex medical and social needs.
Our general and administrative ratio increased 8.2% in 2015 compared to 7.9% in 2014.
If we remove the impact of marketplace broker commissions and exchange fees from the calculation G&amp;A ratio actually decreased from 7.8% in 2014 to 7.5% this year.
Sequentially our G&amp;A ratio in the fourth quarter of 2015 was higher than in the third quarter primarily because of higher costs incurred for the 2016 Medicare and marketplace open enrollments and various acquisition costs.
In general we are very pleased with the year-over-year reduction in our consolidated medical care ratio.
Improving administrative efficiency bolsters improving medical margins I spoke about a few minutes ago.
As of December 31 2015 the company had cash and investments of more than $4 billion including in excess of $600 million at the parent company.
As our results include the reductions I first mentioned I am pleased with our performance and our results for the year as we continue to grow while demonstrating progress towards our longer term goals.
As a reminder we will be hosting our investor day conference in New York city this Thursday February 11 at 12:30 PM Eastern Time.
At that presentation we will be discussing the company’s outlook and strategy for 2016.
We look forward to seeing you there or encourage you to listen in via the webcast.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready to take questions but I will again remind everyone we will not be speaking to questions that address performance or expected performance for 2016.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
So first question just on the hospital contract termination I just wanted to better understand what exactly happened there.
Was that some sort of contract dispute around rates et cetera? And then were you in some sort of position where you owed the facility some sort of settlements or how did that cost you guys money? Josh this is John.
A little bit different kind of contract than we are used to.
A couple of years ago we actually went into a management of the acute care services of a hospital that we did not own but that a behavioral health company owned.
Given their priorities and our priorities did not converge as we expected.
We felt the best thing for us to do was to get out of that contract.
In order to get out of that contract we took a charge of $15 million.
So it was some sort of performance fee that you guys would have to -- it was just to break the contract it sounds like.
So it wasn't a medical expense or anything like that? Correct.
Josh we did book it medical expense because it was part of our direct delivery network but not as an ongoing provider contract like we would have with an unaffiliated hospital.
And so now you'll just replace it with some sort of fee-for-service payment to other providers in the market whatever market that is? That’s correct.
And then just second on the Texas performance fees it looks like you didn't book -- I don't want to say you didn't book anything but it didn't look like you booked the full amount for sure in the fourth quarter.
Did you book anything? And then if not are we now less confident or is this just again a timing issue where you can't prove it so you're not booking it? I think it’s the latter Josh.
We didn’t book anything in the fourth quarter.
It’s not that we are less confident it’s just that we have really no additional news that would give us any more confidence at this point to book anything.
It’s a very challenging environment to try in and keep the accounting in parallel with items that we can’t assess.
And then as I remember John you had given guidance early in the year when you guys were providing initial guidance that had included that right? So I just want to make sure that's right.
That's typically the practice but if you anticipate getting some sort of performance fees that will be included; and then we should think about your earnings coming in a little bit better relative -- despite the fact you didn't get any of the Texas performance fees.
Is that fair? That’s fair.
And I assume you would just continue that practice.
You'll assume you're going to be able to book performance fees as you've always been able to in your contracts? We do assume that we will book a portion of it and on Thursday we can provide some additional insight into that.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Thank you.
You guys have had a number of contracts that renewed their rates.
Since we last spoke there's I think Texas in September and Michigan in October and then a number in January.
So if can you kind of walk us through what you're seeing so far with the rate update? Sarah this is John.
I don’t have that numbers specifically for Texas and suffice it to say we are we’re going to be detailing that out on Thursday but it still remains very low single digits if anything at all.
And I think a couple of states actually had some drop in the rates effective Jan 1.
So the rate environment is not where we would like it to be and our improvement is not going to be driven primarily by increased rates.
And was there anything out-of-period in the quarter in relation to the New Mexico true-up? I think in the past you guys had talked about the liability being in excess of third-quarter accruals there.
So was there anything out-of-period recognized in New Mexico? Sarah it’s Joe speaking.
No there wasn’t.
If I can just tag on to what John said about rates we’re not seeing anything different as he emphasized now than we've been talking about for the last couple of years.
Low single digits at best.
So I just wanted to make sure that that was familiar.
But nothing picked up in New Mexico.
And just to clarify Joe are liabilities still in excess of current accruals for New Mexico or are you guys kind of on par now? Going back to the third quarter disclosure I wouldn’t say liabilities are in excess of accruals because the two equal each other.
If you took the department’s most extreme position I guess that exceeds our liability but we do not believe that it’s going to play out the department’s most extreme position.
So we think we are adequately reserved at December 31.
And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
This is actually Steve Baxter on for Kevin.
I wanted to come back to your comments on the exchange business.
I guess can you quantify the impact the dollar impact of the risk adjustment true-up in the quarter -- and I guess what the entire net change to the Three Rs was? Just trying to get a sense for the run rate of the business headed into 2016.
It’s Joe.
I will take that question.
Outside of risk adjustment the impact of the 3Rs is very minimal.
Obviously the corridors I think everybody is familiar with.
There's not a lot of protection from those.
Reinsurance is pretty much easily measured.
So then we are left with the risk adjustment and I think it’s fair to say that if you look at the year in total which we disclosed for marketplace [technical difficulty] the number for the full year.
So I think broadly you can take the difference in MCR between the fourth quarter and the year to date and that would basically reflect the impact of risk adjustment for the quarter.
And I guess nothing so significant that it kind of impacts how you feel like you are positioned for 2016? Well that’s a 2016 question.
But I think John he made it clear that we still feel reasonably confident about marketplace from our perspective.
And then I guess on the recent acquisitions you guys have done can you give us an update on the performance of Providence or I guess now Pathways's performance since you closed the deal and performance of the tuck-in deals? I think you guys have said that those typically come on a little bit above total company margins.
Is that kind of playing out with your expectations? Providence is a little bit of a different animal than our normal managed-care tuck-ins.
We see some of those come in with margins that start out a little bit lower and then they go higher.
They start out a little bit lower because you’ve got some pent-up demand that occurs like usually in the first quarter after the acquisition than of having higher margins overall because you don’t have to add as much in terms of an admin expense.
Incremental admin for a tuck-in is less than the average.
On Providence that’s largely a fee for service business currently which Mario will discuss on Thursday how we want to use that in the future but we’ve only had it now for November and December.
So it is moving along as we expected for the first two months.
Our next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
So I wanted to just follow up on the 1.5% to 2% you've expressed confidence in the net income margin.
How are the marketplaces performing? It looks like you went from about 55% to 70% in the third quarter and now it's 73% or 74% on the MLR.
As you are seeing the open enrollment membership coming in ex-the Three Rs and you've seen quite a bit of attrition it looks like how is this going to bode for next year? And do you expect margins to remain constant or expand? So Ana you said the magic words the next year.
We’ll talk about that on Thursday.
But I guess from the experience in the fourth quarter say for going from the third quarter to the fourth quarter you saw a little bit of deterioration.
Are you seeing any issues with special enrollments? And when you look at the risk adjusters are you thinking about a pooled risk adjuster across companies that are serving more than just the churn from the Medicaid population? And how have you booked it? It’s Joe.
I am not sure I understood the last question.
But speaking in general we feel that that for 2015 the full year financial performance we disclosed is indicative of where the margins ended up for this year.
We don’t think fourth quarter reflects anything unique or any kind of inflection point.
And as John and Mario said we will talk about the rest on Thursday.
And just following up on your tax rate how should I think about this when I'm modeling it? It surprised me a little bit because it was positive.
The tax rate for the full year came in at – came in pretty close to what we thought it would come in when we guided back – revised guidance back in September.
The rate came in around 56 – I want to say 56.2% -- which is 55.5% -- I think back in June we guided to 56%.
So it’s come in about what we expected it would come in at.
Obviously it’s high for all the reasons we’ve talked about in the past the non-deductibility of the health insurance provider fee in particular.
But the fourth quarter came in lower than that correct? Or am I reading that wrong? That’s correct.
In the fourth quarter added very typical we took in some discrete items that were favorable various credits and stuff that are available swapping [ph] credits R&amp;D credits normal course type of stuff.
The ETR has also helped out a little bit by the fact that our pre-tax income came in higher than we were anticipating back in June when we revised guidance.
So that gives you a – that improvement in the pretax number gives you – also gives you some lift in lowering your effective tax rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
Just one quick follow-up on the tax rate.
If I normalize it for the health insurer fee it looks like it came in in the upper-20% range in the quarter.
Is that the right way to think about it? I think at a very technical level that might be the right way to think about it Chris but again if you think about what happened in the fourth quarter we had the benefit of the three items which are obviously not repeated in the other quarters.
So that’s going to push down the rate.
And again the fact that pretax income came in higher than we anticipated is also going to push down the ETR for the year and it’s all going to be magnified in the quarter.
So like much of this year’s financial performance I think the way to look at is to look at where we ended the full year on.
And if you care to extrapolate extrapolate from that or wait until we talk about it on Thursday.
And then on the $15 million charge in the quarter I know you guys don't update guidance very frequently but was that $15 million assumed in the guidance that you had left out there? No it isn’t.
And then the last question which just may fall into the conversation later in the week but you raised about $700 million a couple months ago.
And it looks like a lot of that is still residual on the balance sheet.
How should we think about the deployment of that money? There really hasn’t been change in the strategy of how we want to deploy the money in terms of statutory capital as we enter new markets and acquisitions both of health plans and new capabilities.
But is the money earmarked specifically for something at this point or right now just in the kitty for future uses? – Yes.
Our next question comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Just a couple of quick things.
On the duals give us just your latest thoughts as you ended the year on that program.
And I noticed specifically California I guess has announced they're going to delay their decision on whether to continue.
Are you in discussions with them? What's happening just generally in the dual program and particularly California? This is Mario.
Yes the duals continue to march forward.
We are happy with the contracts.
The issue in California is around the managed care tax.
I do think that’s going to get resolved.
So we are not anticipating any changes in those programs right now.
If there was one thing we would like to see the government do it would be to allow us to market and enroll directly as we do for other Medicare beneficiaries.
And I might just ask you quickly for my follow-up on the Puerto Rico.
It looks like you had a very good medical care ratio in the quarter.
Just wondering it seems like that must be going well.
Is there any update on Puerto Rico and how that's working? There is not a lot to say about Puerto Rico at this point.
We’ve had that contract for less than a year.
I would say that it’s operating pretty much the way we anticipated.
We had some initial startup problems that are typical for any kind of a new health plan but those have largely been ironed out and it seems to be doing well.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
Just had a question on Florida it looked like the MLR was up quite a bit sequentially.
Was that where you guys were booking the hospital management charge or was there something else going on there? Hi it’s Joe speaking.
The main issue that you see pushing through the Florida MLR is just the adjustments that we talked about the exchanges.
Remember most of our exchange enrollment last year was in Florida.
So that was mostly just the change in the risk adjuster accruals playing out in Florida? Exactly exactly.
So think of that as being spread over the entire year.
And our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Just one quick one on service revenue.
It doubled sequentially; is that related to the Providence acquisition? Tom it’s Joe.
That’s correct.
We are recording a revenue associated with Pathways as service revenue and related expense as service expense just to separate it from our health plan.
And then just a quick follow-up on the tax issues.
The favorable items that were recorded in the fourth quarter -- were you mostly expecting those? Because we had modeled a much higher tax rate.
I don’t want to say our tax leadership may have forecasted it.
I know that we typically do receive these kind of benefits these kind of discrete benefits we generally record that was in the fourth quarter.
I don’t think there’s surprising in their size I think what you might not have modeled I don’t know what Tom what you modeled for pretax income number.
But again if you modeled a pretax income number much as we expected in our guidance when that number turned out higher it’s going to push down the effective tax rate.
So that might be your issue there.
So maybe these things just come in when they come in and for the full year you were pretty much right on where you expected that's probably how I should think about it? Again with the exception that pre-tax income came in higher than we expected so that was a little bit of a – depressing all the tax rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with JPMorgan.
I was just slightly tuned out two questions ago.
So I hope I'm not asking the same question but if I am just tell me to move on.
But Joe you've done a good job all year describing to us that some of these very low MLRs in the marketplace business aren't completely obviously accruing to earnings because the minimum medical loss ratios.
Given that you've got these additional risk adjustment accruals in the fourth quarter were you able to reverse any of the rebate accruals for the year to date? Yes they are small right now.
The rebate accruals are within – well under $10 million.
I don’t have that handy but they’ve pretty much dropped to nothing.
And also I just wanted [technical difficulty] the loss ratio includes that $15 million.
So really that's maybe recurring numbers about 40 basis points lower -- $88.7 million maybe? Is that right? I haven’t done the math on that but you are correct.
It is in medical costs so to get an MLR you’d have to back that out.
And then last question I guess I have lost track of MyCare Chicago? Did that transaction close yet? We were looking for maybe $60 000 in Illinois enrollment which obviously wasn't in the year-end number sequentially.
This is John.
We are still waiting on one of the Chicago acquisitions to close in March the rest closed in January.
It’s Joe again.
So when they’re closed in January obviously you don’t see them on these numbers.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Just a follow-up on the earlier question in terms of Pathways Providence.
Sounds like that's running through service revenue.
When you have a situation in which a state includes behavioral going forward at some point are we going to see some of that revenue get allocated to that state as you do services internally or how should we think about that? Mike it’s Joe speaking.
I think what you will see going forward is that the health plan will pick up a portion of that service expense – the bottom line impact should be improved slightly improved margins.
Our final question comes from the line of Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Part of my Florida question was asked a couple of minutes ago but I did want to clarify we were also expecting a rate update to impact your revenue and MLR in the fourth quarter and I think recognizing maybe five or even six months' worth of rate updates in the fourth quarter.
Did that happen and what impact on the MLR did that have if you can tell me? Dave are you talking specifically about Florida? Yes.
The Florida rate increase was – I think the Florida rate increase we start about 5% we started picking that up September – So we talked about in the last call.
So that’s been there from September [ph].
So you did accrue that in the last quarter pro rata? It wasn't a cash back in the fourth quarter? Correct for two months.
End of Q&amp;A And we have no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back to you.
Well thanks for joining us everyone.
We look forward to seeing you on Thursday in New York for investor day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you once again for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.