Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Clinton and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We’ll conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I’d like to hand the call over to Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relation’s section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by federal securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.
- Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Charles and thank you all of you for being with us today.
In 2012 everything came together for MPT.
All of the hard work and precise planning paid off.
The capital and balance sheet planning the personnel planning and development the acquisitions’ groundwork it all came together to produce a year of spectacular results.
In previous years we had never acquired more than approximately $425 million in any one year and in fact had averaged about $300 million a year.
In 2012 our acquisitions and commitments exceeded $800 million.
Our normalized FFO per share for the year increased by 27%.
By the fourth quarter our FFO had increased 32% year-over-year.
Our pay-out ratio improved to 80% and is expected to continue to improve in 2013.
Both of these metrics are almost a full year ahead of our projections and investors’ expectations.
As you know we take a very disciplined approach to our RIDEA or equity type investments.
The non-Ernest or RIDEA investments proved themselves this year generating returns in excess of 40% on an annualized basis for the last three quarters.
The Ernest results are right in line with expectations generating an approximately 15% return on our equity type investment.
Some of the highlights of 2012 for MPT are we completed a restructuring of our investment with Prime whereby all of our leases are now under master leases.
In addition to the security that a master lease provides we also improved the annual rental increases to correspond to CPI without any limits.
We completed a management agreement with St.
Vincent’s Health which operates 14 hospitals in Indiana and is part of the Ascension Health Group for the management of Monroe Hospital in Bloomington Indiana.
We selectively sold two average assets or 27% more than their original cost validating our investment leases and demonstrating to the market the value of our existing portfolio.
Our portfolio continued to perform well above industry standards.
The EBITDAR lease coverage ratio for our mature operations meaning the properties have been in our portfolio for at least a year at approximately 5 times.
Nine of our facilities achieved the Top Performer recognition from the Joint Commission.
We received an upgrade for Moody’s in our credit rating to Ba1.
We executed several capital transactions that maintained conservative leverage levels provided us with stability and financial flexibility and with a record low cost of capital for MPT.
We issued a $100 million in unsecured term loan at 250 basis points over LIBOR.
We issued $220 million in equity.
We increased the revolver by $70 million now having a total of eight banks participating in the credit facility.
We issued $200 million in 10-year unsecured bonds at 50 basis points lower than our most recent issue.
MPT’s total return to shareholders for 2012 was approximately 31% and was more than 85% for the last five years placing MPT in the approximately 88 percentile of broad based REIT indices.
Turning to our existing portfolio we added a number of properties to the mature listing meaning that they again have been in our portfolio for at least 12 months.
These facilities were strong performers and our increases in coverages reflect that.
However you won’t be able to do a direct comparison of the coverages announced on the third quarter call because these properties were not in those coverages and their comparisons today include their ramp up period.
Looking first at our acute care hospital segment on a trailing 12-month basis fourth quarter over fourth quarter our acute care EBITDAR coverage increased 12% to approximately 5.84 times.
This was also a significant improvement for trailing 12 months fourth quarter over third quarter.
Our LTACHs and in-patient rehabilitation hospitals or IRFs also saw similar improvements.
For trailing 12 months fourth quarter over fourth quarter the LTACHs improved to almost 2.5 times or a 6% increase and IRFs improved to almost four times at 3.82 or 15% increase.
The improvement over third quarter was not quite as dramatic coming in at an increase of 2% and 6% respectively.
So again in an attempt to present a full picture of how well our properties are doing with an expanding portfolio.
Of our 22 operators only four experienced any declines in EBITDAR coverage and those were not significant and they did not involve our two largest operators.
And one of the four was directly affected by Hurricane Sandy.
Regarding utilization trends for our hospitals our acute care hospitals saw a slight increase year-over-year and were flat quarter-over-quarter.
The IRFs were up slightly year-over-year and up about 3% quarter-over-quarter.
LTACH utilization was down across the board 9.6% year-over-year and 7.3% quarter-over-quarter.
For the 11th month period from January through November Ernest EBITDAR is approximately 2.5% ahead of budget.
Since acquiring Ernest last February we have commenced construction on two new IRFs for Ernest and completed the expansion of one of their facilities.
One of these commenced operations in February and the others expected in the third quarter of 2013.
River Oaks now known as Twelve Oaks completed its renovations for the vast majority of the building and our new lead tenant representing 55% of the building commenced operations on January the 23rd.
The construction and improvements turned out better than even we expected and we believe we would not have any problems leasing the remaining approximately 45%.
Of the 10 properties that were under development in 2012 four of them commenced operations in 2012 three are expected to complete construction and commence operations in the first quarter of 2013 two in the third quarter and one in 2014.
We were delighted how our existing portfolio is performing and are well positioned for further accretive growth in 2013 and beyond.
At this time Steve will walk you through the financial results for 2012 and provide guidance for 2013.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
As Ed has just emphasized 2012 was a landmark year for us and met our real estate investment strategies our idea of investment strategies our capital strategies and our people strategies all came together.
The effects on our per share of profitability measures our dividend coverage and our total return to shareholders were dramatic.
Total annual revenue was up almost 50% year-over-year.
Normalized FFO was up by 53% year-over-year.
And on a per share basis fourth quarter normalized FFO was $0.25 in 2012 32% higher than 2011’s $0.19.
This is the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year per share FFO growth that exceeds 30%.
For the year our per share FFO increased by 27% and our dividend payout ratio correspondingly improved to 80% for the quarter with further improvements expected in 2013.
We think it’s important to point out what maybe obviously and that is because we are continuing to make significant amounts of acquisitions at average cash rates of return between 9% and 11%.
And because our cost of capital is substantially lower than that each dollar we invest in new assets immediately increases our per share results and improves our dividend payout ratio even further.
We made a single small RIDEA-type investment in the fourth quarter our only such investment in 2012 other than the Ernest investment.
That brings to eight the number of these investments in operations that we have made including Ernest.
In the fourth quarter we recorded $3.5 million in earnings from our operating investment in Ernest for an approximate annualized return of 15% and $2.1 million for the other seven investments for an approximate annualized return of 43%.
As we have previously reported our objective in making investments in operations under RIDEA or otherwise is to achieve outsized returns for little sometimes no incremental risk or investment and returns exceeding 40% demonstrates our success.
Remember that we separately earn rent and mortgage interest of approximately $52 million annually from these operators.
There are two items that reconcile funds from operations to normalized FFO number one.
Costs associated with asset acquisitions are $1.3 million and number two the non-cash charge of accrued straight line rent related to facilities that we sold during the quarter of about $4.8 million.
We recognized gains on sale of those facilities exceeding $9 million and those gains of course are excluded from FFO in accordance with common practice.
We had previously reported one of these sales which accounts for $7.2 million of the gain.
And as a reminder the sale proceeds when combined with rental receipts since we acquired the property resulted in an un-levered internal rate of return of 15%.
In addition to these property sales our portfolio transactions during the fourth quarter included the $15 million acquisition of an existing long-term acute care hospital along with the small OpCo investment that gives us rights to a 25% interest in that operator.
Commencement of development of a $33 million replacement surgical hospital commencement of development of an $18 million rehabilitation hospital for Ernest and our $100 million commitment to fund development and leasing of up to 25 freestanding emergency facilities.
The weighted average initial lease rates for our fourth quarter investment exceeded 10%.
We financed the fourth quarter investments with cash on hand including proceeds from the property sales I just mentioned and from the sale of approximately 1.1 million shares under our aftermarket share program.
Detailed information about our quarter end capitalization details is included in the supplemental disclosures that were posted to our website earlier this morning.
Turning to guidance this morning we are providing our estimate of 2013 normalized FFO of $1.10 per share.
In arriving at this estimate we took into account our assets and debt as of December 31 placement into service of one Emerus emergency hospital during the first quarter of 2013 placement into service of the Ernest rehab hospital in Lafayette Indiana during the first quarter and the Ernest rehab hospital in Spartanburg South Carolina in the fourth quarter and the acquisition during the second half of 2013 of $400 million of new hospital real estate.
Because we think the first of the new acquisitions will close beginning in July the $1.10 annual estimate will likely not be equal quarter-to-quarter.
Our estimate also includes assumptions about our capital raising activities including we expect to maintain our balance sheet in 2013 such that our total debt to the un-depreciated book assets approximates 30 excuse me 43% to 45%.
We expect pricing in the unsecured debt market will remain in line with recent periods and by way of reference our two issues of unsecured bonds have traded recently between yields of 4.75% and 5.25%.
And our dividend payout ratio will remain around the 75% level.
Based on these assumptions the pro forma estimated normalized FFO run rate as of January 1 2014 would be approximately $1.16 per share and that is not an estimate for 2014 but simply an extension of pro forma results and does not make any assumptions about acquisitions over and above our $400 million guidance for 2013.
But we have every reason to expect that in 2014 we will continue to be able to execute on our strategy of buying high-yielding hospital real-estate creating immediate and meaningful per share incremental value.
As usual these estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real-estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight line rent property sales or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments in tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
So before we go to questions let me summarize.
We have positioned MPT from our inception over nine years ago to take advantage of high real estate returns from hospital real estate assets which are truly critical necessary assets to the communities they serve very similar to other infrastructure assets that a population cannot live without and additionally to earn incremental outsized returns from limited prudent investments in operations.
2012 was the best demonstration so far of our success in executing that business plan.
Here in the early months of 2013 we are working a large and attractive pipeline of acquisition opportunities we have tremendous access to low cost capital and our management team is uniquely experienced to invest that capital in high-yielding hospital real estate.
Every dollar we invest in 2013 under those conditions creates immediate accretion for our shareholders.
With that I will turn the call back to the operator and we will take any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from the line of Karin Ford of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Karin.
Just first a couple of questions of clarification on the guidance.
So Steve based on your comments guidance does assume some level of equity issuance in order to tame that leverage level that you mentioned 43% or 45%? Yes.
The guidance does include maintaining that low 40s to 45% leverage.
And it also does include an unsecured debt deal as well? Well it doesn’t necessarily identify any specific source of capital.
One would expect given conditions in the market that unsecured debt would be part of that.
Okay.
Okay that’s fair.
Did you guys close yet on any properties under the First Choice facility so far this year? Not yet.
Okay.
When do you expect to start to deploy that capital? Imminently.
Okay.
Final question is I think you had three leases expiring at the end of last year it looked like two of those pushed into this year.
Can you talk about the status on those and what the rent spread was on the one that you did take care of? Jr.</strong> Two of Cornerstone leases and we are still negotiating with the tenant.
The other was a property that we sold in actually in this quarter and the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And your expectation is that you’ll resign Cornerstone and do you expect the rent to change at all on that on those two leases? Jr.</strong> We would not expect any change in the route assuming an extension of those leases.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
Just Jr.</strong> Hey Tayo.
Morning.
Along Karin’s line of question about the guidance just want to make sure I understand what’s in it and what’s not $400 million of new acquisitions the construction of the rehab hospitals in Spartanburg but there’s nothing in there from the First Choice commitment and nothing in there from the Altoona Wisconsin commitment? Jr.</strong> There’s nothing in 2013 coming from First Choice and on Altoona there would be probably nothing.
Okay all right.
That’s helpful.
Okay.
I mean could you just talk about the $400 million itself whether it is more of a focus on general acute care hospitals or stuff that’s of post acute care it’s kind of up in the air depending on the opportunity you get? Jr.</strong> Yeah Tayo it’s the same answer that we’ve given the last few quarters about that.
With the Ernest transaction that we did we got a little bit out of whack than what our normal mix is for properties.
And so we expect that going forward as it was after post-Ernest and as we expect in 2013 it will be much more weighted toward the acute care.
That’s great.
And then as roughly a year away from the implementation of universal healthcare what are you kind of carrying from hospital and kind of what are they doing at this point to prepare for that and how will that potentially benefit MPW going forward? Jr.</strong> Well first I think it will be a surprise for everybody to know that we we’re going to universal healthcare but understanding your question.
Tayo I think – I think there are number of questions on that.
I think everybody is still trying to figure out exactly where everybody is going to end up on the healthcare exchanges in the various states with some participating some not participating and federal government running most of the warrants in the country.
Everybody still trying to figure out exactly what ACOs mean trying to figure out exactly what bundling mean but I think the bottom line for everyone is a work through the various nuances of the details of ObamaCare that the answer is going to be that there aren’t going to be any great increases but there aren’t going to be any great decreases and rather than much changes in the reimbursements dollars it’s more going to be just understanding the new system and where the opportunities are.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just on the topic of change in reimbursement dollars now that we’re a month away from the post-sequestration I mean what’s your take from conversations you’re having either with Washington pundits or whoever you are talking with in regards to whether you think sequestration happens or whether we end up with something totally different? Jr.</strong> We’ll Tayo I got out of the business a long time ago trying to figure out what Congress was going to do and that was back in time where they actually spoke to each other.
So I certainly have no idea at a time when they won’t even speak to each other across the aisle.
But you’ll recall that we went with this in great detail in the third quarter call and let me just reminder you rather than trying to figure out exactly where we’ll end up whether it’s with sequestration or whether it’s with one of the other various plans to get the budget under control that have been mentioned out there rather than trying to figure out what that answer is going to be you’ll recall that we ran a couple of scenarios that assumed two different scenarios and they’re both draconian.
One was that there was an across the board 5% cut in Medicare and that the other one was that there was a 10% across the board cut in Medicare.
And you’ll remember that from those my conversation in the third quarter call if you assume that there’s a 5% overall cut to Medicare and that our tenants make absolutely no adjustments in the way they operate which is obviously a very conservative and ludicrous analysis but under those circumstances.
Our portfolio coverage would go down to about 4.25 times.
The acute care hospital coverage will see approximately a 700 basis point drop and the LTACHs about a 50 basis point drop and the IRFs about a 40 basis point drop.
If you assume a 10% cut across the board to Medicare then MPT’s total portfolio coverage will see a drop of just more than a 100 basis points.
LTACHs would see the biggest decline – would see a decline of about a 100 basis points and the IRFs will see a coverage I mean see a decline of about 80 basis points.
So in both of those situations we still have good coverage and MPT’s rent wouldn’t be affected at all and obviously I think everybody would agree that those types of cuts are very draconian.
But that’s about the best way we can analyze it rather than trying to figure out what congresses is going to do.
But I think as you think about this and you go through your analysis of what may be and what might not be you got to keep in mind that you just can’t paint a picture in this country where we’re not going to continue to have hospitals.
And hospitals particularly acute care hospitals are going to remain at the top of the pyramid structure if you will for the delivery system in this country.
So we feel very good about where we’re positioned for all of the continued budget discussions.
No that’s very helpful.
Then just one more for the road there was a press release that came out last night about Prime disclosing a couple of federal investigations.
I know it’s hard off to practice but is there anything about those investigations you can tell us? Jr.</strong> Yeah and Tayo it was not a press release it was another article written by California Watch which as an arm of the SEIU.
And if you read the article closely you’ll see that it’s the exact same allegations that were brought up approximately three years ago.
Now if you remember all the discussions that we’ve had about that those allegations have been investigated by the State of California HFAP and JCAHO and others and all of those instances they were cleared.
And I think that we and Prime and obviously we saw the same article you did but we and prime I haven’t spoken to Prime but I can imagine they feel the same way as we do.
We actually welcome the Justice Department investigation if in fact there is one because this is not unlike our court systems where you have the process where you start with the lower courts and make it all the way up to Supreme Court.
Obviously if there is indeed the same investigation it will be the final say-so and hopefully finally put all of this to bid.
Okay that’s helpful.
I mean it just seems like the press release is saying that Prime actually did disclose this in the process of trying to buy a new hospital? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
It was an article written by the SEIU not running by California Watch not a press release but what they quoted was that Prime stated it and a filing that they made I believe in Rhode Island where they were trying to acquire an additional property that those same allegations were being investigated by the Justice Department.
Now there is one new additional apparent investigation it’s kind of a damned if you do damned if you don’t.
You recall that early on three somewhat years ago that the California Watch had a patient and I believe maybe in the Redding California facility that actually used that patient’s name and used the diagnosis in that patient’s medical records to make these allegations against Prime.
Well that apparently is okay but when Prime used those same medical records and patient information to refute those allegations they got charged with violating the HIPAA rules.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you so much.
Jr.</strong> Okay Tayo.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Yeah sorry about that.
And what drove your strong pace of acquisitions in 2012 and why do you expect they will fall back down to $400 million in 2013? Jr.</strong> Well that’s a good question Mike.
2012 was obviously a fantastic year.
The $400 million guidance for 2013 is not an indication that the volume is any less.
It’s that all of these processes we have learned over the last 10 years just take a very long time.
So a lot of the things that we are working on in 2012 we began working on in 2011.
So it’s just a matter of all of it falling in place.
So it is possible that we could greatly exceed that $400 million but that’s a conservative attempt based on where we see the time being able to spend the timeline that it takes to get these things over the finish line.
Okay.
And then do you have the sites picked out for the First Choice development projects yet? Jr.</strong> Yeah I remember that First Choice is actually doing the site development.
The way the process will work is that they will pick the sites bring them to us we will review them or and approve them or not.
And so yes there are a large number of sites that they have already picked out and we expect to start getting those sent to us very soon.
Okay.
And then my last question is related to the documentation and coding adjustments that could occur for the 2014 update for the Medicare rate for hospitals.
I believe that’s what they indicate they are going to cut it by 60 80 basis points to stop overpayments.
And then they are going to try to recover about $11 billion of overpayments over the next four years.
And I know how you already talked about that how that will hit your coverage ratios but will that affect your RIDEA investments at all? Jr.</strong> Well it obviously is possible that any of those – now any of those items could affect the RIDEA investments but remember that it’s an extremely small part of our overall portfolio.
The whole investment is 5% of our portfolio the return substantially less than that.
And that a 40% return that we are currently getting that’s substantially higher than what we all thought we would be getting when we originally did these investments.
Okay.
So let’s say if the rates were cut by 5% do you know how much that would cut the RIDEA rates by? Jr.</strong> I don’t have that information right now Mike.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
A few questions.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Mike.
Hey I guess going back to Tayo’s question about coverages I mean obviously the portfolio not every property have is that of 5 times coverage.
Some are significantly higher skewing that.
If you are looking at the bottom tier of the portfolio where the coverages are at the lowest under those scenarios I mean would they still fair pretty well in terms of? They really would Mike.
That’s what I was trying to show in the analysis that I gave.
We don’t give it for each individual property but showing you how the operators had done in my previous prepared remarks.
But of all of our coverage ratios I believe we have two properties and that’s a little bit of a mis-numbered.
Obviously Monroe is the lowest performing property but there are a couple of other properties that are – if you look at it from a standalone basis one of them doesn’t generate full coverage but the operator generates them as two.
And with the two of them combined they’re more than adequate coverage.
So there really isn’t the gap that your question implies.
Okay.
If we are looking at the supplemental on page eight where you’re talking about the $800 million of investment activity for the year I know it’s committed and some of it’s investment.
How much of that obviously the First Choice 100 of the commitment but how much of the other was that were versus commitment.
And when you’re thinking of guidance it’s safe to assume that $400 million is actual investments not commitments correct? Jr.</strong> Correct.
Yes that’s correct.
And Mike looking at the $800 million obviously you have the OakLeaf which is a development project you have the Ernest Spartanburg project which is a development project but that one is well through the process.
You’ve got Ernest Lafayette which is essentially complete and then you’ve got the post-acute which is another development project in Victoria and that one as well is well underway.
Okay.
Okay great.
And just I guess from income statement presentation standpoint the equity and earnings line isn’t there this quarter and understanding maybe in a couple of other lines.
So I was just wondering if you can give us a little more color on kind of what drove that and geographically where it’s showing up? Jr.</strong> Sure Mike.
Because of the way we structure our investment in these operating companies to give us a high degree of security and a preferred return our instruments are sometimes notes and then sometimes equity interest all of which we consider earnings from Opco.
So we record a portion for GAAP we record a portion of that return as interest and a portion as equity in earnings.
And that presentation in the condensed financial statements that accompany our press release becomes difficult to follow particularly when investors are trying to determine what our investment returns are.
So we have combined those lines for interest and other earnings in the press release but we clearly summarized the RIDEA type returns on a dollar basis in the supplemental and in fact it’s on that same page you just referred to in the supplemental.
Okay.
And in our SEC financial statements whether it would be 10-Q or the upcoming 10-K that allows us a little bit more flexibility and room for clear disclosures and reconciliations so you will see that when we file the SEC statements which normally you would see at this time.
Obviously there is no 10-Q with the fourth quarter.
Got it okay.
And just two other quick ones Steve when you were talking about before the $400 million of investments you said I think nothing before July 1.
That was just for a guidance that was just a comment about guidance right? That’s exactly right and I think everyone on this call understands the lumpiness of the acquisition process and it’s certainly not inconceivable that we don’t that we closed something before July 1.
Okay is anything imminent that it is likely you could close in Q1 or do you think we’re really looking to Q2 at this point? Yeah I don’t think anything closes in the next six weeks left in Q1.
Okay.
And last question here on I guess Twelve Oaks now.
Any – nothing is in guidance for the lease up of that correct? And when do you think it’s feasible to assume something comes back on line? Jr.</strong> Yeah that’s correct except for the 55% that is already leased in and is already operating.
You remember that we made the conscious decision not to lease up the other 45% because we believe and I think we are right after seeing the finished product they will get much better rental rates with having the leads entered in and having the project completed.
Now that that’s done our people have begun in Ernest to lease up the remaining floors.
We just – at this time don’t have guidance on when that but those numbers that 45% are not included in the guidance.
Okay.
Okay great thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil DeFelice from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
It’s Phil DeFelice for Todd Stender.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Phil.
Quick question on your two asset sales in the quarter would you mind disclosing your exit cap rates? Yeah I think Phil just to be absolutely accurate – you probably can go back to the third quarter disclosures and we gave those numbers in some detail and I frankly don’t have in front of me point being the exit cap rate was significantly below what we were earning and that’s the point we tried to make in the third quarter and then again in this quarter is – and by the way those were not our best properties by any means and so we weren’t cherry-picking the very best properties to sell.
Their moderate average properties that we generated substantial gain over and above not only our book value but what we paid for them seven years ago and that’s what resulted in the 15% IRR and again feel free to call me or Charles after this call and we’ll walk you through the third quarter disclosures.
Great thanks that’s helpful.
Do you happen to know off and what percentage of your current mortgage loan balance about $370 million is pre-payable? None of it.
None of it okay and what’s the current average duration on that investment book? Well again we can give you an accurate answer later but probably eight or nine years I would say would probably be the weighted average remaining term.
Great that’s all I had.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Phil.
Thank you.
The next question comes from line of Daniel Bernstein of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Dan.
Hi.
So on the acquisition pipeline are you looking at new operators and geographies as well? Jr.</strong> Yes absolutely.
You think you will have your operators come out of that? Jr.</strong> Yes.
Twelve Oaks what is the gross value of that property just trying to think off my head if you lease up the other 45% I don’t know we said 10% yield what kind of addition to your FFO run rate I can get to some – what is the gross value of those assets? Jr.</strong> Yeah we’re including all of the additions that we made to that property.
It’s about $55 million.
Okay thank you.
And then when I look at Prime Healthcare and I want to beat a dead horse here.
They have been in a number of these allegations in the past but they do seem to be targeted SEIU whoever.
Do you see that just the target of Prime as a risk to that tenant I know that’s good lease coverage but are you thinking about the risk to Prime itself given that these allegations keep popping up? Jr.</strong> Well Dan the exact same allegations they’re not as if they are keeping new allegations they are the same allegations.
All I can tell you is that every federal agency and federal component and state component that have looked at it to-date have all cleared Prime of these allegations.
When you go back to the okay why this keep coming up I think it’s very clear that it’s a fight between the SEIU union with Prime.
Prime is not the only hospital entity that has a fight with the SEIU in particular in California.
There are number of other REITs some hospitals – some nursing home operators that have had similar type fights with the SEIU.
Prime actually very recently entered into a very complementary large agreement with the other union always get the names confused but we all know that the SEIU wears the purple shirts and this other union wears red shirts.
Not affiliated with the Baltimore Ravens.
Jr.</strong> But so it’s not just a fight with the union it’s particularly just a fight with the SEIU.
Other than that – other than just looking at it historically now what’s happened Dan I don’t think what else I can say.
Is the healthcare workers at Prime unionized? Jr.</strong> Yes they are they are the – I wish I could just answer is it the NHW or something like that national healthcare workers union or something like that.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> See in that.
Okay I was just trying to understand the motive behind what’s going on there then in guidance again kind of rehashing it a little bit but if we took out the $400 million in acquisitions and any additional capital that you might assumed in there.
Has the guidance really change from the $108 million last quarter I mean is there anything that – that really change otherwise? Jr.</strong> No I think I’m following your question and the answer would be no I mean you stop right now we will be looking to that $108 million roughly.
Okay.
I just wanted to make sure that.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
There is nothing else that had changed in there.
I think that’s all for me.
I appreciate you taking my time.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Dan.
Thank you.
We now have no more questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the call back over to Ed Aldag.
Please go ahead.
Jr.
- Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Clinton.
And again we thank all of you for listening and we greatly appreciate your insightful questions and if you have any additional questions don't hesitate to call on Charles Steve or myself.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for joining today’s conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2011 Medical Properties Trust Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Aden.
I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Charles Lambert Director of Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our first quarter 2011 financial results.
With me today are Edward K Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by the Federal Securities Laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and no in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and thank all of you for listening in on today’s first quarter earnings release conference call.
We always appreciate your interest in Medical Properties Trust.
As each of you knows in April 2010 we recapitalized the balance sheet by adding equity paying off debt and increasing our credit facility.
Upon completion we had approximately $500 million in dry powder to make acquisitions.
We told the market at that time that it may take us until the end of 2011 to put that money to work and once again comfortably cover our dividend.
Earlier this year we exceeded our timing goal by putting to work approximately $400 million about three quarters sooner than expected and covering our dividend on a run rate basis.
Our acquisition opportunities continue to be strong.
So in the middle of the first quarter of this year we made the decision we were going to need more dry powder.
We began reviewing appropriate capital access avenues and we’re delighted to learn that we were going to be able to access the unsecured market at a time when long-term rates were at one of their historical loans.
Steve will go through this with you in more detail in few minutes.
But our unsecured bond issue along with improved credit facility has once again given us approximately $500 million of dry powder and just the first four months of this year we have invested approximately $175 million with another $75 million signed pending regulatory approval.
We feel very good about our pipeline and our ability to invest in a timely fashion.
Once this money is put to work we expect again to be in the high 90s on a per share basis for AFFO.
This unsecured debt offering adds another rung in our ladder of choices of capital alternatives.
This will greatly enhance our growth prospects as we move forward.
In a few moments Steve will give you the specifics of the impact to our earnings and balance sheet.
As we previously explained when discussing the performance of our portfolio it can often get a little confusing but we are in an acquisitions mode as we have been for the past year.
Due to the properties sold or loans repaid in 2010 and the investments made in 2010 and 2011 it is difficult to give you a same store comparison.
So please keep in mind that the numbers we are about to review are current portfolio numbers and includes some recently acquired properties that are still in their operational ramp up period.
All three of our main sectors continue to post strong coverages with the acute care hospital sector at about 6.85 times.
This number is down from the same period last year due primarily to the one-time California provider tax.
(Inaudible) actually we end up being a net beneficiary from the tax but there are timing issues with the tax being paid and additional reimbursement being received.
The LTACH sector at about 2.1 times and the impatient rehabilitation hospital facilities factor at about 3.2 times.
Because of the abnormality of the California provider tax issue just discussed and the addition of new properties still in the ramp up stage our portfolio overall saw a decline in overall EBITDAR coverage to about 5.35 times.
However when looking at the same store numbers only our facilities continue to track the national trend of improved operations specifically when you compare the properties that have been in our portfolio for at least 24 months we see increases in admissions of 7.4% discharges of 4.3% patient days of 2.8% ER visits of 8% and net revenue of 5.6%.
In the early part of the first quarter Monroe Hospital entered into an agreement with the Dominant Physician Group in Bloomington Indiana.
The agreement calls for various services to be performed by this Group along with moving their CT and MRI business to the Monroe Hospital.
Much of this is still in the process of being implemented.
However we are already seeing significant improvements in operations.
For example surgeries are up 42% from April ‘10 to April 2011 total revenue is up more than 10%.
We are so far very pleased with the direction of hospital.
River Oaks is well underway with its refurbishment efforts and we continue to be excited about the prospects for this facility in the future.
Our publically reporting tenants have all seen strong increases in net operating revenues admissions and EBITDA CHS HMA HealthSouth and RehabCare have all reported good results in each of these areas.
Back on the acquisitions front we invested in four properties during the first quarter and had entered into a binding agreement pending regulatory approval on a 5th.
Four of these properties are general acute care hospitals and one is in LTACH.
The weighted average going in cash cap rate is just over 10.5%.
With two of these properties we used our data type structure where in addition to the real estate we invested in operations.
We expect our returns on that portion of these two properties to significantly exceed the return on the real estate.
As we have stated before our risk is only up to the amount of our investment.
The annual revenue to MPT from these five properties not including any RIDEA participation is in excess of $25 million annually.
Prime Healthcare has once again been recognized for its quality patient care.
For second time now Prime’s West Anaheim Medical Center in Orange County has been named a top 100 hospital in the nation by Thomson Reuters.
In addition in April of this year HealthGrades’ identified the top 5% best performing hospitals in the area of emergency medicine.
Of the 31 California hospitals named eight are Prime hospitals.
In January of this year Governor Brown of California released his fiscal year state budget proposal which includes $1.7 billion in cuts to the Medi-Cal program.
While there is no assurance this cuts will actually happen our analysis assuming no adjustments in operations which I stated before as a bad assumption shows that our lease coverage for Prime’s hospitals would be reduced by only 30 basis points.
However it is important to note that the California Provider Tax for 2010 that I previously mentioned actually netted Prime a positive $27 million.
As most of you know our federal healthcare reimbursement system is moving to a quality care reward system.
All of our acute care hospitals participate in the IQR program and thus are not subjected to payment reductions for not reporting quality indicators.
The 2012 CMS proposed in-patient Medicare payment decreased 0.6% should have a negligible effect on our portfolio.
At this time I would like to ask Steve to review our financial performance.
Steve? Thanks Ed and good morning everyone.
As usual I’ll briefly run through the highlights of our first quarter 2011 financial results then describe our recently completed capitalization and finally discuss our outlook for future periods.
And we’ll open up the call for your questions.
For the first quarter of 2011 we reported normalized FFO of approximately $20.4 million and adjusted FFO of approximately $21.2 million or $0.18 and $0.19 per diluted share respectively.
This is consistent with our estimates that we discussed on the last call in January.
As a reminder we normalized FFO by adding back the amount of deal costs and in 2011’s first quarter these costs totaled $2 million or $0.02 per diluted share.
This represents about 1% of the purchase price of property acquisitions during the quarter.
Net income for the quarter ended March 31 was $10.8 million or $0.09 cents per diluted share compared with a net loss of $2.8 million or $0.04 per share for the year ago period which you’ll remember was affected by $12 million impairment charge.
In comparison of these results to those of the same period a year ago the per share amounts were affected by an increase in the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding to 110 million or the three months ended March 31 2011.
This is up from the 79 million shares for the same period in 2010 and is primarily due to the common stock offering of 29.9 million shares completed in April of last year.
Turning to recent capital activities Ed just mentioned then you’re all aware of the transactions we recently completed.
We amended our revolver by releasing collateral reducing the interest-rate risk by about 40 basis points and extending the term by two years to October 2015.
We have nine banks in the facility with existing commitments of $330 million and we have the option subject to market conditions to increase that to $400 million during the next 30 months at present there are no drawings on the facility.
We also issued $450 million in unsecured ten year notes at a fixed rate of 6.875% with proceeds from the note offering we repaid the $58 million balance on the old secured revolver approximately $148 million in a syndicated term loan and an $8 million bank loan.
So as of today we’ve approximately $720 million in total debt with maturities and fixed rates that are very attractive.
Details of our debt structure may be found in the supplemental information that we posted on the investor relation section of our website this morning.
As of today the company has approximately $550 million in available resources through cash balances and credit facilities for investments in new hospital real-estate.
We announced this morning the pending acquisition of the Hoboken University Medical Center.
The total investment for this transaction will approximate $75 million and will include 100% ownership of the real-estate which will be leased at a double-digit initial cap rate a secured working capital loan of up to $20 million and a $5 million convertible participating note.
In addition to this transaction we expect to complete a separate transaction soon that would also involve partial ownership in the lessee/operator.
When added to our Covington Hospital and Bucks County hospital we will have five RIDEA type investment two of these have profits participation in less than 10% of our tenants operations.
So they are not technically structured in accordance with RIDEA.
Moving to guidance.
Historically our policy has been not to provide estimates of future quarterly financial results.
We have provided estimates of annualized FFO based solely on assumptions about a specific portfolio and that’s what we have done again this quarter.
Based solely on the March 31 2011 portfolio plus the subsequent Hoboken acquisition and the April capital transactions we estimate that annualized normalized FFO per share would approximate between $0.67 and $0.71 per share and just to reiterate that’s upon closing of the Hoboken transaction which we anticipate will close sometime during 2011 third quarter.
In April of course we substantially modified the capital structure as we have already discussed.
So taking into account the new capital structure which is expected to provide at least $550 million in available resources and limiting our overall leverage to less than 50% we would expect to invest approximately $330 million in future quarters.
We believe the portfolio after such investments will generate normalized FFO of between $0.92 and $0.96 per share on an annualized basis once fully invested.
This estimate assumes that average initial yields on new investments will range from 9.75% to 10.5%.
We believe we will be able to complete these investments by the end of 2012.
These estimates do not include the effects if any of cost and litigation related to discontinued operations debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interested rate swaps write-offs of straight-line rent or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
They also do not include any earnings from the RIDEA type investments and operations and they do not include any revenue from releasing from our revokes River Oaks or from the Florence development now under construction.
In addition this estimate will change if $330 million in new acquisitions are not completed or such investments in initial yields are lower or higher than the range of 9.75% to 10.5% market interest rate change debt is refinanced assets are sold other operating expenses vary or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
Before we go to questions I want to inform you all about the timing of the filing of our first quarter 10-Q.
We’re considering the possibility of revisions to our previously reported depreciation and amortization expense.
The revisions would be related to only nine leases that we have treated as operating leases the earliest of which commenced in 2007.
And in fact we have previously sold two of the properties and leases on two more of the properties have been terminated.
We have recently determined that it is possible that these leases should be treated as direct financing leases instead of as operating leases.
Should we ultimately conclude that the lease classification should be different then what we have previously reported the revisions would result in decreases in depreciation and amortization expenses and offsetting increases to net income in the periods from 2007 through 2010 a further result would be an offsetting reduction in the gain on sale of our Centinela Hospital in 2010.
The net effect of these revisions would be to increase net income in 2007 through 2009 and would result in a decrease in gain on sale and net income in 2010.
In the aggregate we expect a net increase to net income would result if revisions are necessary.
These revisions are not expected to impact previously reported FFO cash flows or EBITDA previously paid and accrued incentive compensation has also not affected because such compensation is not based on net income but on FFO measures that excludes the effects of real estate depreciation and amortization.
Generally with respect to these leases the determination of operating versus direct financing lease hinges on whether the form of certain lessee guarantees is substandard.
The company has historically not included such non-substandard guarantees in the calculation.
From 2007 through 2010 two well-respected Big Four accounting firms have not determined differently.
Although we believe the revisions that we are evaluating are not material to investors who focus on FFO.
The process of completing the accounting and making amendments to previously filed financial statements is time consuming.
If we ultimately conclude that revisions are necessary we would expect to request a five day automatic extension to the time to file our first quarter 10-Q that would otherwise be filed by May 10.
Lastly this morning we posted to our website in the Investor Relations section supplemental information about our investments and capital structure.
This is the result of enquiries and request that we had received recently for such a package and Charles and I are happy to take your calls about the information in the package and we would welcome suggestions for making the information even more helpful.
That concludes our remarks for today.
I will turn the call back to the operator and he will open it up for any questions that you may have.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Please proceed sir.
Hi good morning.
It’s Ralph Davies on the line with Mike.
I was wondering could you quantify the size of the RIDEA component of the investments that you’ve made.
The Bucks County is a RIDEA type facility that’s approximately $40 million investment I believe.
The Covington transaction is the first true idea structured transaction that’s approximately a $15ish million investment.
We actually have an 18% ownership in the in the lessee.
The recent transaction we did last quarter Corinth Atrium is also a RIDEA-type.
We own 9.9% of the lessee.
That is a total investment of about $30 million.
The Hoboken transaction is also RIDEA structured.
The total transaction cost there is $75 million and whatever left out.
But Ralph let me – I want to clarify that the numbers that Steve’s given is the total investment there not just the RIDEA portion.
He gave you the breakdown on the Hoboken a minute ago and you saw that the real estate portion there was 50 million working capital was 20 million and the convertible note for 5 million.
So if you want that exact detail of the RIDEA section you can call Steve offline and he will give that to you.
Okay.
Okay got it.
And then just for an update I know in previous quarters you’ve talked about I think some swaps that you’re putting in place on the back half of this year that result in interest savings.
I’m just wondering to the recent capital markets activities that you guys have executed has that change that or are those still very much going to be coming into place over the remainder of the year? No it doesn’t change at all Ralph.
It’s $125 million of senior unsecured notes that convert from fixed to floating later this summer and so we have already swapped that floater for a fixed at about an average 5.5% fixed rate for the next five years.
Okay great.
And then finally obviously a very different asset all together but you did see on the back of some of the news regarding (inaudible) earlier this week you saw the operators sell off pretty hard.
And I’m just wondering recognizing very different reimbursement regime that you guys deal with but do you think that there is any potential flow through in terms of your exposure to some of these operators? And do you think it will impact transactional market at all in terms of maybe operators less interested in selling their real estate? Well Ralph we don’t’ have any the operators that are heavily involved in the skill nursing industry.
As you know we don’t have any of that in our portfolio and never have.
So I don’t see that any negative effect that those operators are going have any negative effect to our portfolio or to any of our operators all which is why we’ve been saying that weren’t comfortable investing in that.
I don’t think it’s going to have an effect on whether or not our hospital operators will continue to sell their real estate or not.
Okay.
I mean I was just thinking in terms of RehabCare specifically that I think they did so off? Well Ralph I think several of them sold off and one reason for that maybe that their coverages are so much lower than ours.
If you’re talking upwards of an 11% cut from CMS when the skilled nursing facilities are generating lower low one times coverage 1.25 quarter times coverage in many case.
You can see how that could be frightening.
Just keep in mind our upwards of almost 5.5 times coverage.
Got it.
But that again the main point is it doesn’t affect the hospital business.
Okay got it.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hi it’s Sohel Amir for Tayo actually.
Just a quick question.
Is there any way you can quantify the exposure to Medicare Medicaid and Private Payer sources? It is generally the same that it has been throughout our portfolio.
It is roughly 50% Medicare roughly 40% Private Pay commercial insurance and roughly 10% from Medicaid or Medicare type reimbursement.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
That’s it from me.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeffery Doctrow from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed.
Hi it’s Jerry Doctrow okay.
Just a couple of things I think Steve the one you were trying to think about on the RIDEA was Monroe.
Is that sort of a RIDEA structure as well? No not at all Jerry.
That’s actually straight lease.
Now we do have embedded in that at least percentage rents but we are certainly not accruing or at least we are not recognizing percentage rents.
So when you mentioned RIDEA or RIDEA-like Hoboken Bucks Covington Corinth.
What was your other one? We had Shasta which is...
That’s a good point.
Hoboken Bucks Covington Atrium was the...
Yeah Jerry it’s the one that I mentioned in my prepared remarks is pending.
Okay.
Okay.
And just I wanted to just understand that a little bit better.
So it was something like Hoboken that you’re about to do with this structure.
Can you tell me a little bit about sort of the tenant or the partner there? So who – what’s HUMC Hold Co.? Is it just sort of LLC that’s relatively thinly capitalized or is there a deeper pocket operator there? And just how do you think about that risk in structuring that investment a little bit? Yes good question.
And let me just give a little perspective about our RIDEA type deal deposit because it’s really a lot different than what you see over in the assisted-living and another senior housing sector.
We don’t acquire the operations when we do our RIDEA deal it is on top over and above our standard leases.
The first thing we do is get a market-rate lease very high-yielding lease again for example on Hoboken.
That’s a double-digit lease at hospital that we are very excited about acquiring.
Now in addition we have an interest in the operator in the case of Hoboken it’s a convertible participating loan $5 million that basically gives us in this case 25% of the earnings of the lessee.
And so we are limited in our risk with respect to that to the $5 million investment in the convert.
We are not responsible for operating the hospital; we are not responsible for funding the hospital.
That’s not to say that the hospital couldn’t do quarterly and we’re subject to risk of loss of that investment.
Obviously we do a lot of underwriting and we don’t expect that to happen.
This particular operator is an affiliate of the operator of the Bayonne Medical Center which we announced I think in February of this year about a $58 million transaction that hospital is doing exceptionally well.
They have brought together a very strong management team that has demonstrated at least through Bayonne and appears to be in Hoboken of being able to take previously not so profit hospitals and turn them around and that’s exactly what we expect to see on Hoboken.
Now Hoboken in Bayonne will be to a certain extent cross-collateralized.
And so while Hoboken is a new entity again we have fair amount of cross-collateralization and cross-default provisions against the very very profitable Bayonne Medical Center.
Okay.
And is there anything in terms of security deposits so that’s sort of thing that you know in addition or it’s mostly the cross-default that would be added? Yes there are one year letters of credit at both facilities.
Certainly the working capital loan we made is secured by receivables equipment in everything.
And then like I say we’ve got the cross-default provision cross-collateralization that is with the two facilities.
Okay.
And that structure where you got an entity that may be relatively young but it’s got some track record and that structure would sort of be typical for the types of deals you might be doing go forward? No not necessarily Covington of course we did with affiliates of Vibra.
The reason we’ll do these is because we have something to bring to the operator just a Covington for example you remember Covington was owned by company that went into bankruptcy.
And so we recaptured our Covington hospitals very profitable remained profitable all the way through bankruptcy we collected all of our rents.
But because the parent was in bankruptcy that was default and we recaptured it.
So now we have a Hospital that’s very profitable that we didn’t operate before and so we evaluated the number of operators including affiliates of Vibra who we ultimately decided on because we have something to deliver something to value.
First of all we restructured our lease we got improved economics on the lease and then we required that the operator recognize that we were bringing value and we negotiated what that value was and we ended up with 18% of the operations because we were able to bring a very attractive transaction to the operator.
So it’s not always going to be within lead capitalist new operators.
Okay.
And just two things any risk that having been through some of these restructuring – restatements before any chance that the 10-Q is delayed further or do you think it’s just within that five year period or five day period? We were doing five years that we think is the five days I mean it’s just a lot of number trenching.
And again we haven’t concluded as it is necessary but we just didn’t feel like we should get off this call without alerting people to the possibility that there would be a delay.
I appreciate that.
And then just last thing I mean one other thing that’s been talked about being on the fed’s target list is provider tax.
So if the feds were to do away with that gimmick if you will or procedure does that create some risks since it’s a big benefit to Prime? Well I don’t think so Jerry that – it’s a part of their overall income it’s not that bigger piece and it’s only been there one year and they were very profitable part of that.
Okay right great.
That’s all from me.
Thanks.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Grant from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
At the outset you mentioned there were lots of moving parts with the company’s income statement and balance sheet and the future operations outlook certainly includes quite a number of pro forma adjustments.
So I’m wondering when do you think you’ll be in a position to raise the common dividend.
Thanks.
Yeah.
The goal BG there is get back to 75% to 80% payout on a consistent basis that that’s based on AFFO.
And again with the type of that acquisition velocity that we’ve got with the relatively low cost of capital that we find ourselves with at least relative to recent periods.
We’re very hopeful that we will achieve that payout ratio sooner than later.
So what does that mean? Well we can’t predict from quarter-to-quarter.
We never have what earnings would be.
We think we’re going to get to 75% to 80% payout soon and when we do I believe that Board will again considering dividend increases.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Thank you all for listening in today and your interest.
And as always if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call myself Steve or Charles.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentleman and welcome to the second quarter 2011 Medical Properties Trust earnings conference call.
My name is Brian and I’ll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all attendee lines are muted and in listen-only mode and we will be facilitating a question-and-answer session at the end of today’s remarks.
(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like now introduce to you Mr.
Charles Lambert Director of Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our second quarter 2011 financial results.
With me today are Edward K Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by the Federal Securities Laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.</strong> Charles thank you and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today’s call.
This is a good time for Medical Properties Trust.
Our portfolio continues to generate some of the highest EBITDAR lease coverages in the industry the reimbursement environment continues to be favorable for our portfolio.
Our capital structure and access to capital are better than they have ever been and our opportunities for further growth continue to exceed our expectations.
First let me turn to our portfolio.
As I mentioned on the last call with the number of facilities we’ve acquired over the last twelve months some of our newer properties are still in the ramp up stage and are thus lowering our overall coverage artificially when compared to some of our mature properties.
For example Alvarado has only been in our portfolio for approximately five months and Prime is still installing their systems.
That property generates EBITDAR lease coverage ratio of about two and half times which is well below Prime’s average of more than five and half times but still a very strong coverage.
When comparing trailing 12 months ending 5/31/11 versus 5/31/10 the acute care hospitals in our portfolio had EBITDAR lease coverage of approximately six and half times which was a slight decline of about 30 basis points.
This is primarily due to some softening in admissions which was consistent with other hospitals across the country.
However when looking at same-store comparisons discharges ER visits and net revenue were all up in our facilities.
Our LTACHs and inpatient rehabilitation facilities were both essentially flat to slightly up with strong coverages of about 2.1 and 3.2 times respectively.
We have no standalone skilled nursing facilities in our portfolio and very few total [stiff] beds.
Thus our portfolio of properties will not suffer from any ill effects of the CMS cut to the nursing home reimbursement rates.
As you probably know CMS has now released the final fiscal year 2012 rates for acute care hospitals at approximately 1.1% increase and LTACH at approximately 2.5% increase and ours at approximate 2.2% increase.
Just to show you how strong our coverages are assume that our acute care hospitals had their Medicare rates cut 11% and there were no operating adjustments made by our operators which I have said before is a really bad assumption but a very conservative one.
Our coverage would decline by approximately 100 basis points to about 5.5 times EBITDAR coverage still an extremely strong coverage.
Year-to-date for 2011 we have closed on 268 million of new investments including the one facility that is waiting regulatory approval which Steve will discuss in little more detail.
We still expect the net number to exceed $350 million by year-end.
The opportunities we expect to acquire is spread fairly evenly over our current property type and are predominantly with new clients.
Shortly after the close of the second quarter we acquired a 40-bed LTACH in the DeSoto Texas just out of Dallas operated by Barbara.
In this investment we not only did a traditional sale-lease back with market rates in terms on the real estate but we also took an ownership interest of 25% in the operations for an additional $2.5 million.
During the second quarter we finalized unsecured credit facility and issued $450 million ten-year unsecured bonds with a coupon of under 7%.
In July we purchased $69.5 million of our 9.25% convertible notes.
Steve will go through these in more detail with you in his financial report.
Steve? Thanks Ed and good morning.
I will briefly run through the highlights of our second quarter 2011 financial results and then describe our outlook for future periods and then open up the call for any questions.
For the first quarter of 2011 we reported normalized FFO of approximately $17.5 million and AFFO of approximately $17.8 million or $0.16 per diluted share for both measures.
As at the end of last quarter we had estimated on a quarterly basis our in-place AFFO run rate to $0.17 to $0.18 per share.
But that estimate included revenue form our previously announced Hoboken investment.
Though Hoboken is not yet closed this quarter $0.16 per share is well in line with our run rate estimate.
As a reminder we normalize FFO by adding back the amount of deal cost and in 2011 second quarter the cost totaled $616 000 or about half a penny.
Also in this quarter we added back approximately $2.4 million in charges related to our reassessment of our [Denim Spring] investment which I’ll discuss in few minutes.
Finally we added back $3.8 million in charges related to the completion of our refinancing early in the second quarter.
Net income for the quarter ended June 30 was $2.6 million or $0.02 per diluted share compared with net income of $6.2 million or $0.06 per share in the year ago period.
Net income in 2011 quarter was affected by the [Denim Spring] charges and the cost of debt refinancing.
In comparisons of these results to those of the same period a year ago the per share amount was affected by an increase in the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding to 111 million for the three months ended June 30 2011.
This is up from 103 million shares for the same period in 2010 and is primarily due to common stock offering of 29.9 million shares completed in April of last year.
Turning to recent capital activity as you all aware we completed the refinancing of much of our balance sheet early in the quarter and have previously described in detail those transactions.
We will be happy to address any question about those transactions during our Q&amp;A in a few minutes.
In June we launched a tender offer any and all of the outstanding 9.25% exchangeable notes that are due in March of 2013.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we completed that offering and acquired about 85% or $69.5 million face value of those notes.
We will recognize a charge in the third quarter for early payment those notes approximating $10 million.
This morning we posted to our website a supplement information package that includes a summary of debt as of June 30 2011.
Other than the reduction of $69.5 million in the 9.25% notes that schedule remains materially accurate as of today.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago we routinely assess our investment for indication of impairment.
In the 2011 second quarter we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would not receive all of the amounts to us from our tenant at the [Denem Spring] LTACH.
We established reserves for approximately $1.8 million in outstanding receivables and recorded real estate impairment of approximately 564 000.
This hospital continues to operate and we believe there are opportunities for improved operations and profitability and we have not terminated at least and have no immediate plans to do so.
However we will discontinue rent accruals.
Just to remind you all Denim was part of two-property transaction that included our successful Covington Hospital.
When we recaptured these assets from the bankrupt parent of our tenant we recovered value that was substantially higher than our investment in Covington.
And today as a result we own 18% of that operating entity that we did not own originally.
Accordingly and consistent with our underwriting assumptions and our initial diligence we have protected the value of our initial investment in these two hospitals even though the accounting rules required that we now treat the hospital separately and prohibit us from recognizing the incremental Covington value that we have acquired.
Moving to guidance historically our policy has been not to provide estimates of future quarterly financial results.
We have provided estimates of annualized FFO based solely on assumptions about a specific portfolio and that’s what we have done again this quarter.
Based solely on the June 30 2011 portfolio plus the anticipated Hoboken acquisition the recently completed DeSoto transaction and the effects of the completed tender offer we estimate that annualized normalized FFO would approximate $0.72 to $0.76 per share.
And to reiterate that’s upon closing of the Hoboken transaction which we continue to anticipate will close during 2011 third quarter.
So taking into account the currently existing capital structure which is expected to provide at least $370 million in available liquidity and limiting our overall leverage to less than approximately 50% we would expect to invest approximately $325 million in future quarters.
We believe the portfolio after such investments will generate normalized FFO between $0.93 and $0.97 per share on an annualized basis once fully invested.
This estimate assumes that average initial yields on new investments will range from 9.75% to 10.5% We continue to believe that we are able to complete these investment by the end of 2012.
These estimates do not include the effects if any of cost and litigation related to discontinued operations debt refinancing costs real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs straight-line rent or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
They also do not include any earnings from the RIDEA-type investments and operations and they do not include any revenue from releasing our River Oaks or from the Florence development.
In addition this estimate will change if $325 million in new acquisitions are not completed or such investments initial yields are lower or higher in the range of 9.75% to 10.5% market rate change debt is refinanced assets are sold or other operating expenses vary or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
I will now turn the call back to the operator and he will open it up for any questions that you may have.
Hi guys this is Austin Wurschmidt here.
You had mentioned that you expect to exceed your $350 million of investments this year.
What should we expect on the timing and do you have anything under contract today? Austin as you know we have not historically given what we expect of the timing because very sudden the things happen to exactly when we expect they will.
We expect that will happen before year-end.
And we do have properties under letters of intent but not in a formal contract stage at this point.
That’s helpful.
Given kind of what’s going on with healthcare spending time being a target for future deficit reductions have you seen any delays in investment decisions or any increases in hospital cap rate? Yeah Austin we haven’t seen any delays in the acute care or rehab investment decisions being made and we haven’t really seen any changes in hospital cap rates from where we’ve been pretty much throughout the year which has been a pretty widespread depending on the strength of the operator ranging basically anywhere from the low lines all the way up to 12 that’s a very widespread but every operator is not created equally.
Thank you.
And should we assume kind of then what you have coming for the remainder of the year to kind of be in that same band that you provided in your press release of high 9% to….
Yes we expect so.
Okay thank you.
And then just lastly could you give us an update on the situation with Prime? What situation would that be Austin? Related to the billings? You’ll have to expand on your question specifically.
Prime wasn’t previously under investigation for the billings under Medicare I believe in California and I was just curious if there are any updates you can provide? Austin Prime has not been under any investigation for any billings to our knowledge or to anyone’s knowledge that they’ve been able to show us anything differently than the article written by the California Watch with the SEIU.
We have worked with Prime in reviewing that particular article as you know Prime has recently acquired not with us but through their not-for-profit arm another hospital.
It was approved by the Justice Department and approved by the State of California and if Prime were under investigation for those types of actions I doubt that would have been approved for that additional acquisition.
Okay thank you.
Hey good morning guys.
It is actually Joe Dazio here.
A quick question on the run rate guidance does that include the potential dispositions that you outlined I think there was $37 million of assets at books value that you noted in the press release that tenants were looking for potential repurchase so I just wanted some clarification there? Yes it does.
Hi guys its Austin here again.
Could you just give us some update on the you had previously talked about some single tenant looking at your River Oaks hospital and could you just give us some update on the timing of when you expect lease could commence there and what kind of demand you are getting? Yeah Austin we are getting a tremendous amount of demand from the multi-tenant which what we had originally expected which would probably be a combination of our surgery center and LTACH beds.
We have had some interest from a single tenant; they are interested the timing probably won’t work for us and so it looks like we are on-track for the original schedule which is late at the end of this year early part of next year.
Ryan thank you very much and again thank you all of you for listening today.
If you have any further questions please don’t hesitate to call myself Steve Hamner or Charles Lambert.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Medical Properties Trust Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Pamela and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Charles Lambert Director of Finance.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our third quarter 2011 financial results.
With me today are Edward Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we’re hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of the call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by the Federal Securities Laws the company does not undertake a duty to update such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
A year ago during our 2010 third quarter earnings call we announced that we expected to do at least $300 million in acquisitions in 2011.
With today’s announcement I’m pleased to report that thus far our total year-to-date acquisitions has reached $311.5 million.
We closed two new properties during the third quarter an $18 million investment in an LTACH in DeSoto Texas in the Dallas area and an almost $13.5 million investment in an LTACH in New Braunfels Texas near Austin.
In both of these properties not only did we purchase the real estate in traditional sale and leaseback transactions with our normal rates and terms but we also utilized our idea structure to make investments in the operating entities as well.
Investments like this give us the opportunity to enhance our overall portfolio of return without changing our risk profile.
Steve will go through this in more detail with you in a few moments.
The DeSoto LTACH will be operated by Vibra while the New Braunfels facility will be operated by Post Acute.
In addition to those two properties we’ve made two more acquisitions shortly after the close of the third quarter.
Both transactions add to our growing diversity in terms of geography and types of facilities.
One was a portfolio of three acute care hospitals with an emergency room focus to be developed in the San Antonio area.
These properties are being developed by a company in Houston named Emerus which is new to the MPT portfolio and are being operated through a joint venture between Emerus and Vanguard a publicly traded national hospital operating company.
Our total investment in these three facilities is approximately $30 million.
In addition to the Emerus properties we closed on our Hoboken acquisition late last week with a total $75 million investment.
This facility is a general acute care hospital in Hoboken New Jersey and will be operated by an affiliate of the same group that operates our Bayonne New Jersey hospital.
The Hoboken facility is structured as a traditional sale and leaseback transaction with our normal rates and terms with an additional MPT RIDEA investment in the operations.
Again Steve will go over this in more detail with you in a few moments.
With the inclusion of these most recent acquisitions we have further improved our diversification in every respect.
Our largest tenant now represents about 26.9% of our investments.
Our largest investment by state California is now reduced to approximately 28.5%.
And our largest property represents only 5.6% of our total portfolio.
We continue to feel very good about our overall acquisitions pipeline and strategy.
To that end we have added Frank Williams a seasoned Wall Street healthcare investment banker as our Senior Managing Director of Acquisitions to augment the efforts of our existing team led by Maurice Arbelaez a seasoned healthcare operator.
The two disciplines of healthcare operations combined with healthcare finance have always been the signature strength of MPT.
Despite the fact that the third quarter is almost always the weakest quarter in healthcare operations our entire portfolio saw increases in EBITDAR coverage on a trailing 12-month basis third quarter over second quarter.
This was also despite the fact that there were some pockets of declines in California and a couple of the more rural hospitals in the East Coast.
On a trailing 12-month basis third quarter over second quarter our acute care hospitals increased their EBITDAR coverage by 16 basis points to 7.94 times.
And just to clarify we show EBITDAR coverage which is after management fees.
Our LTACH saw an increase in their coverage of 5 basis points and our IRFs saw an increase of 4 basis points.
Year-over-year each sector also saw an increase on a trailing 12-month basis third quarter over third quarter.
The acute care hospitals saw an increase of 4 basis points to 7.94 times.
The LTACHs an increase of 38 basis points to 2.52 times and the IRFs an increase of 22 basis points to 3.42 times.
At Monroe we also continue to see significant improvement with hospital generating positive EBITDAR in 10 of the last 12 months compared to just four months of the prior 12-month period.
At River Oaks we negotiated a favorable final financial settlement with the insurance companies for our damage caused by Hurricane Ike.
Due to the interest in the facility we have significantly added to the renovations which will make this facility one of the nicest facilities in Houston.
Completion is now scheduled in phases beginning in summer of 2012 running through the end of 2012.
I would now like to ask Steve to give you some more color on the financial performance of the company.
Steve? Thanks Ed and good morning everyone.
I’ll briefly run through the highlights of our third quarter 2011 financial results then describe our outlook for future periods and then we’ll open up the call for your questions.
For the third quarter of 2011 we reported normalized FFO of approximately $19.5 million and adjusted FFO of approximately $19.8 million or $0.18 per diluted share for both measures.
As of the end of last quarter we had estimated on a quarterly basis our in-place normalized FFO run rate at $0.18 to $0.19 per share.
But that estimate included revenue from our previously announced Hoboken investment.
Because Hoboken did not close until last Friday this quarter’s $0.18 per share is well in line with our run rate estimate.
As a reminder we normalized FFO by adding back the amount of deal cost.
And in 2011’s third quarter these costs totaled $529 000 or about half a penny per share.
Also in this quarter we added back approximately $10.4 million in cost to repurchase 87% of our 2013 exchangeable notes during the quarter.
Net income for the quarter ended September 30 was $425 000 less than a penny per share compared with net income of $8.9 million or $0.08 per share for the year ago period.
Net income in 2011 was again affected by the $10.4 million in cost related to the repurchase of exchangeable notes.
Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding for the third quarter of 2011 was 110.719 million shares.
As we just mentioned during the quarter we’ve completed a tender offer for any and all of our outstanding 9.25% exchangeable notes that are otherwise due in March of 2013 and we acquired about 87% or $71 million in face value of those notes.
The $10.4 million premium we paid to acquire these notes results in the avoidance of approximately $11 million in interest payments through maturity and the avoidance of any dilution that may have resulted from conversion of the debt to common shares at approximately $12.36 per share.
This morning we posted to our website a supplemental information package that includes a summary of debt as of September 30 2011.
That schedule remains materially unchanged today with the exception that late last week we borrowed $50 million under our revolver to finance the Hoboken transaction.
Moreover we expect to pay $9.1 million later in November to repay the balance of our 2011 6.125% exchangeable notes.
Most of you will remember that in late June of 2010 we restarted our acquisitions activity after a year and a half of dormancy due to the global financial crisis.
Since that time about 15 months ago we have committed approximately $500 million in healthcare real estate that is now under long-term lease including about $60 million under development at September 30.
The weighted average initial year lease rate on these investments is well within our guidance target of between 9.75% and 10.5% with a few outliers on both ends of that scale.
As Ed mentioned earlier we continue to successfully diversify our portfolio from tenant and geographic perspective as less than 25% of our investments since 2010 were related to Prime or Vibra.
We expect to make future investments with both of these top operators but also expect to see further diversification over time.
In addition four of the 18 properties that we acquired since 2010 include arrangements that provide for MPT to own certain interests of between 9.9% and 25% of the operations of (inaudible).
Our aggregate investment for this interest is approximately $10.2 million and we underwrite these investments to provide returns in the 20% plus range once the facilities are opened and stabilized.
Moving to guidance.
Historically our policy has been not to provide estimates of future quarterly financial results.
We have provided estimates of annualized FFO based solely on assumptions about a specific portfolio and that’s what we have done again this quarter.
Based solely on the September 30 2011 portfolio plus the Hoboken transaction and as if our Florence development project was complete which we expect to be in the first quarter 2012 we estimate that annualized normalized FFO would approximate $0.76 to $0.80 per share.
So taking into account the currently existing capital structure which is expected to provide at least $330 million in available liquidity and limiting our overall leverage to less than approximately 50% we would expect to invest approximately $275 million in future quarters.
We believe the portfolio after such investments will generate normalized FFO of between $0.93 and $0.97 per share on an annualized basis once fully invested.
This estimate continues to assume that average initial yields on the new investments will range from 9.75% to 10.5%.
And we continue to believe we are able to complete these transactions before the end of 2012.
These estimates did not include the effects if any of cost and litigation related to discontinued operations debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight-line rent or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
They also do not include any earnings from the RIDEA-type transactions and investments that we mentioned earlier.
And they do not include any revenue from releasing our River Oaks property.
In addition this estimate will change if $275 million in new acquisitions are not completed or such investments’ initial yields are lower or higher than the range of 9.75% to 10.5%.
If market interest rates change debt is refinanced assets are sold or other operating expenses vary or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
I will now turn the call back to the operator and she will open it up for any questions that you may have.
Operator?  (Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Just a couple of questions.
In regards to the normalized guidance range the $0.93 to $0.97.
When you take a look at your acquisition pipeline today on the $275 million that’s built into that number how quickly do you actually think you might be able to get there? Are we talking a year out or we talking 18 months out? Well actually what we’ve said I think is that we’re highly confident we’ll have that done by the end of 2012.
But if you go back again and look at when we restarted our acquisition activity in June of 2010 we’ve done about $100 million per quarter on average.
And so if you expect as we have some level of confidence that we will retain that investment level velocity then the hope would be that it would be actually before the end of 2012.
Got it.
Okay.
And then the second question I know you guys don’t have a lot of leases rolling over in ‘11 or ‘12 but all the public hospital operators this quarter were all basically talking about a weaker volumes outlook.
I’m curious how that’s impacting your business number one.
And then number two just kind of given that backdrop why you feel it’s the right time to kind of have these TRS-type structures with these new acquisitions that you made? Is there anything different about those particular operators just kind of given the overall industry feel of weaker admission volume? Well Tayo the weaker admissions that you’re referring to is not universal.
All of the publicly reporting operators out there have not seen weaker admissions.
We feel very good about where all of our hospital operators are.
As I said earlier they all have had improvement in their EBITDAR.
They’ve had improvement in their utilization with the exception of a couple of pockets in California and a couple of rural areas.
But overall we feel very good about a lot of the low hanging fruit that’s out there and some hospitals that we’ve made these investments in where we believe that the operators that have been operating them have left a lot of low hanging fruit on the table.
Okay.
And so we believe that these investments will prove to be very strong for us.
Okay.
Tayo to address the first part of your question we really have less than a handful of leases maturing in the next 24 months.
I think we’ve announced that two of those we expect to result in repurchases at certainly no loss to us.
And one of the others has recently notified us that they intend to extend.
So we really have a very limited exposure to rollover risk in the near future.
Okay.
That context was very helpful.
Thank you very much.
And your next question comes from the line of Jerry Doctrow of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed.
Nicolaus</strong> So just a couple of things I guess and I apologize because I haven’t really spent much time this morning...
(Operator Instructions) Nicolaus</strong> Hello? And please continue Mr.
Doctrow.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
Sorry.
So I haven’t digested your balance sheet but I kind of wanted to go back given your projected acquisition levels and that sort of thing how are you thinking about accessing additional capital sort of outside the debt markets as you go forward? So are we thinking another convert? Are we thinking common equity unsecured? Just you gave some guidance that you want to be 50-50 debt-to-equity and I was just thinking about talking about the $275 million kind of target level maybe even what’s the assumption in your guidance about accessing the capital markets? Well the assumption in the near term with respect to that $275 million is we have the capital.
And that does get us to kind of what we think is as a soft ceiling of 50%.
Actually we have always operated traditionally operated at significantly below that in the low 40s and that’s our intent in the future.
With respect to the next tranche of capital that we get there are alternatives to common equity that will be available or not at the time we need that.
These include sales of properties secured debt and you mentioned converts although we’ve got no plans at this time to get back into the convert arena.
It’s really it’s hard to answer until you get to the point where you actually go out and start planning to raise the capital and at that time of the market determines to a great extent what’s available to you.
Jerry the good news is that we have all of these avenues available to us now.
We all know that the markets have very narrow windows right now.
So when we get ready at that particular point we’ll analyze exactly where we are and choose the right one.
Nicolaus</strong> So in terms of funding the $275 million it’s base cash on hand and use of the line as well as I know you said you got some asset sales perhaps coming.
So that gets you there.
And then you would see what’s available when as you kind of go forward.
Is that...
That’s correct.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
That’s right.
And keep in mind although I’ll reiterate we don’t have any plans at this time for anything specific.
We are continuing to invest at an average initial yield in excess of 10%.
So it gives us perhaps more flexibility when you start talking about common or other types of equity than if we were investing at significantly lower rates.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And when you give your $0.90 whatever it was $0.93 $0.97 is that assuming basically that everything stays on the line so that if it was refinanced either termed out of the debt or equity the numbers would change from that level? No it assumes the current line rate.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay okay.
And Steve one of the things you didn’t mention was just term unsecured debt so you would probably do – on the – in terms of terming out the debt you would more likely be with a kind of a bank term loan or some sort of secured term loan rather than trying unsecured? No.
I didn’t mean to imply that because actually right now with the exception of the revolvers we’re completely unsecured.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And that again depending on the markets which happen right now to be fairly widely open for additional unsecured if we wanted to go that route.
The exception would be if we actually termed it out with what I’m really thinking as secured would be mortgage debt.
And there are growing opportunities and a growing market for that.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And then let’s see the only other thing I guess just wanted to ask a little bit broader question about sort of reimbursement obviously we’re kind of a week 10 days away from the Joint Select Committee doing or not doing recommendations.
We’re starting to see a little bit more chatter in the newsletters about them particularly acting.
So as your pricing deal is today I mean what are you sort of thinking about in terms of the reimbursement environment? Is your sense just you’re getting enough lease coverage that whatever happens you guys can absorb? Or how are you thinking about that or are you waiting maybe till you get a little bit more clarity at least at a Congress here at year end before committing more capital? I don’t think we’ll have any more clarity out by year end Jerry than we have right now.
We feel very comfortable overall where we are in our particular properties.
In the acute care hospital we went through this earlier in the summer what it would look like.
If we had a 10% cut in our Medicare reimbursements and all these assume that our operators don’t make any adjustments.
And you’re right we feel very good about the coverage of our current portfolio.
So what are we doing on a going forward basis? On a going forward basis we’re assuming that we’re not going to have any increases that in some instances we’re assuming as much as a 5% decrease and still getting comfortable with our underwriting at that particular point.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
And for some of the ones like Hoboken where they might be more exposed to disproportionate share or the medical education or some of those other things that are kind of (inaudible) about.
Even there you don’t think you’ve got any real concerns on the reimbursement side? No.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
All right that’s all from me.
Thanks.
Thanks Jerry.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thanks.
A couple of things.
First of all can you walk through the timeline for some of the developments? I think you mentioned Florence coming online in the first quarter.
But the ones you announced today when should we expect to see them begin to either break ground come online impact earnings? Sure.
Well they’re in the process of breaking ground now Mike.
But they’ll take approximately 14 months to complete.
Okay.
Okay great.
And then with respect to the RIDEA investments is any of that income flowing through the income statement today? There is immaterial amount for our first two RIDEA-type investments.
Those were Covington and Bucks.
But other than that truly immaterial amount.
There’s nothing in the income statement for the operating income today.
Okay.
And how should we think about the thresholds for what has to happen before you start to recognize that income? Well...
I’m sure it probably varies by deals so.
It does.
It varies by deal to some extent.
For example Bucks truly does have thresholds and ceilings.
The others in each case the other five I think we have percentages of 9.9% to 25%.
There are no thresholds.
We participate to the extent of our ownership interest in dollar one of profitability.
Okay.
And then last question following up on Jerry’s question going back to the $0.93 to $0.97 guidance after $275 million in investments.
When you hit that 50% threshold is it ideally the plan to kind of pull it back down to that 40% range where you’re a little more comfortable? Or you’re – it sounds like you’re comfortable for running at 50% is a plan to stay up around 50%.
No we are comfortable at 50%.
We’re highly comfortable.
But that being said our plan is to operate it in kind of our traditional range which is low to mid 40s.
There’ll be no immediate urgent requirement for us to get it below 50%.
So we’ll be able to select the market at the right time.
But we don’t intend to start growing the leverage level.
Okay.
From what’s traditionally we’ve had.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Frank Morgan of RBC Capital.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
First on the use of RIDEA is that more – does that help you win deals or is that something you want to do because you see the opportunity of catching the upside in the operations? That would be my first question.
It’s the latter Frank.
It’s not helping us win deals.
It’s not prohibiting us from getting deals.
I know you haven’t been with us from the very beginning but combining the operations and the real estate have been part of the MPT story since the very beginning and RIDEA just lets us do that a lot easier.
I got you.
And then secondly I was interested in your new relationship you got with Vanguard.
I was just hoping you could expand on that.
Are there other opportunities that you can pursue with them in some of their other markets or do you think this is more of a one-off? Thanks.
Right now it’s probably more of a one-off.
It’s a joint venture and our relationship is primarily with the Emerus Group which has the relationship with Vanguard.
Okay.
Thank you.
Operator? Yes Mr.
Morgan your line is open.
My questions were answered.
Thanks.
All right.
Great.
Any more questions operator? Ms.
Ford your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hey Karin.
Just a clarification on River Oaks does it sound like rent will now start flowing there starting either in the summer or towards the end of 2012 versus sort of the beginning of 2012 previously because you added to the renovation? That’s correct.
In the summer of 2012 now we’ve made a decision with one of our new tenants there to totally renovate to totally gut and renovate the operating floor the Ors.
And so that’s what the delay is.
Okay.
And is the lease with that tenant signed today? No it is not.
Okay.
Second question is just on the San Antonio developments.
Can you just talk about – you said it’s a new relationship a new tenant for MPT.
Can you talk about how you underwrote their credit and what their track record is on development? And will rent start flowing on that upon completion 14 months away? They’re actually an experienced company.
They’ve got a number of other properties that we were able to look at and see how their operations are going.
They’re actually backed by a Texas venture capital firm.
So they have got a good balance sheet good experience.
So while it’s a new relationship to us it’s not a brand new company.
And then obviously with the joint venture that they formed with Vanguard the Baptist System there in San Antonio it helped out an awful lot.
Now what was the last part of the question? When will the rent start? Yeah.
Yeah the rentals will start at the end of construction completion.
Okay.
There’s no ramp-up on the rents (inaudible).
Got it.
And last question is we had seen in some of the local newspapers here in New York that Prime Healthcare was looking to try to buy a hospital in Jersey City Christ Hospital.
Would MPW be involved in that acquisition if Prime made it? We’ve not been asked to at this time.
So I acknowledge that is the same as yours is what we’ve read in the newspapers.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
And our last question comes is a follow up question from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Just a quick one I may have missed this but did you actually provide the most recent coverage ratios across the portfolio? I did Tayo and I went through that in detail.
So if you call back off-line I’ll be glad to give that to you again.
Will do.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
And with no further questions in queue I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
El Aldag for closing remarks.
Well thank you operator and thank all of you again for listening.
And as always if you have any questions don’t hesitate to call Charles Lambert Steve Hamner or myself and we’ll be glad to get those answers for you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2012 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ian[ph] I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand over to Mr.
Charles Lambert he is the Managing Director for Capital Markets please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our first quarter 2012 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at <a href="http://www.medicalpropertiestrust.com" rel="nofollow">www.medicalpropertiestrust.com</a> in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed and/or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities Laws the company does not undertake the duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of this conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at <a href="http://www.medicalpropertiestrust.com" rel="nofollow">www.medicalpropertiestrust.com</a> for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Charles and good morning everyone.
In just a few minutes I will turn the call over to Steve to review the details of our quarterly results.
He will also provide you with updated guidance for 2012 which will speak to our strong expectations for FFO per share in 2012 both supported by our recent Ernest transaction at approximately 300 million of additional 2012 investments which we believe a 100 million is imminent.
Quickly I want to note that we are updating on how we are providing guidance in an effort to provide investors with a more subsequent picture of our outlook.
Going forward we will provide FFO per share guidance on a calendar year basis.
We will also be providing you with our expectations for the run-rate FFO per share at December the 31<sup>st</sup> 2012 and plan to provide 2013 calendar year as we are closer to the end of 2012.
I want to spend some time reviewing the strong performance of our portfolio and why we believe our strategy and operational excellence positions MPT for predictable and continued successes.
For the past few years while our country and the rest of the world have experienced the most challenging economic environment in decades the MPT portfolio has thrived.
Our EBITDAR lease coverage ratios have grown from 3.2 times at the end of 2006 to more than 5.5 times today.
And our facilities have achieved improved performance across the board.
It is worth noting that hospitals continue to have higher average lease coverages than other healthcare facilities.
Part of the reason for our success is our ability to selectively invest in the highest quality operators.
As we have discussed with you in the past our knowledge of hospital operative market is a distinguishing characteristic of MPT.
One that is a key underpinning of our proprietary growth strategy and a unique ingredient of our outperformance.
As further proof of hospital’s strong predicted performance let us look at the three of the country’s largest four private hospital operators.
While their admissions and adjusted admissions per bed have been relatively flat from 2007 through 2011.
Their EBIDTA per bed has grown dramatically and is up 22% 91% and 105%.
We continue to believe that the hospital industry is a great industry to be in during the tough times and the good times.
And then our expertise positions MPT to benefit from these fundamentals.
As we all know the demographic trends in this country are going to support continued demand for hospital services.
We will always need a healthcare delivery system.
It is our core belief that hospitals will remain the hub of our healthcare industry and high quality hospitals will lead the charge toward improving patient outcomes driving down length of stay and reducing overall healthcare cost.
We believe that our diversified portfolio across the entire healthcare spectrum from acute care to post acute care positions MPT and our shareholders to benefit from the growth opportunities supported by these market dynamics.
MPT is the largest REIT investor in hospital properties.
And our management team has a long history of driving industry leading financial results.
Giving the outperformance of our existing portfolio our market leading position and a low level of REIT ownership within the hospital sector coupled with our recent acquisitions and strong pipeline we believe we are well positioned for continued success.
We have also significantly improved our balance sheet and continued to manage this asset to support our growth initiatives.
Our current net debt to asset ratio was 40.3% our average debt tenure is 7.8 years and our percent of floating debt is only 11%.
We have continued to extend our debt maturities and we have a proven track record of successfully and prudently accessing the capital markets to fund growth.
So now let me take a few minutes to provide you with some color on how we achieved our success and why we expect to continue our positive growth trajectory.
Our focus strategy to invest in high quality hospital operators diversify our portfolio and drive FFO growth through dynamic acquisitions continues to drive positive results.
With our recent acquisition of Ernest Health we continue to execute on this strategy resulting in continued tenant and property mix diversification and an expanded geographic footprint.
In addition Ernest also significantly accelerated our strategy to invest in operating assets under the RIDEA structure.
Ernest is our largest operating RIDEA asset.
Let me quickly walk you through our six original RIDEA investments.
As you know these investments not including the Ernest transaction totalled approximately $10 million.
We began realizing return on these investments last year.
For 2012 we expect the return on our 10 million RIDEA investment to exceed 35%.
As Steve will outline this is reflected in our guidance for 2012.
For Ernest the RIDEA portion of the investment is close to a $100 million.
We expect the return on that portion of the investment to be 15% for the next couple of years and to grow from there.
This expected return is also included in our 2012 guidance.
We believe that smart RIDEA investments can provide long term upside opportunities.
Speaking of Ernest as you know we acquired this portfolio of 16 hospitals 8 IRFs and 8 LTACH on February the 29<sup>th</sup>.
Ernest finished the first quarter approximately 4% ahead of their first quarter 2012 budget.
The $300 million real estate portion which includes the $100 million in mortgages EBIDTAR on lease coverage for the first two quarters was two times.
Since the close of the transaction we have already moved forward with an agreement to fund the development of a 40 bed IRF for Ernest in Lafayette Indiana for around $15 million.
Let us turn quickly to the operational performance of our tenants during the quarter.
Over the years our practice has been to provide an apples-to-apples comparison for EBITDAR lease coverage of our portfolio properties that we have owned for at least 12 months.
We have historically provided the coverage on a trailing 12 month year-over-year basis and a trailing 12 month quarter-over-quarter basis.
For our acute care hospitals EBIDTAR lease coverage for 2010 included a higher than normal payment that covered a period of more than 12 months that was made by the State of California to hospitals in California.
While the payment for 2011 was for a period of less than 12 months.
We believe the more normalized amount is somewhere in between these two numbers.
Remember our reports from our properties lag our quarterly reports and we therefore report property coverage one month behind our actual quarterly report.
The year-over-year comparison for the acute care hospital EBIDTAR coverage was 7.2 times for Q1 2012 compared with 7.8 times Q1 2011.
For our LTACHs the coverage climbed year-over-year from 2.4 times to 2.62 times.
And the IRFs year-over-year coverage remained consistent at 3.3 times this strong performance lead to an overall coverage north of 5.5 times.
The quarter-over-quarter results for all three divisions were essentially flat.
Another very important leading indicator of operational results for our facilities historically been utilization.
Our acute care hospitals reported their utilization in the first quarter improved 5.7% sequentially compared with the fourth quarter.
In fact only two of our acute care hospital saw decreases and these were very slight.
Our LTACHs reported an increase in utilization of 3.7% and our IRFs reported an increase of 5.9%.
Year after year our tenants which count among the nation’s best hospitals had demonstrated the ability to improve their EBIDTA levels per bed.
Our same-store lease coverage ratios have improved dramatically throughout the years which has provided MPT the very best coverage in the industry.
We are pleased with the momentum we have already built so early in 2012 and we are confident about our future.
While Steve will go through our 2012 and our run-rate at December 31 2012 guidance in more detail let me point out that we believe we continue to build on our track record and that we should achieve an FFO payout ratio of less than 80% on a run-rate basis by the end of this year.
We remain confident that we are executing the right strategy for long term success.
We have one of the strongest balance sheets in our industry our existing portfolio continues to shine above all rates our pipeline of opportunities is substantial and our RIDEA related investment strategy is producing successful results.
We believe we are very well positioned for future success.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Steve to walk you through the financials in a little more detail.
Thank you Ed.
For the first quarter of 2012 we reported normalized FFO of approximately $22.5 million and adjusted FFO of approximately $23.2 million or $0.18 and $0.19 per diluted share respectively.
As a reminder we make certain adjustments to normalize FFO and in the first quarter these included approximately $3.4 million in cost incurred to make acquisitions.
The great majority of which related to the $400 million Ernest transaction.
Net income for the quarter ended March 31 was $10.6 million about $0.08 per share compared to net income of $10.8 million or $0.09 per share for the year ago period.
We have previously disclosed the debt and equity transactions that we completed during the quarter that were related to the Ernest transaction.
The effects of these and other financial metrics are presented in our financial statements and our earnings supplement that was posted to our website this morning with further details available in the 10-Q that will be filed later today.
And of course we will be happy to take any questions about those at the end of our prepared comments.
We have also previously described the first quarter acquisition of our Ernest investments so I will not go through those in details unless there are questions.
In addition during the quarter we placed into service and began collecting and recognizing lease revenue on our Florence Arizona acute care hospital.
This facility is expected to add approximately $0.02 per share on an annualized basis.
In the past we have provided guidance based on an estimate of future results of operations based thoroughly on our in place portfolio with no provision for the effects of possible acquisitions.
Beginning this quarter we will provide current fiscal year estimates based on our expectations of all activity during the year including acquisitions and earnings from our investments and tenant operations.
For the year ending December 31 2012 we expect normalized FFO to be approximately $0.85 per diluted share.
In arriving at this estimate we took into account our portfolio as of March 31.
Second quarter estimated acquisitions of a $100 million which we believe are imminent.
Placement into service of our three Emerus emergency hospitals during the fourth quarter approximately $200 million of fourth quarter acquisitions and approximately $3 million of revenue from our non-Ernest operating investments that represents about 30% annualized return on these investments.
We also include approximately $11.7 million in earnings from our investment in Ernest operations which represents an approximate 15% annualized return.
Importantly going into 2013 the run-rate for this portfolio is estimated to be approximately $1.06 which would result in a dividend payout ratio of approximately 75%.
This 2013 estimate reflects only our projected December 31 assets.
As we continue to make accretive acquisitions we expect our 2013 results will improve even further.
Also going into 2013 our debt would represent approximately 49% of our total assets and we would have revolver debt of approximately $210 million.
Our other debt and equity is expect to be unchanged from March 31.
These estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight line rent or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change.
Debt if refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments and tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
Let me take just a moment to describe how we estimate our income from tenant operations our so-called RIDEA investments.
Beginning in 2010 and through today we have made investments in our tenants approximating $107 million of which $97 million relates to Ernest.
The remaining $10 million represents investments in six separate operating companies all of which have demonstrated profitability sufficient to allow us to estimate the amount we expect to earn for the remainder of 2012 and 2013.
We will recognize these earnings only as they occur not based on our estimates.
We believe these operators should generate returns to us of between 30% and 40% on an annualized basis.
The Ernest facilities and operators were of course strongly profitable even prior to our acquisitions.
Based on their historical performance their first quarter results and giving no credit for operations from future facilities we have estimated that we will earn an annualized return of approximately 15% on our total investment of $97 million during 2012 and 2013.
As new Ernest properties come online and as future profitability is demonstrated we will adjust our estimates as appropriate.
With that I will turn the call back to the operator and we are prepared to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Please go ahead you are in the call.
Yes good morning everyone.
Jr.
</strong> Good morning Tayo.
Couple of questions I just wanted to make sure I understand 2012 guidance correctly.
The $11.7 million in earnings in guidance from Ernest does that also include the interest income you expect to earn on the loan to the operating company? Jr.
</strong> Yes it does.
Okay.
So I guess now I understand what that number is.
And then when I look at the guidance of $0.85 and I compare to a year ago or so when we are kind of talking about what 2012 could look like the idea was always once you guys had put all of your liquidity to work you would end up in a range somewhere in the mid-90s we will kind of come out roughly at about $0.85 now for 2012 and you have put all that prior liquidity to work with the Ernest deal.
Just kind of curious what the differences are between that initial target and kind of where we ended up in the year if you could reconcile those two numbers? Jr.
</strong> Remember we are putting this liquidity to work during the year.
Ernest didn’t come on until March 1.
The next $100 million we expect will be in the second quarter and then another $200 million in the fourth quarter.
So by the fourth quarter we will actually be on a run rate basically of roughly $0.26 to $0.28 and I think that does get you way above that mid-90s estimate that we provided several quarters ago.
And Tayo I think part of what you are leaving out as well is the offering that we did just recently in conjunction with the Ernest transaction we still have approximately $400 million in liquidity to put to work.
Okay.
Got it okay.
And then the additional $400 million or so of liquidity that you are going to be putting to work the $100 million in second quarter and then the $200 million in fourth quarter could you talk a little bit about just what those deals are the probability of those deals closing or were there just something in the pipeline you are still working on? And then also if the 2013 run rate of $1.06 includes permanent financing for those two big chunks of acquisitions you are going to be doing in the back half of this year? Jr.</strong> Yes Tayo on the $300 million the $100 million we believe is very eminent.
Obviously the deal that we are working on it will look just like the rest of our portfolio.
It won’t be any surprises there.
The other $200 million again does look obviously further down the line because of the timing that we expect it to be but it too is our traditional property types that we working on.
Okay.
And are you using any permanent financing for that deal in your 2013 numbers or is just the run rate with that deal kind of sitting on the line of credit.
That’s right.
The latter Tayo.
We have not turned out the line of credit for the $200 million deal.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Anything new on River Oaks and Monroe? Could you give us updates on those two assets? Jr.
</strong> Yes there is.
On River Oaks we have signed a lease with the lead tenant there and the construction is progressing well.
And usually takes up approximately 30% of the total space.
And then on Monroe it continues to perform well.
We continue to have a good amount of interest folks knocking our door wanting to acquire the facility but there is no additional things to report at that point.
Okay.
And Monroe are you getting rents from it yet? Jr.</strong> We are accruing rents.
Okay you are accruing rents okay.
Got it.
All right.
I am done.
Thank you.
Jr.
</strong> Thanks Tayo.
Thank you for your question.
We have another question.
This one is from the line of Daniel Bernstein with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead Good morning gentlemen.
I just had a question on the Kindred leases.
When do those expire? It looks like in your supplemental that’s pretty far off perhaps that I just want to make sure I understood.
And then are you looking at any of the LTACHs and Ventas maybe marketing at this point? Jr.
</strong> Dan the Kindred leases that we have remember that they were acquired through the Triumph and RehabCare acquisitions.
So the remaining term on those are pretty far out seven to 10 years – actually more than that.
And then the second part of your question was we are looking at the Ventas properties no we have not other than just looking at them very briefly we have not done anything serious with them.
Okay.
And maybe more of a housekeeping question here.
Do you have an idea what the straight-line rents are going to be this year assuming there is timing with the Ernest acquisition? I just want to make sure we were thinking about the right number.\.
Jr.
</strong> Yes what you see this quarter is kind of what you are going to get based on that about $1.4 million.
And I guess the other question I had was on the 15% return you are talking about if I recall correctly from last earnings call a portion of that is non-cash.
Is that still going to be the case or I guess there were some minimum payments that had to be done in cash but what portion of that 15% return is going to be cash this year? Jr.</strong> Dan we actually expect that it all will be.
Remember the way the structure we get a preferred return that staggers up to the 15%.
And it takes I think three years to get to that point.
But you expect all of it to be in cash based? Jr.
</strong> And all of it in 2013 most of it in 2012.
Okay.
I think I am good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you.
And this question is from the line of Karin Ford with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead Karin.
Hi good morning.
Wanted to ask Tayo’s guidance question maybe a little differently.
I think on the fourth quarter call you had said that following the Ernest acquisition you were expecting the FFO run rate to be $0.91 to $0.95.
And could you just reconcile what changes are incorporated between that range and the $0.85? I assume it’s the acquisitions the operating income that’s now in there the bond issuance is there anything else that accounts for the differential there? Jr.</strong> Karin on a run rate basis you are comparing it not to the $0.85 you need to compare it to the $1.06.
Okay.
Remember the fourth quarter was a run rate that was a full year and what we are guiding here is for 2012 which starts with this quarter’s $0.18 and then builds to that $0.25 in the fourth quarter to sum to the $0.85.
Okay.
So the fact that the Ernest acquisition didn’t close to the end of March is part of that GAAP and then the bond issuance is part of the GAAP too.
Jr.
</strong> Karin you are going backwards.
You got to compare to the $1.06 number not to the $0.85 number.
It didn’t go backwards it went up.
Okay.
I will put you guys offline on that.
Just another question on the $1.06 just to be clear that assumes that the $300 million that you are doing for the balance of this year is financed on your line correct? Jr.
</strong> That’s right.
Okay.
And then appreciate the color on how Ernest is performing so far can you give us a fixed charge coverage on the Opco [ph] investment as well as I know you gave us the coverage for the real estate.
Jr.</strong> It’s not a coverage question Karin because we essentially get 80% of the cash flow.
So whenever the cash flow is or whenever the earnings are we get 80% is essentially the equation.
Okay.
How can you help us sort of model what that cash flow growth is going to be overtime? Can you give us some operating metrics or things like that at Ernest to help us be able to predict what that’s going to be going forward? Jr.
</strong> As we said earlier we expect over the next two years that we will collect 15% on our $100 million investment there for the next two years and then it will grow from that point as those properties continue to – the existing portfolio continues to improve and more so from the addition of the additional properties like the one in Lafayette that we are financing.
Okay.
Final question is on the new development can you give us an expected yield on that and when we should expect to see rent start to flow there? Jr.
</strong> Well again we have not in several years given specific returns.
This will be right down the fairway with what we have guided which is 9.5% to 11%.
The completion would be about 12 months.
So probably second quarter of ’13 is when we would expect revenue from that facility.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you for your question.
And we have another question.
This one is from the line of Frank Morgan RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead Good morning.
I was curious what your operators has been there assessment on the proposed rule for LTACH payment.
It seems like that’s better than what most people expected but I was wondering if you could give us any color on what their view on the rule is and its impact on their business prospects and on coverage and maybe also any comments on the outlook for IRFs? Thanks.
Jr.
</strong> Well Frank I think if you will remember the conversation that we had while it may be different than everybody else thought it’s right in line with what we had thought it was going to be.
I think all of our operators are obviously pleased with it compared to what some of the analysts were concerned about.
I think most of our operators if not all of them thought that the analysts’ concerns were overdone.
So while they are certainly happy that it’s not what the analysts were projecting I think that their expectations were much more in line with what our expectations were.
From the rest of the rules as we have said previously the 25% rule we have very nominal negative effect from that going forward even with the potential glitch as the extension of the moratorium was written that only affects four of our properties and on a very nominal basis there.
And then I think the other part of your question was what are our expectations about the IRFs.
And those continued to be very strong very strong obviously is a positive increase as opposed to a negative increase.
So we feel good about all three sectors of our hospital portfolio.
I got you.
And I am just curious about one the stock doesn’t seem to have reacted more positively.
I mean with a conceptually better operating environment for some of your customers like LTACHs and IRFs do you have any theories on why it hasn't responded more because I agree with you.
I think the rule for LTACHs and IRFs are better incrementally better.
So I am just do you have any theories on why the stock hasn't responded more favorably to what most people would believe is good news? Jr.</strong> Frank if you go back and look at when the rules came out it responded very favorably.
I think we were up in the day – the day after that ruling came out or shortly thereafter close to $0.30 to $0.40 that day.
That traded back down so it was only up about $0.10 that day.
I think there is an awful lot of inter day [ph] profit-taking going on.
And then you have had the overall market aspects and then I think people are kind of in a wait-and-see from this particular call.
It is clear from some of the questions that we had earlier this morning about our guidance that it's been confusing for people the way our guidance has been giving in the past but this is an increase in what our expectations have been and we have just got to do a better job of being sure that people understand that.
Okay.
That’s fair thanks.
Thank you for your question.
We have another question.
This one is from the line of Todd Stender Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead Todd.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
Jr.
</strong> Hi Todd.
Just looking at potential sources of funds how do you kind of incorporate that into your budget? Are you looking at asset sales and would you consider using preferred equity? Jr.
</strong> Well as you know because you have been with us a very long time we have over the years had selective asset sales.
We don't have anything that we are actively marketing but historically there always seems to be something that comes up that makes sense for whatever reason and we do expect some of those on a very selective basis but nothing in the plans or in the works right now.
We certainly have had the ability over our years to access all forms of the capital market and with our recent upgrade from the credit rating agencies and access to those markets that means the unsecured debt markets we feel very good about our ability to continue to access those markets.
We have not accessed the preferred stock market to date.
We don't need capital right now and when we do we certainly will continue to look at all aspects of it.
Okay.
Thanks Ed.
And just going back to the two development projects with timing and expected yields you provided how about obtaining licenses state-by-state? Can you just kind of give us some broad strokes looking at Indiana and Texas and how far long the operators are in obtaining licenses just some of the requirements around that? Jr.
</strong> Just what happens is those two particular states are very workable states Texas probably being the most workable.
That won't be an issue at all in the construction and completion timing standpoint.
And the same goes for Indiana? Jr.
</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you for question.
We have one further question from the line of Tayo Okusanya.
Please go ahead you are in the call.
Hi just kind of going back to this guidance question again the 2013 $1.06 number if you were to exclude the $200 million of acquisitions for fourth quarter which is kind of a new thing that you have announced and I was to – what would that number be compared to that $0.93 to $0.97 guidance you guys kind of gave before for 2012 on a run rate basis? Jr.
</strong> It's not actually a new number Tayo.
All we have done is identified the timing we said from the beginning of the year actually late in 2011.
(inaudible) and then I said it again once we did the Ernest transaction we still expected that we would do $300 million of acquisitions for the remaining portion of 2012.
So all we have done is to update you further on the timing of that and that the $100 million we think is eminent and the $200 million will be done by the fourth quarter.
And Tayo we can't off the top of our head give you the difference in the $1.06 but Charles will be happy to walk you through that on another call.
Yes exactly.
And I think it would definitely be helpful to all of us in the investment community if there could be some type of reconciliation done between the old number and the new number.
So we will just kind of get a sense of exactly what's changed because it does sound like there's a lot of confusion around it.
Also in regards to River Oaks just curious the North Campus is that still under redevelopment at this point? Jr.
</strong> It’s the only campus we have left Tayo.
We sold South Campus years ago.
Right.
You just moved to the and you just had a tenant move in that’s taken up 30% of the space you said.
Is the building itself physically completed? Jr.
</strong> No no.
I said we have signed the lease.
They haven’t moved in yet.
All right.
Okay and when is the completion date again for the building? Jr.
</strong> The total completion we are probably looking at Q1 of '13.
Q1 of ’13.
Okay.
That help me understand that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
And we have a further question from the line of Daniel Bernstein of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead Daniel.
On the development you are doing with Ernest are there other development projects that you are looking at? I guess Ernest does both LTACHs and IRFs and so are you looking at maybe doing development for both property types? Jr.
</strong> Dan I am sure you know there is still the moratorium on the LTACHs right now.
So right now what we are doing with them is the IRFs and they do have additional projects planned as we stated when we bought that portfolio that we expected to grow with them that there was a lot of pent-up demand because they had – they had not had access to capital for the past few years.
So there are a number of properties that we expect to be doing with them in the near future and at the appropriate time we will announce when those are.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
There is no further questions for you.
Jr.
</strong> Okay.
With that thank you all very much.
If you have any questions about the guidance please don't hesitate to call Steve or Charles or myself and we will walk you through it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you very much for joining us.
Do enjoy the rest of your day today.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Erica and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Welcome to Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our second quarter 2012 financial results.
With me today are Edward Aldag Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we’re hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only.
And except as required by federal securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and thanks to all of you for joining us today for our 2012 second quarter earnings call.
It’s always rewarding when a good plan produces the results that you had hoped for and that’s exactly what our second quarter results show.
Since the beginning of 2011 through today we have acquired more than $850 million in assets.
During that time period we raised enough capital to meet those needs and still leave us with approximately $400 million in liquidity.
We knew in late 2009 that the opportunities that lay in front of us would be positively transformative for Medical Properties Trust.
Just to remind you we purposely elected to endure some short-term dilution in order to obtain the results you’re seeing today.
We will always manage this company for the long-term.
In every respect the results of our second quarter were outstanding.
Year-over-year our revenue increased 46% and our normalized FFO is up 37% per share.
We not only improved year-over-year we also saw strong gains compared with the first quarter which are indicative of the underlying sustainable trends we see emerging.
Compared with the first quarter our revenue increased 18% and our normalized FFO per share is up 22%.
Since our first acquisition our portfolio has performed very well.
Our investments are in some of the country’s strongest hospitals with some of the country’s strongest operators.
Our EBITDAR coverages have consistently been some of the highest in the REIT industry.
Hospitals are the linchpin of the healthcare delivery system.
Regardless of what direction healthcare reform takes hospital will continue to be a vital part of that system.
It is our unique and deep understanding of hospital operations and the industry that has allowed us to achieve the results I just outlined.
This core knowledge is a differentiating characteristic that forms the foundation of our past and future successes.
We believe this knowledge will allow us to continue to achieve strong operating results as we continue to grow our portfolio.
Last quarter we told you that we expected to make at least $300 million in acquisitions through the end of this year.
To-date we achieved about $130 million of that and still believe that we will achieve at least an additional $200 million through the end of this year.
Turning to our property results the mature operations in our portfolio and just to remind you that means the property has been in our portfolio operationally for at least 12 months continued to show an overall coverage of more than five times.
The only real decline in our portfolio experience came from some of our acute care hospitals in the California market.
This was due primarily to some reimbursement compressions in California.
However offsetting this is the California Hospital provider fee program signed into law in September 2011 that is expected to be a net benefit to our California hospitals.
Our acute care portfolio continues to have a coverage ratio of more than 6.5 times.
Our LTACHs are at more than two times and our inpatient rehabilitation facilities are at about 3.5 times.
We saw no change in admissions at our facilities over the same period as last year and down only slightly from quarter-to-quarter.
The summer months are almost always the slowest time for hospitals.
And these admission statistics match the results being reported all across the country by all types of operators.
Approximately 42% of our tenant’s revenue comes from sources other than governmental reimbursement.
Ernest continues to perform exceptionally well with an EBITDAR coverage of 2.14 times compared to our expected two times coverage when we acquired them.
Our non-Ernest RIDEA investments continue to demonstrate their strength by generating a return on an annualized basis of 35% for the second quarter.
We expect this to continue throughout the remaining quarters.
On the reimbursement front you most likely know by now that CMS issued its final rule for fiscal year 2013.
Medicare plans to increase payments to Ernest and LTACHs an estimated 2.1% and 1.7% respectively and 2.3% for acute care hospitals.
Of note the proposed rule strengthens the hospital value-based purchasing program or VBP.
This program will adjust hospital payments beginning in fiscal year 2013 and annually thereafter based on how well hospitals perform or improve their performance on a set of quality measures.
As mentioned in previous earnings calls our portfolio includes some of the highest quality hospitals in the country in terms of delivery of care.
For example Prime Healthcare a system of 18 hospitals continues to achieve national recognition for its quality performance.
11 of Prime’s hospitals were honored this year with an A Hospital Safety Score by The Leapfrog Group an independent national nonprofit organization run by employers and other large purchasers of health benefits.
Modern Healthcare published a feature story in June on the positive impact of health systems on patient care.
Prime Healthcare was highlighted in the article as an example of health system quality.
With the announcement today of our second quarter earnings we’ve demonstrated the result we’ve been expecting since we embarked on this strategy of taking advantage of the many investment opportunities we have before us.
We continue to be optimistic about the acquisition pipeline and the opportunities that exist for the remainder of this year and into 2013.
Our portfolio which continues to be one of the strongest in the industry continued to perform to our expectations.
We look forward to our future success in creating value for our shareholders that better reflects our differentiated and market-leading fundamentals.
I will now ask Steve to walk through the details of this quarter’s financial results.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
Just to set the stage for a little commentary I want to summarize the quarter’s financial highlights.
Normalized FFO was $29.7 million a 70% increase over 2011’s second quarter.
More importantly that translates into a $0.22 per share normalized FFO in the second quarter of 2012 an impressive 37% increase over 2011’s per share amounts.
Included in FFO is $879 000 of earnings from investments we have made in the operations of certain of our tenants.
This does not include Ernest which is reflected in interest and fee income.
Our supplemental package released this morning includes a new schedule summarizing our results from these RIDEA type investments.
Since the close of the quarter we have already added another $100 million in 10% plus assets and we expect to add another $200 million before year-end.
We’ll discuss our outlook momentarily but the point is that our shareholders can look forward to continued growth in FFO per share.
As Ed has just described these financial results are impressive not just because of the outstanding returns delivered to our shareholders but also because they validate our long-term approach to our business plan that sometimes includes accepting short-term quarter-to-quarter dilution in order to acquire predictable and growing long-term hospital real estate that generates high returns over up to a 30-year period or longer.
After raising $1.3 billion in capital since early 2010 we have made investments in hospital assets of more than $1 billion at an average initial cash return approximating 10%.
It is these investments along with the effect of our improved cost of capital that account for the dramatic increase in our nominal and per share results.
Based on the second quarter’s $0.22 per share our dividend payout ratio has improved to 91% from as high as 125% between the times we raised capital and made investments.
Again we expect continued improvements in our payout ratio as our FFO per share continues to grow.
And we believe these conditions are likely to remain for the foreseeable future.
The acquisition environment is attractive and U.S.
and global economic conditions are generally expected to result in continued very low interest rates.
We had no changes to our capitalization during the quarter.
Details of our debt are included in the supplemental package that was released this morning and we’ll be happy to take questions in a few minutes.
We funded the July investment of $100 million with cash and borrowed $25 million under our revolver for working capital and dividend purposes.
So as of today we have $375 million that is undrawn on the revolver.
We have historically utilized multiple types of capital products to fund our acquisitions and operations: secured and unsecured term loans unsecured 10-year bonds convertible notes bank debt and common equity through marketed and at-the-market offerings.
As participants in the market for all of these products we’re able to access the best option in respect of cost term and flexibility at the times we elect to raise capital.
So at the same time that we have been executing on our acquisition plans we have seen dramatic improvements in our cost of capital.
Upon funding of the anticipated $200 million in remaining 2012 transactions our leverage will approximate 47% with about a 5.2 times debt to EBITDA ratio.
We will have approximately $200 million drawn on the revolver which we would look to take out with more long-term capital.
And as noted we expect to have a range of alternatives to provide us the most efficient capital source for that takeout.
We have previously described our second quarter and later acquisitions.
So I won’t belabor that other than to reiterate that we continue to achieve high real estate returns.
And we do not see any conditions that could reasonably lead to tightening.
It is also important to remind you of the benefits that come from converting all of our Prime Healthcare investments to master lease and other cross-default and cross-collateralization arrangements.
This gives us even stronger credit support than Prime’s already outstanding profitability and lease coverage.
We extended the overall term of our relationship and we obtained an uncapped CPI escalation provision with an attractive floor.
Entering 2012 we had only three leases expiring.
We have reached agreement in principal to extend two of those for an additional 10 years and we sold the facility underlying the third to the operator.
In conjunction with agreeing to sell the third we negotiated an early exercise to extend the lease of another facility that we leased to that same operator.
For the year ending December 31 2012 our expectation of normalized FFO is approximately $0.85 per diluted share unchanged from our estimate from last quarter.
In arriving at this estimate we took into account our portfolio as of June 30 acquisitions of $100 million made since the end of the quarter placement into service of our three Emerus emergency hospitals during the fourth quarter approximately $200 million of fourth quarter acquisitions and approximately $3 million of revenue from our non-Ernest operating investments and approximately $11.7 million in earnings from our investment in Ernest operations.
Based on these assumptions the run rate for this portfolio is estimated to be approximately $1.06.
That is not an estimate for 2013.
We expect to provide guidance on 2013 later this year which will include among other things our estimate of the effects of acquisitions and capital activities in 2013.
These estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing costs real estate operating costs interest rate swaps write-offs of straight-line rent or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments and tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
With that we will take any questions and I will turn the call back to the operator.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Morning.
Couple of questions.
First one the new disclosure is very helpful.
I’m just trying to make sure I really understand what it’s telling me particularly around Ernest.
The operating revenues of $4.7 million – of operating revenue what’s in that number? Is that the interest income from the 15% loan and the – whatever portion of the net income you get from operations as well as the rental income from the assets as well the 12 assets? No it does not include rental or interest income based on the assets now that we’ve got four assets under mortgage loans.
So that’s not included.
That’s strictly the 15% interest on the $93 million acquisition loan.
Yeah but if – 15% of $93.2 million is just about $1.5 million.
This is a $4.7 million number.
I’m not sure I follow that arithmetic.
15% of $93 million for the roughly what four months that we had the property I think that’s the calculation that will get you the $4.7ish million.
How am I getting this wrong? All right.
Okay I see it.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then could you – what about just the pure operation of Ernest itself? The $3.3 million in equity that you have in the operations or roughly a 50% investment in the company operationally how is the company itself doing? Well operationally it’s doing exceptionally well.
Tayo as I said in the prepared remarks we underwrote it originally to be at this point about two times EBITDAR in coverage and into about a 2.14 times coverage.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Then the $200 million of acquisitions that you’re expecting in fourth quarter 2012 just give us a general sense how that process is going and whether it’s going to be to the same tenant or to a different tenant? Could you just kind of give us some specifics about that pipeline? Sure.
It will be a mixture Tayo of new and existing tenants and it will be heavily weighted toward the general acute care hospitals.
Okay.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then I always ask this question every single quarter just an update on Monroe as well as River Oaks.
River Oaks continues to progress very well.
There are really no additional update there.
The construction is still on schedule to complete sometime in the first part of 2013 – the first quarter in 2013 at which time occupancy will take place.
And on Monroe it operationally is doing about the same which is well.
There are some negotiations that we’ve been having but we’re not in a position at this point to have any additional discussions about that right now.
That’s helpful.
Any additional leasing at River Oaks at this point? No.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Bernstein with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed.
Yeah good morning.
Morning Dan.
So I just wanted to ask on the previous Prime leases there was a cap on the CPI right? I think it was 5%.
Is that the right number? No no.
It varied from lease-to-lease.
There was generally a nominal limit on how much it could escalate but it was not based on CPI.
Okay.
So getting that escalation is a very important and very valuable outcome of the master lease restructuring.
And also note there there were little if any fixed floors on the old leases.
And now since we have established a floor you’ll see that reflected in a little bit higher run rate on the straight-line rent.
Okay.
And was there any cross-collateralization between properties before or is that all new? It varied.
And to the extent that there was cross-collateralization it had burn-off provisions.
So the properties had done so well for so long that most of those burn-off provisions had been achieved by Prime.
So we had very – at the time we did the master lease we had very little cross-collateralization.
Okay okay.
That’s good.
And then on the pipeline I just wanted to explore that just a little bit further in terms of post-Supreme Court ruling and you have the capital gains potential tax increasing has there been a change in terms of the volume of assets or portfolios that you’re seeing? Do you think hospitals are more willing to sell now today than before for whatever reason? I’m just trying to understand if seller attitudes have changed at all.
Dan they really haven’t.
As I said when we first started this way back when with healthcare reform we really didn’t care which way it went.
We felt comfortable that from the hospital sector we’d be in a good position either way.
And we haven’t seen – we didn’t see any decline in appetite to do additional business before the ruling and we haven’t seen any increase post the ruling.
Okay.
It’s still very strong.
Okay okay.
And then also just on the pipeline are you assuming any debt with these acquisitions or is this all draws or whatever financing you’re going to do within your capital structure? Well for the next $200 million we just make the assumption that we’ll use the revolver to draw.
And then as we just noted in our prepared comments we’ll have a number of alternatives we believe for making that more permanent when the time comes.
Do you have a particular tendency at this point or inclination as to whether you’d rather do equity or debt to term out the revolver or still to be determined? Well it’s still to be determined.
And we’ll always take advantage of the most efficient form of capital including the cheapest and the point being that we’re participants in almost every capital product in market now which gives us a tremendous amount of flexibility and has served among other things to overall lower our cost of capital.
All right.
Thank you very much for having me on.
I’ll jump off.
Thanks Dan.
And our next question comes from the line of Karin Ford with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi Good morning.
Good morning Karin.
Just a couple more questions on the restructure of the Prime lease.
To get all the additional favorable provisions that you got from Prime on the new lease did you guys have to change anything give them back anything? And is there any change to either the cash or the GAAP rent under those leases? No.
It was structured to be neutral insofar as the cash payments.
As I mentioned on the GAAP payments we now have a floor of an annual increase so that affects the straight-line rent.
Okay.
So the 2Q – I saw the straight-line went up quite a bit in 2Q.
That’s a good run rate for straight-line going forward? No.
It’s not because it doesn’t affect – it isn’t affected yet in 2Q by the Prime.
And I think it was fairly flat from first to second quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
Second question is on the asset that you sold.
How much was that sold for and what was the cap rate on that? Well you can see in the reconciliation the FFO reconciliation that that asset generated a GAAP loss of about $1.4 million.
And the accounting doesn’t work this way.
But as I mentioned a few minutes ago I think that was really a combination of selling that asset and extending the lease on another asset which doesn’t get valued obviously.
Okay.
So the point being that’s not a good comparable when you start talking about cap rates because it doesn’t include all of the economic terms in the overall agreement.
Okay.
No yes I get it.
I just want to make sure that we’re modeling it properly going forward.
Okay.
And then finally can you just give us some indicative rates that you’re seeing on some of the options that you’re looking at for permanent debt? Can you talk about where you think you could do either secured or unsecured debt today? Well we’re not looking right now.
Now obviously we keep our eye on the market.
You can look at where – we’ve got two issues of 10-year bonds trading and one of those is well down into the 5%s and the other is slightly above that maybe approaching as much as 6%.
There is an anecdotal I guess preferred market developing that’s kind of being driven by some of the bank regulations.
Perpetual cumulative preferred probably we would be looking in somewhere in the 6% and 7% range.
And bank debt obviously remains extremely cheap.
But again we’ll look at all of those alternatives when we need to raise more capital and make the best decision of what’s available at that time.
That’s helpful.
And just finally what’s the interest rate on the new loan on Centinela? We haven’t given cap rates now for a couple of years on individual assets.
But it’s well within the range that we’ve given between 9.5% and 11% that we’ve been giving recently as kind of the target.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Todd.
Steve your commentary on the sources and uses of funds is very helpful.
So thanks for that.
Did I get this right the current line balance sounds like it’s about $25 million? That’s right.
Okay.
And that will ramp-up to include the Q4 acquisitions? That’s the anticipation correct.
Okay.
And then just kind of going back on Karin’s question regarding the permanent capital.
What kind of terms do you look at? Are you looking at bank term loans that might be on the shorter side say five to seven years? Or do you do you prefer to match fund your long-term leases with stuff at least 10 years? So again just to be clear.
We’re not looking at anything right now.
There’s no immediately planned capital raise.
In general just speaking at a high level in general we like longer terms and lower rates.
And in the bank market you can probably get as you described probably five to seven.
Unsecured markets again are very very strong right now.
We believe we could issue if we wanted to today 10-year unsecured bonds fixed at something between 5.5% and 6%.
And again our – we’ll mitigate – all things equal we’ll mitigate toward longer term and lower rates.
But those market conditions will be apparent at the time that we need more capital and we’ll make that kind of decision then.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just looking at the competition if you can kind of describe what you’re seeing out there for the asset type that you look at and really maybe describe or comment on the competition that you’re seeing for your anticipated acquisitions in Q4.
Todd there is a fair amount of competition on the post-acute sector.
There still isn’t a tremendous amount of competition on the acute care sector.
We are seeing some more than we have in the past.
Some old lenders are getting back into that business but nothing that has taken anything away from us that we wanted at this point.
Okay.
And also being a developer in a hospital space how about new supply out there? Can you maybe comment on what you’re seeing as well? Well this has been the same answers literally since the beginning of this company.
We could do a development deal a day.
There’s that much potential development out there.
We’re clearly not going to do that much development transactions.
The credit is still fairly tight out there for the operators.
And we want to make sure that when we do a development transaction it has got all of the pieces to the puzzle together.
We certainly need some additional development deals in this country from a delivery – healthcare delivery system.
And so we’ll do it from time to time but nowhere to the extent that we could possibly do it.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Ed Aldag for any closing remarks.
Erica thank you very much.
And we greatly appreciate all of your interest today.
If you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call Charles Steve or myself and we’ll get back with you with the answers.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
Everyone may now disconnect and have a great day.
Welcome to the Q3 2012 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Mr.
Lambert you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our third quarter 2012 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only.
And except as required by federal securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.
- Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Charles and thank all of you for listening in today.
First and foremost please know that all of our thoughts and prayers go out to those in the path of Hurricane Sandy.
We pray that you and all of your families are safe dry and warm.
Today we announced the continuation of a truly spectacular year for Medical Properties Trust.
With today’s announcement we show a continuation of our strong performance resulting in an FFO payout ratio of 80% for the third quarter.
We also announced that we have made an additional $259 million in acquisitions since our last call.
Year-to-date in 2012 we have now made a total of $781 million in strategic acquisitions and commitments.
This is a record level of acquisitions for us and is approximately 80% higher than we have ever done in one year.
And we still expect to complete additional acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
Based only on our existing portfolio which includes the acquisitions announced today we expect our annual run-rate FFO per share to be $1.8.
Said in a slightly different way if we made no further acquisitions no more in the fourth quarter and none in 2013 our 2013 FFO would be $1.8 per share.
This equates to a pay-out ratio of 74% from our in-place portfolio.
We have a strong pipeline of potential acquisitions for next year.
We will provide guidance for what we expect in 2013 as we get closer to year end 2012.
In any event given our low cost of capital and our ability to continue invest in properties at an average of going in cash cap rate of 10%.
We expect our acquisitions to be immediately accretive.
Our portfolio continues to produce one of the highest EBITDAR lease coverage ratios in the REIT universe.
And I know most of you know this but again just to be sure we are all on the same page.
We analyzed our lease coverage ratio using EBITDAR not EBITDA or like some of our peers as it means to be conservative we made the assumption that if we were to have to replace the management company we would still have to pay a third-party management fee.
Our overall portfolio EBITDAR lease coverage for properties that have been in our portfolio for at least 12 months is right at 5 times.
Both the LTACHs and IRFs produced a good year-over-year increase to their coverage with the LTACHs increased into 2.5 times and the IRFs to 3.6 times.
The only decline we saw was in the acute care sector with an approximate 5% quarter-over-quarter decline.
This is fairly normal for the third quarter over second quarter results for the acute care hospital sector and it’s been similarly reported by non-MPT hospitals all across the country.
Our acute care hospital EBITDAR coverage for the third quarter was approximately 6 times.
Our RIDEA investments continued to outperform.
As we projected the annualized return for our non- Ernest operating investments exceeded 35%.
Ernest continues to perform well generating EBITDA more than 3% ahead of budget.
We recently sold two properties both LTACHs one in the Western part of the U.S.
and one in the Eastern part.
These two properties were sold to third parties not affiliated with MPT or the tenant.
We sold these two properties for 27% more than our original cost which equates to a 260 basis points cap rate compression.
These two properties were not stand-out properties they were right in the middle of the pack average performers in our portfolio.
We believe this gain is indicative of the value of our total portfolio which has grown from an EBITDAR lease coverage ratio of about 3.2 times in 2006 to about 5 times today.
Despite the political back and forth surrounding sequestration we wanted to show you the strength of our coverages.
We have used two different scenarios to illustrate this point.
Both assume that our operators make no adjustments in how they operate.
For example we assumed no changes in patient mix or case mix indexes or reduction in expenses.
These are obviously very conservative assumptions because in all cases our operators would make such changes.
But in any event we ran two scenarios one assumes a 5% across the board cut to Medicare and the other assumes a 10% across the board cut to Medicare both significantly higher than the assumed 2% sequestration.
In the first scenario the 5% cut our overall portfolio coverage would go down to approximately 4.25 times.
Acute care hospitals will see an approximate 70 basis point drop and LTACHs would see an approximate 50 basis point drop and IRFs an approximate 40 basis point drop.
Under scenario two with a 10% across the board cut to Medicare revenue MPTs total portfolio coverage would see a drop of just more than 100 basis points and LTACHs would decline about 100 basis points to produce a coverage of slightly more than 1.5 times while the IRFs would still have a coverage exceeding 2.5 times or approximate 80 basis point drop.
As we have said numerous times we do not expect to see long-term cuts to today’s rates.
We believe any cuts will come in the form of cuts to the future growth in rates.
And if we see any cuts we believe the actual effect will generate no negative impact on MPT because our properties would still be producing strong coverage ratios.
Furthermore we continued to believe the regardless of what happens with the upcoming election or the federal budgets we fundamentally believe that hospitals will remain at the core of our healthcare system.
There have been numerous political changes throughout the history of the country and hospitals have always remained at constant.
We are confident that these institutions will continue to be the top of the pyramid in the healthcare delivery system in this country.
In summary I want to point out again that our existing portfolio is now generating an FFO which produces a payout ratio based on our current dividend of 74%.
Our portfolio will continues to generate strong EBITDAR lease coverages our pipeline for future growth looks robust and our balance sheet is poised to take the advantage of these opportunities.
At this time I’d like to ask Steve to continue with the detailed financial results for the quarter which further demonstrated the strength of MPT.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
The third quarter financial results continue to improve the value of our strategy.
We invest in high-return hospital real estate and lease to operators who have proven over decades of evolving hospital economics and regulations that they are able to profitably navigate the largest and one of the most complex segments of the U.S.
economy.
So I will summarize the quarter’s financial highlights.
Normalized FFO was $33.4 million a 71% increase over 2011 second quarter.
On a per share basis that translates into $0.25 per share in the third quarter of 2012 39% higher than 2011’s $0.18.
We have now posted two quarters in a row of year-over-year per share FFO growth that exceeds 35%.
And as we have been predicting our dividend payout ratio has correspondingly improved to 80% for the third quarter with further improvements expected in 2012 and beyond.
The great majority of our FFO of course is derived from our lease and mortgage interest revenue but also included in FFO in the third quarter is $3.5 million of income from our investment in Ernest operations.
And this is included in interest income and another $1.1 million in earnings from our six other investments in tenant operations.
That $1.1 million is up 25% over last quarter and reflects an annualized return exceeding 40% on approximately $10 million of total investments.
This continues to validate our strategy to limit our RIDEA-type investments to those in which we are able to acquire significant upside opportunity over and above our already high real estate returns at little incremental investment.
Remember that we separately earn rent and mortgage interest of approximately $50 million annually from these operators.
There are two items that reconcile funds from operation to normalized FFO.
Number one cost associated with asset acquisitions of $410 000 and secondly the non-cash charge of accrued straight-line rent related to a facility that we sold during the quarter of about $1.6 million.
I’ll review the sale in further detail in just a moment.
Our strongly positive outlook regarding growth opportunities was once again confirmed by activity during the quarter.
We added three general acute care hospitals to the Prime relationship for a total investment of $210 million.
Commenced construction of a new $18 million in patient rehabilitation hospital that will be added to the Ernest master lease entered LOIs to acquire two existing LTACHs during the fourth quarter for an aggregate $31 million and agreed to the terms of $100 million proposal to fund the development of 25 full service emergency facilities for a leading provider of these types of services.
The weighted going in cash cap for these transactions exceeds 10% and the majority of the rates increased by inflation each year.
A few do have floors and ceilings on the CPI measures.
We also sold two properties during and after the quarter as Ed has already described.
Since acquisition in 2004 these properties generated an un-levered internal rate of return exceeding 15%.
And to reiterate Ed’s point the cap rate based on the sales price represented a 260-point compression versus what we were earning at the time of the sales.
That’s an important data point for any investor’s estimate of our portfolio NAV.
And one of the several benefits of this sale is that it provides visibility into the market for these types of hospital assets.
We used our revolver to finance the third quarter acquisitions and expect to use it for the fourth quarter acquisitions.
Other than these transactions there were no other material changes in our capitalization during the quarter and a summary of our debt is included in the supplemental that was released earlier this morning.
Turning to guidance this morning we are increasing our estimate of 2012 normalized FFO to $0.90 per diluted share a $0.05 increase from our estimate from last quarter.
In arriving at this estimate we took into account our assets and debt as of September 30 acquisitions and disposition since the end of the quarter that we have just described placement into service of our three Emerus emergency hospitals during the quarter and approximately $31 million of fourth quarter acquisitions.
Based only on these assumptions plus the developments that will come online during 2013 the normalized FFO run-rate as of January 1 2013 is as Ed has just said estimated to be approximately $1.8 per share representing a dividend payout ratio of less than 75%.
Just to reiterate that is not an estimate for 2013 we expect to provide guidance on 2013 later this year which will include among other things our estimate of the effects of the acquisition and capital activities in 2013.
But because we are able to invest at cash cap rates that have exceeded 10% this year combined with our low cost of capital.
We remain highly confident that our acquisitions in 2013 will be strongly accretive from day one of the acquisitions with annual inflation adjustments improving that accretion each year.
Any level of acquisitions therefore further improves our outlook for FFO in 2013.
This strategy focused on lease revenue from hospital real estate is what will account for the great majority of our future earnings growth.
As usual these estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight-line rent or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments and tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
And with that I will turn the call back to the operator and we will take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jana Galan from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
2012 has clearly been very successful in terms of sourcing acquisitions and I was wondering what the pipeline looks like currently and should we going forward be thinking about this $400 million per year run-rate or given the results this year should that be a little bit higher? Jr.</strong> Jana as we said earlier we have not given an exact number for what we expect 2013 to be.
The pipeline is very robust it is probably more heavily weighted towards the acute care sector than it is the post-acute care sector as I’ve stated in the previous calls.
We certainly hope and expect that it will be much closer to this year’s total acquisitions than the prior year’s averages but we’ll update with the firm number later in the year.
Thank you.
And then how should we think about the funding of acquisitions.
Will you be looking at further dispositions or are you thinking more of 60% equity 40% debt going forward? Yeah we actually do think there could be opportunities for limited dispositions.
The market rates that we achieve with the sale of the two LTACH hospitals are very encouraging to us and we believe that that market it continues to grow and will be available should we selectively want to sell certain properties which we will consider.
The debt market as probably everyone on this call knows are at historic lows with respect to market interest rates so that is very attractive and abundantly available to us as we sit here today.
And as the stock price has improved over recent weeks and months that makes it more attractive for us to reach that mix as you point out Jana of roughly 60-40.
Thank you.
And then just a quick question on it looks like you have three leases maturing at the end of this year I was just curious if you expect to renew or you’re looking – marketing it to other tenants? Jr.</strong> There are three you’re right.
We absolutely expect to renew two of those.
I’m having trouble coming up with the third.
Oh yeah I’m sorry I’m just – two of them we are already in the process.
We’ve extended them and are working on documentation for renewal.
And the third I’m sorry I just don’t remember.
I’ll have to get back to you.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Daniel Bernstein from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Hi Dan.
I am actually happy to be on the call here with (actually) in power.
I just wanted to ask you what is the actual cap rate on the sale of the assets in the fourth quarter are you able to disclose that? Yeah it’s about 9.5% and those were paying us in excess of 12.5% at the time we sold.
And then just we get the cap rate because of the lease coverage and effectively whatever demand there was out there for the assets? Right.
Okay.
And then I just want to see in the emergency room freestanding emergency room development I mean what makes those assets attractive to invest in and it’s different than urgent care correct and then that these are not urgent care facilities? You’re right Dan absolutely different from urgent care.
These are roughly 6000-ish square foot facilities.
They are freestanding on attractive retail locations including out pads.
They are staffed 24/7 by emergency board qualified physicians which is one way that makes them significantly different than urgent care.
They do fairly advanced procedures obviously if there is something life threatening the patient will be stabilized and then moved to a more appropriate facility.
We think it is an absolutely attractive new development in healthcare delivery.
As you know we already have a relationship with another emergency provider and in that case Emerus are actually licensed hospitals.
The $100 million that we just announced those hospitals or those facilities will not be licensed as hospitals but absolutely will provide a top-flight emergency care with board-certified physicians.
Jr.</strong> And they are actually licensed emergency rooms not all states that have the ability to have this type of facility but in the states where these facilities are and planned to be they are actually licensed emergency rooms very similar to hospital obviously without the overnight stay.
This is equivalent to a certificate of need (indiscernible).
Jr.</strong> No it’s not a certificate of need state its states where the license share for those hospitals are actually I mean those facilities are actually emergency rooms but they are not in certificate of need states.
Okay.
So it does provide some level of barrier to entry? Jr.</strong> That’s right.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
It’s very different than an urgent care.
Okay.
And is there a timing on the – these are development fund – this is development funding and a leaseback at the end correct and so what is the timing of the development I assume you are going to get some interest income or money on the initial construction money that you provide is that correct? Well we will Dan we don’t recognize that though.
We absolutely earn it but the accounting rules say we capitalize that into the cost of the facility and then it ends up increasing the rate.
As the announcement says we think there will be up to 25 of these facilities closing anticipated on the first several early very early in fact in 2013.
We expect all 25 to have been commenced within 18 months of signing and completed within 30 months of signing.
Okay.
And I know New Jersey is a real mess right now and I hope all your patients at your facility in New Jersey is doing okay but have you had any word from your New Jersey acute care hospital is whether everything is okay there or not? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Dan we have actually stayed in contact with all of the facilities up in that part of the country.
All throughout the night we were getting reports literally throughout the nights with our (indiscernible) because I was up with them.
But the initial reports are fairly good.
I don’t want to give a complete report until we have all the information.
Obviously our facility in Hoboken was evacuated before the storm that was made public as the evacuation was going on.
I think of all the facilities that’s probably the one that we’ll look at the most closely.
I think the reports from all the others are pretty good.
Okay.
Okay well thank you and I will talk to you soon.
Thanks for taking my call.
Thanks.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Dan.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is from Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Okay great great.
Few questions first of all the First Choice following up on that are the new facilities it looks like everything we have now is in Texas like Dallas Houston Austin if I am correct will the expansion facilities be in Texas as well or going to different geographies?  Jr.</strong> They will be in Texas and some of the surrounding states.
Okay.
And then I was wondering I think on the last quarter call I am working remotely to it so I don’t have everything with me.
You talked about $200 million of fourth quarter acquisitions I was wondering if you could just reconcile that to maybe what closed in the third quarter what you’ve announced so far that could be hitting in the fourth quarter what some of that move forward into the third quarter just tie the two together it would be good? Jr.</strong> Well the $200 million would have made the $759 or the...
$781 million.
Jr.</strong> $781 million be $800 million exactly.
And as I said earlier in the call we expect to still have some additional fourth quarter closings as well.
I think that we will certainly meet the full $800 million.
Okay so but some of that $200 some of that it sounds like some of the stuff you are talking about closing in the fourth quarter now but maybe some that was moved into the third quarter is that the right way to think of that? Jr.</strong> Well I think you are talking about the $100 million development line for First Choice and that is correct.
Okay great.
And then last question the 2012 guidance went from $0.85 to $0.90 it went up a nickel the 2013 run-rate went up about $0.02 from the $1.06 to a $1.08 what’s the disconnect there or the difference why ‘13 goes up significantly less than what the fourth quarter is is it asset sales – that your asset sales are back-end loaded and that’s going to – that’s impacting the run-rate and kind of pulling that the $0.05 bump in this quarter down towards the $0.02 is that what the impact is? No.
I mean it’s basically the timing Mike and including not only timing but the rates that we’ve got and we’ll get in the rest of the fourth quarter are meaningfully higher than what we had – what we had modeled which I think if you recall we’ve been saying that we expect to close deals in 2012 between 9.5 and 11.
And so when we modeled we used the lower end of that.
The rates have actually been as I say meaningfully higher.
And yeah...
Jr.</strong> So it’s a combination of higher rate and timing.
Obviously when we gave the $1.06 to now the $1.08 it was all a 12/31/2012 number.
And so for the 2012 up to $0.90 we made acquisitions quicker in the year than we had originally anticipated.
At better rates.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back to Ed Aldag for closing remarks.
Jr.
- Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Ellen thank you very much.
And again thank all of you for listening today.
And as always please don’t hesitate to call any of us with any questions you may have.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sequana and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question-and-answer session towards end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for todays call Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our first quarter 2013 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relation’s section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by the federal securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and thank you all of you for joining us today to review our first quarter 2013 results.
As Steve will go over with you in detail in a few minutes the financial results for our first quarter were right in line with our expectations.
And more importantly the financial results continue to show the health and performance of our portfolio.
I want to take a few moments to go over with you what you cannot see from the financial results.
You will recall from our previous earnings call this year that we told you we expected our acquisitions for 2013 to be made in the second half of the year.
During this past quarter we made tremendous progress on these acquisitions.
Our active acquisitions pipeline is larger today than it has ever been.
I want to be clear I’m referring to our active acquisition pipeline not a shadow pipeline.
These are properties that we are actively working towards the close.
We certainly recognize that we will most likely not close on each of these.
However the number and dollar amount of properties we are actively working are larger than they have ever been and has always been the case we do not comment on acquisition targets but we ultimately pass on.
Our existing portfolio of performance fell right in line with what you've seen nationally over the past few weeks essentially our EBITDA coverage for all three of our major sectors was flat to slightly down quarter-over-quarter.
However for year-over-year they were slightly up to flat the utilization of our facilities also followed these trends.
Due to the number of acquisitions we have made in the past year we are viewing our portfolio coverages can get a little confusing.
So let me walk you through a couple of ways to look at it.
As you know on these calls I give you the EBITDA lease coverage for our mature operations meaning they've been in our portfolio for at least a year and I give these to you on a trailing 12-month quarter-over-quarter and a trailing 12 months year-over-year.
So that's where I'll start.
For our acquisition hospitals trailing 12 months year-over-year actually rose to almost 5.5 times trailing 12-month quarter-over-quarter at almost 5.5 times there is a slight decrease from the 5.65 times reported last quarter.
I'd like to point out that our hospital in Florence Arizona which I'll discuss in a little more detail in a few minutes is included in this calculation as we have owned it for more than a year.
For our LTACHs they’ve remained essentially flat at almost 2.25 times year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
For our IRFs quarter-over-quarter we saw a very slight decrease in coverage to approximately 2.8 times.
This 2.8 times is almost 50 basis points lower than the year-over-year coverage which is somewhat misleading.
This is normally is not due to a decline in the performance of the existing facilities but rather the addition of eight facilities that are still in their wrap-up coverage with less than -- that are less our seasoned properties.
However these additionally eight properties do have good positive coverage.
Now I want to go over with you the EBITDA coverages for all of our facilities including those that have not been in the portfolio for a complete year.
For our acute care hospitals the coverage is 5.3 times for the LTACHs the coverage is 2.21 times and the IRFs the coverage is 2.8 times.
Let me spend a few minutes discussing the success of our portfolio since our inception.
Over the history of MPT we have acquired or developed 101 properties.
Of these 101 properties 13 were development properties.
Of the 101 properties we have acquired over the past nine years only six have had any issues.
This represents about 6% of our total portfolio only one of these properties has resulted in any sort of impairment.
The dollar amount of that impairment represented less than one half of 1% of our total portfolio investment.
Most of you heard me say that in the real world when you make long-term investments as we do there will be bumps in the road.
The important thing is to be able to handle these bumps.
MPT has had very few bumps in the road and when we have our management team has proven their ability to address the issue.
Even when tenants file bankruptcy we have been able to bring in new tenants under stronger lease terms and in some instances we were even able to obtain the participation entrance.
The important thing to note is that we have been successful in managing these assets not just when everything works perfect.
Currently we have two bumps in the road Florence and Monroe.
About two months ago one of our operators in Florence Arizona filed bankruptcy.
We believe the Florence situation is an operator issue and not a hospital issue.
As we always do we have prepared for these situations with various forms of additional collateral that should provide a number of months cushion should the facility which is current on its rent at this time stop paying rent.
We have had a number of other operators support -- approach us with their interest in this facility and we're in discussions with them as well as the current tenant.
Florence represents approximately $0.02 of our FFO on an annualized basis and only 1.2% of our total portfolio.
Monroe is still not where we'd like for it to be.
While there has been no deterioration.
The improvement that we would like to see hasn't been there either.
To be extra prudent we will no longer accrue any rent on this facility until rent begins to be paid current.
Let me take a few moments to review some of the portfolio highlights for the quarter.
The number of our facilities continued to receive awards for their patient care Prime Healthcare was once again recognized by Truven Health as one of the 15 top health systems in the country.
This is the third time in five years and Prime remains the only for-profit system recognized for this honor.
Eight of Prime’s hospital remained as part of the 100 top hospitals.
All of Ernest Health facilities that were eligible were recognized in the top 5% of the 2012 UDAS National rankings.
North Cypress and CHS Chesterfield General Hospital also were recognize with patient care awards.
The Ernest facility in Lafayette Indiana opened in March.
All three of our managed facilities are opened and our exceeding our expectations.
The construction commenced on the [NSH OakLeaf] facility.
Westside Hospital opened in January in Twelve Oaks and again is exceeding our expectations.
We are very excited about the remaining part of 2013 and beyond.
We are excited both about acquisition pipeline and the performance of our existing portfolio.
We also expect to see continued growth in our FFO.
Steve will walk you through the details of the financials.
Thank you Ed.
We released our first quarter results earlier this morning.
So instead of simply repeating what you probably already read I just have a few comments about what those results indicate about our future outlook.
Total revenue for the quarter was up almost 42% over 2012’s first quarter reflecting the $400 million acquisition of Ernest in 2012’s first quarter and all of the subsequent 2012 acquisitions.
We expect to continue making substantial acquisitions of high-return hospital real estate which should continue to drive double-digit revenue growth.
However we do remind investors that we cannot predict with any certainty the specific quarters in which we will complete those acquisitions.
And we do not manage our investing process with only quarterly results in mind.
Normalized FFO per share in the quarter was up by 39% over the 2012 quarter the fourth consecutive quarter of 30% plus per share growth.
This substantial and immediate accretion that this increase represents is a result of the outstanding returns we earn on our hospital real estate and the historically low cost of capital that we presently enjoy.
During the first quarter we raised about $173 million of equity and those proceeds along with our undrawn revolver provide almost $500 million of immediately available resources for acquisitions.
As Ed mentioned our active pipeline of high-return acquisition possibilities is robust.
So the outlook for continued and near-term increases in our FFO per share is outstanding.
Included in the results for the quarter are earnings from our idea-type investment of about $4.5 million or $0.03 per share.
Of this amount $1 million is from seven investments with an aggregate original cost of $12.2 million and $3.5 million is from our Ernest investment.
Of the Ernest income $1.6 million is currently paid in payable that’s the 7% rate on our $93 million acquisition note and $1.9 million or about $0.01 per share is accrued in accordance with the terms of the note.
As a reminder that excuse me -- that 7% pay rate increases to 10% in 2014.
And Ernest management is highly incentivized to satisfy that accrued interest as soon as practical.
The total accrued interest since we closed the transaction in February 2012 was $10.9 million as of March 31 2013.
And of course these amounts are incremental to the $7.8 million in quarterly income from our Ernest real estate investments which are separately accounted for as income from direct financing leases and real estate mortgages.
After the end of the quarter we sold two facilities whose leases had expired to their lessees for $18.5 million.
And we will recognize gains of about $2.1 million in the second quarter.
The sale proceeds when combined with rental receipts since we acquired the properties resulted in an unlevered internal rate of return of about 10.3%.
The annualized FFO from these properties aggregated less than $0.02 per share.
We presently have no other property sales pending or planned and there are no other lease maturities in 2013 and only two in 2014.
On last quarter’s call we provided an estimate of 2013 normalized FFO of $1.10 per share.
Since then we have aggressively worked our acquisition pipeline and we feel even stronger about the quality and volumes than we did three months ago.
On the flipside we issued new common shares.
We sold two small properties and we have elected to discontinue rent accrual at Monroe.
We are not adjusting our 2013 outlook for normalized FFO at this time because of the strength of our active pipeline and our estimates about the timing of acquisitions.
We continue to believe that we will acquire at least $400 million in new properties this year.
But it is self evident that the earlier in the year we acquire properties the greater impact those acquisitions will have on the annual results.
Again we manage the company with a long-term certainly not a quarterly strategy.
And regardless of whether we acquire any particular property in any particular quarter we continue to see the following robust double-digit year-over-year growth in assets and revenue a very attractive spread between the going in cash returns from the high-quality real estate assets that we will acquire and our cost of capital indicating continued strong and immediate accretion from each acquisition we make an evolving market both in the U.S.
and other well-established healthcare markets that is attracting more sellers who are recognizing and considering the advantages that sale-leaseback capital brings to many company’s capital strategies.
And on the other side our growing recognition from other REITs and competitors that the perceived risks of hospital reimbursement have been historically unfounded and overstated when compared to actual results.
As usual our estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight-line rent property sales or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments in tenant operations vary from expectations the timing of acquisitions varies from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
With that we will take any questions.
And I will turn the call back to the operator.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jana Galan representing Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning.
How are you doing? Very good.
Thanks.
Regarding your RIDEA investments is it $0.03 of FFO per quarter good run rate until 2014 when Ernest may ramp up payments or through 2013 will it be volatile or do we see it ramping up through the course of the year? Well couple of points let me make.
Even when the Ernest note ramps up from 7% to 10% pay rates that won’t affect the run rate of the income because we’re already recognizing that.
It would just shift moreover to the cash receipts than the accrual.
So to answer your question overall we -- at this time certainly believe that the $0.03 a share which includes our Ernest and the other seven deals smaller deals that we have is a fair estimate of the quarterly run rate.
Thank you.
And then I guess the $0.02 of debt referral for the hospital sales that wasn’t in original guidance.
Was it? We did not anticipate that when we made the original guidance estimate no.
Okay.
And then I know it’s very early but have you started discussions with the two leases you have expiring in 2014.
We started discussions with one and we got a pretty high level of confidence that that will result in a renewal.
We’ve not started discussions with the other.
Thank you.
I will point that though on the other in particular the only other option to renew is to repurchase that’s a hospital which they will not walk away from.
So they will either repurchase at a price that will reflect a value that results in a gain or certainly no loss or they will renew.
And Jana let me point out on your question about the sale of the two properties not being included in the original guidance.
Just to reiterate what Steve said in his prepared remarks.
While that was not included in original guidance given where we are on our acquisitions we don't believe there is any adjustment to guidance.
And can you just give a little bit of color on the acquisition or your investments.
Do you see them trending more towards acquisition or developments or is it even? No.
No it’s heavily weighted toward acquisitions as it’s always has been in our portfolio.
The vast majority of what we've done and what we will do in the future will be acquisitions.
Most of the development that you will see will probably be the continuation of the Earnest facilities which we’ve discussed in the last previous number of quarters.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Steve.
Certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Karin Ford representing KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Karin.
I was wondering if you could expand a little bit more on your comment on the foreign hospital that you think is an operating issue and not an asset issue? Sure.
This is very similar to the situation you may recall that we had in facility in Louisiana several years ago where the operator in that particular case got overextended on properties that we choose not to finance.
And due to some of those issues we were unable to handle their obligations in the -- I don’t like the name of the facility.
No no one in Louisiana.
Covington.
Covington.
Excuse me.
And other than that Karin that’s about all I can say at this time.
Okay.
Can you tell us what the current coverage is on that facility and in your discussions with the operators has there been any talk about giving any rent relief on that asset? Karin the coverage is negative that what I was alluding to when I went through the coverage is that negative coverage is included in the total coverage ratios that I gave you earlier.
So the coverage in this facility is a negative coverage right now.
And we have not had discussions with the tenant about any rent concessions.
They are current on their rent and they've indicated us they continued to pay rent.
They expect to continue to pay rent.
Got it.
Can you just remind us what type of return premium you guys require on the development versus on acquisition? Well it’s not quite that simple.
But just giving you an answer it varies obviously from project to project completely.
If you look surely from an arithmetic standpoint of what has been historically from the beginning of our time through it’s anywhere from 75 basis points to 150 basis points.
The answer -- the part of that answer in there is you’ll remember that none of our facilities are if you fill the dreams developments where we're hoping to lease them up after we do the development.
Their situation was they were all pre leased.
They were leased to a tenant prior to the construction commencing.
So the risk is not a development risk.
The risk is that the operator has the ability to perform or execute on their business plan.
In situations where they haven't been for whatever reason some of the times -- actually most of the time that we've had an issue and as you know there have been very few of them.
There have been issues that have been totally outside of the operators of specific interest as they want specifically rated -- I mean related to the operator's performance Monroe being a perfect example of that.
So the risk is in a typical development lease-up type risk is purely operator’s performance and if we do our underwriting correctly the market that has the need for that particular facility and we bring in new operators as you know we’ve done in the past.
And does the what you see now in Florence given that facility is only about a year old.
Has it changed your underwriting process at all on the standard development side? No.
It hasn’t Karin.
We certainly can't control our tenants in what they do outside of our facilities even when we turn down their financing request for other facilities.
You can't totally control what a potential operator is going to do outside of your particular project.
Okay.
And the last question for me is what’s the impact on FFO from the stoppage of the accrual in Monroe? That’s about $0.02 to $0.03 a share.
Annually.
Right.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thanks Karin.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Defelice representing Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
It’s Phil Defelice.
Good morning.
Hey Phil.
I had a question on the dividend.
You have stated a consistent quarterly dividend of $0.20 now since early 2009.
You’ve done a great job of growing into it from a cash flow standpoint over the past 12 to 18 months.
With the payout ratio now sitting at 80% here on a run rate basis and normalized guidance implying below 70%.
It will be great to get your take on the dividend policy here and how you are thinking about the long-term payout target? It hasn't changed at all Phil.
It’s the same where that we’ve stated which is that the Board’s policy is that they would like to see a sustained payout ratio of 80% or better.
We’ve obviously -- as you’ve just pointed out we've been there.
Our next Board Meeting is coming up at the end of May.
I'm sure that will be a topic of discussion but it is not anything that’s planned to this particular point.
It will be something that the Board will decide at that point.
Great.
That’s helpful.
And then the current thirst for yield and where borrowing costs have certainly put downward pressure on cap rates across most healthcare property types.
Are you seeing any increasing competitiveness for your targeted investments and do you still expect double-digit going in lease yields on average currently? I think on an average that we do continue to see it in the double-digit range.
There has been some additional interest which is we've said all along for the last few years.
We welcome it.
We think the additional interest is very good for our investors from every aspect.
It obviously will continue to prove the work of our total portfolio and obviously will help us to sell the product on the customer side.
We all know that some of the other major healthcare REITs have recently made announcements that they are looking into the hospital space.
Again we welcome that.
We think that's a good thing.
And as it has been the case for the past few years some of the private -- publicly I mean privately traded healthcare REITs out there have indeed made some hospital investments.
Thanks for the color.
Good quarter again.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Bernstein representing Stifel.
Please proceed.
All right.
Good morning.
Hey Dan.
Hi.
I just got a follow-up on Monroe.
If you could talk about maybe one the operations there are not improving and what you guys can do to help to get the operations at Monroe moving a little bit better? Dan we still have great expectations for Monroe.
We think that it’s going to end up being a great project.
As you know St.
Vincent’s took over the management of that facility a while back.
St.
Vincent’s is a very large and successful not for profit operator in Indiana.
We just generally believe that not for profits don’t move at the same pace as most for profits do.
I think that -- our disappointment is that we just haven’t seen the improvement is fast as we expected it to be there.
We think that it will still be there but in an abundance of prudence we think that stopping the accrual of rent until they are actual paying it is the right think to do.
Do you have some expectation when you may begin accruing rents again on that facility? You have kind of a timeline maybe 12 months from now 24 months from now… Yeah.
I hope is… …looking into that? Yeah.
I certainly hope is not that long and the facility is above break-even not paying our rent yet we certainly don’t want to drain them dry but it has been above break-even for over two the years now and is good above break-even right now.
But just not at the point where they can pay our rent? Okay.
And then going back to Ernest I was looking back at when you first did the Ernest deal in late I guess it was 2011? There was $43 million of EBITDAR that was in place for 2012? What are your expectations for EBITDAR for that portfolio in 2013? And where I’m trying to go here if you took your the minimum cash payment back then effective lease coverage is like 1.3 and obviously you hoping was ramping up from then? But I’m trying to get a sense of where the lease coverage would be on that portfolio today? How many cushion you have their in terms of to ramp up to the 4% 15% cash return on the operating line? Well the lease coverage when we acquired the property is was in the 1.77 range… I’m sorry it was not not the lease coverage I guess the overall transaction coverage.
I’m sorry I didn’t mean to say lease but go ahead.
Yeah.
Let me answer it this way Dan if you take the $42 million $43 million EBITDAR number.
Right.
And you look at there in that they have probably three or four properties that were just coming into the ramp up stage.
So other than that the other properties we’re running fairly well close to where we would expect their EBITDAR numbers to be on individual property basis.
So without the additional properties that they’ve had under construction that they completed and that the newest are under construction now then you have a modest amount of growth in the EBITDAR from 2012.
Okay.
If you look at the new properties and look at where they are performing today where we expect based on additional time and knowledge that we have we expect that each new facility will generate an EBITDAR addition of somewhere between $2.5 million and $3.5 million to the bottom line.
Okay.
And let me just clarify Dan the $42 million are in place EBITDAR that we bought the company for basically is sufficient to pay 100% of the 15% rate on the note.
The reason that we’re not collecting the entire amount is simply because Ernest is in an aggressive growth stage and it’s better to give them some relief on the cash payments and let them reinvest that into these developments and remember Ernest has to pay for all of the ramp-up cost and all of the overhead that goes with opening a facility.
If we had not encouraged and bought Ernest in fact in order to take advantage of their development.
We had bought it as a status quo company.
We would be collecting the 15% in cash right now just the company wouldn’t be growing and that wasn’t our strategy.
Right.
We had calculated that back in ‘11 as well that you would more than cover the 15%.
I’m just trying to understand how much that cushion is increased or I guess it hasn’t quiet increased that much until you -- until they ramp up the new development that you’re funding.
Well I think that’s the point that you got right Benny.
Okay.
If we cut off the development and let all the development ramp up in -- the term you used cushion would be substantial.
Okay.
And I guess the only other question I have is yesterday Kindred announced they are selling assets to Vibra which obviously is a large tenant of yours.
I presume you can’t comment on that transaction.
I don’t know if you’re involved in it but have you seen those assets those -- do you think those assets I guess are of relatively high quality.
Would you be interested in them if you were brought into that transaction by Vibra? Yeah.
Your first comment that we can comment....
Okay.
It’s probably pretty good.
Okay.
I was trying to asking that we’re kind of convoluted way to get an answer but...
Yeah.
I appreciate that.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dan.
Your next question comes from the line Tayo Okusanya representing Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Tayo Yeah.
On the acquisitions fronts you guys aren’t really bullish could you kind of give us a sense whether it’s kind of like one really large like $400 million transaction you’re looking at that’s a game changer but whether it’s kind of bunch of -- kind of $50 million type deals? It’s all the above.
It’s all the above okay.
That’s helpful.
And then in regard to Monroe you were kind enough to give us the rent coverage on Florence.
Could you kind of give us a sense of where it is on Monroe even though they are not paying the rent right now? Well it’d be positive -- they will be able to pay something but it obviously wouldn’t be one to one.
Okay.
Are there any other tenants that I know historically kind of maintained that expect for one or two tenants everybody else is kind of close to your averages with regards to rent coverage.
Is that still true? It is Tayo.
This time I did something a little bit differently and I gave you the coverage for the entire portfolio as well as the mature properties.
But if you look at the entire portfolio on the hospitals in particular on a -- including those that are still in the ramp-up stage then including Florence you’ve got the two of them that are negative and the rest of them with the exception obviously of Monroe is doing very well.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just last question with LifeCare have they reaffirmed the lease at this point? Yeah.
We have the new lease with LifeCare during their bankruptcy.
They haven't miss a single payment.
And this is typical of -- when our hospital company goes into bankruptcy unless it’s going into liquidation it is going to pay the lease payment because if it doesn’t have the business.
So LifeCare went into bankruptcy in December.
Never miss the lease payment never miss any kind of payment and we executed new lease with LifeCare a few weeks ago.
Very helpful.
Thank you very much.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ed Aldag for closing remark.
Thank you very much again for all of your participation today and as always don't hesitate to call myself Steve or Charles if you have any questions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation of today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and all have a great day.
Thank you very much for your questions.
Our next question is from the line of (inaudible) Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Just with regards to guidance and the movement between last quarter and this quarter’s numbers I’m still a little bit confused.
The last quarter you knew the timing of the equity raise that had highlighted the dispositions of assets with the leases expiring and I understand lower cap rates has a bit of an impact on a full-year basis but it seems like I’m still missing something.
Is there a much higher debt cost that you’re assuming and taking out the revolver for fixed rate debt than you previously assumed and if so can you quantify that? And is that plus the lower cap rate really the difference between your -- in addition to the timing also the difference between the full year run rate number at the end of the year the 1.06 to 1.10 to the previous 1.10 guidance? There are a number of small penny here two penny there specific differences.
Basically they all kind of even out so the real impact comes from the items you’ve mentioned.
The lower cap rate than we had anticipated the timing which I gave you a couple of examples of those.
When we had our first quarter call in late April we truly were expecting this announcement we made today to be made at literally any time and it got put on the shelf by the seller for a while.
And at the same time if you’ll recall our common stock was trading significantly higher than it is today along with the other healthcare REITs and the cost that we could issue bonds was probably 75 bps lower than it is today.
So those three components timing cap rate cost of capital drive the great majority of the difference and the difference really… Sorry.
With your reference to the cost of equity should we assume that you’re going to use equity there? Further equity this year to gear your balance sheet a little bit? Well again we could use debt all debt I think under the current acquisition plans or acquisition announcements and still be within the range that we gave earlier; the 45% or lower leverage the 5.5 times EBITDA and the dividend payout.
But as I also mentioned we’ll be opportunistic; we’ll keep an eye on the market.
We have a number of alternatives to permanently finance what’s in the immediate pipeline and what could be a little bit further down the road.
So we have no expressed plans as we sit here today.
Okay.
So the main difference if I’m hearing you right is bond cost 70 basis points higher the timing as it relates to the relative earnings downgrade versus prior expectations.
Well the cap rate.
And the cap rate sorry.
Okay great.
It’s not just bonds.
Just to clarify again three months ago we were trading at 17 plus and so obviously we are not any more.
So that has an effect on our cost of equity capital.
Okay.
And just one other question what are your latest thoughts with regards to international opportunities? What should we be thinking in terms of timing of the potential expansion and what should we be thinking in terms of valuations relative to what you guys are doing in the U.S.
from a cap rate perspective and what sort of geographies are the most appealing? Well it’s certainly been something we’ve looked at since the inception of our company 10 years ago and we explored a lot of different areas; we’ve been actively exploring it since the beginning.
We pretty much narrowed it down to the Western European countries to do one of our first acquisitions.
There are a number of opportunities that we are actively looking at right now.
They are all within the same range of the eight to 11 that we gave you just gave the caller just a few minutes ago.
From a timing standpoint it could be as early as this year.
It could roll over into 2014.
It’s just when the opportunities present itself at the right time.
Okay.
So your previous comment about equities seems to imply that if you were to want to do something in Europe you want to shore up your balance sheet ahead of any potential size of acquisition.
It’s not just Europe.
Obviously we don’t intend on not growing any beyond the acquisitions that we’ve announced here.
So as we continue to look at managing the company and our growth expectations we’ve got to take all of that into consideration.
Okay and one just follow up.
What size would make sense as an initial beachhead in a new market for you; just round numbers? Its hard to give you that number exactly right now but certainly its somewhere north of $100 million.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
When is the large portfolio expected to close? I think you said third quarter in the release but can you give us just a little more specific than that? I don’t know.
We really can’t.
Third quarter we are halfway through it already so...
Is it possible it slips to 4Q or are you pretty confident that it’s 3Q? Well sitting here today there’s no reason to think that it should slip but in the realm of anything is possible yes it’s possible but that’s certainly not our expectation.
Okay.
And did the quality of the operator and the quality of the portfolio cause you to change your underwriting on coverage differently on this acquisition versus others? The coverage is very strong.
Okay.
Inc.</strong> Yes good morning everyone.
First of all just congrats on the fairly large deal pipeline out there; that’s good to see.
Ed in the press release you do make some illusions to additional acquisitions beyond what you’ve announced so far and you’ve kind of given us some color about the $100 million to go to a new market.
But could you just kind of give us an overall sense of just how large the deal pipeline could be beyond what you’ve announced already? I can’t but what I can tell you is how much of that will actually close or happen in 2013 versus 2014.
But we are actively right now working on a number of acquisitions that include a portfolio of properties as well as individual properties that are in the neighborhood of $600 million to $800 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
And then just any thoughts on kind of the recent news coming out with all these large hospital M&amp;A transactions; what you kind of think of all that and whether that’s creating any opportunities for you? Well it certainly should create opportunities and I think that were going to continue to see some consolidation.
As I said I think in the last call I think the consolidation is going to primarily be related to the consolidation by full profits if not for profits.
Some of the full profit consolidation that we see going over the market right now is somewhat of an anomaly based on some specifics with individual companies as we are all aware of but any time you’ve got those type of acquisitions where you’ve got capital needs it presents an opportunity for us.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi is your FFO guidance shift impacted at all by your operating view? That is are there any additional hospitals that are no longer accruing rent? No the only one not accruing rent is Monroe.
Specifically Florence continues to pay rent.
They’ve remained current on rent through the month of August.
So there’s no impact on any operating issues and we’re not aware of any operating issues other than the ones we’ve previously discussed.
Okay.
And then also what will be the impact if any that you are now lower 2013 FFO guidance will have on compensation? Well compensation is a matter for the compensation committee and we’ve not had recent discussions with them and that wouldn’t generally happen until toward the end of the year.
Okay thank you.
That’s all.
Thank you.
I think you covered it but just wanted to see if you felt like the strategic activity going on in the broader hospital operator market could provide you with potential opportunities for deals or do you feel like there’s enough.
Would you consider something like the Vanguard Health deal which I know some REITs looked at or is the one off asset pool large enough at that point that you feel like there is enough deals in that space that you don’t need to play in sort of the bigger strategic space? Well again I think the answer to both questions is yes.
The one-offs is large enough for us to fill out our acquisition pipeline but there are an awful lot of very good looking opportunities out there with some of the strategic opportunities such as the Vanguard but some of the others in particular that I mentioned on the previous calls and just a little while ago on this call of the acquisition of not for profits by the full profit environment and we’re seeing a number of those that we think are good opportunities for us.
Some of your parents have noted some increase in competition in other sectors aside from hospitals and other healthcare spaces.
Are you guys seeing any increase in competition in your space? Not any more than usual.
I guess some of the larger healthcare REITs out there have certainly made some noise and some looks into some of the acute care space and as I have mentioned when I get asked this question I think that’s good news for us and good news for the market that we are in.
We welcome the competition at this point.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Karin.
Great thanks.
I’m just curious going back to the three-hospital acquisition.
I mean what happened in May 1 where it ended up getting shelved or pushed off and considering you’re announcing it now where you didn’t announce it on the 1Q call and it was pretty close.
What’s different now? Well the first thing was totally internal with the seller of the properties and it had nothing to do with the selling of these assets but something else that they were working on.
The thing that’s changed is that we have definitive agreement signed at this point.
Got it okay.
And two other quick ones; Steve does the 1.06 to 1.10 have debt and equity or capital markets assumptions in there? Yes to maintain the metrics that we went through a little earlier.
Okay so it does okay.
And last question just thinking about the comments on international I mean why do you think international doing something overseas makes sense at this point? I mean it seems like the domestic pipeline from what you’re saying is pretty strong and you’re saying the returns are comparable.
So what makes it that much attractive where it’s something you really want to good over and do? Mike that’s a good question and as we’ve said since the beginning when we started looking to the international it is a way for us to diversify.
We obviously are a specialized REIT in the hospital space that’s what our management team knows very well.
We are all people that came out of owning and operating hospitals whether they be the post-acute or the acute care sector.
So when we look at our portfolio and we think of how we diversified that we certainly didn’t need to diversify within the U.S.
into other products that other healthcare REITs do very well.
And looking at the international market it gives us the opportunity to continue to invest in a product that we know and know well while at the same time being able to diversify outside of the U.S.
healthcare system and take away some of the potential risk of having limited payers.
Okay thank you.
Hey Dan.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
On the international side due see any development opportunities as well as acquisition? On the development side in the international we wouldn’t do any ground-up construction development certainly at this point.
If we participated in any development side it would be as a take-out as opposed to doing it from the start.
Inc.</strong> And I’m not sure if you commented on it before but in terms of international versus domestic in your portfolio do you have some kind of target ratio you would like to be or limit to how much international you would want to do? No we haven’t mentioned that and we don’t have one.
It’s more looking at each individual transaction on an individual basis at this point and where we think it fits into our total overall portfolio.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Would it be fair to say you’re still more focused on the domestic than international? Absolutely.
Inc.</strong> I guess the other question the healthcare REITs deal or some of the big cap REITs have seen additional competition.
Have you seen private equity at all involved in the hospital space? If you could be more focused on MOBs and senior housing do you think you are finding any additional interest in the hospital space in private equity? Well there is on the operating side.
The difference between this go-round and which is all pre-2008 in pre-2008 the private equity was willing to use their dollars on the real estate as well as the operations.
Today we get a lot of calls from private equity companies that are looking to invest in the operating side of acute care hospitals and bringing us to the table for the real-estate side.
Inc.</strong> Why do you think they are avoiding the real-estate side? I’m sure what the rational is there? I don’t think they’re avoiding it at all Dan.
There is a difference in the returns that they can get from the operating side versus the real-estate side.
As you well know our real state investors require much lower return than operating investors do.
Inc.</strong> Okay it’s just math to them.
All right that’s all I have.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dan.
Inc.</strong> That’s for talking my follow on calls.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First of all with the development pipeline kind of getting much more robust now.
Could you give us a look at the sense of what expected yields are on a majority of these developments? Tayo the pipeline is not as robust as it may appear to be because of the first choice.
Other than that you’re primarily looking at the Earnest transactions.
With the Earnest transactions that we’ve done the cap rates are in line slightly higher than the up and running facilities that we purchased two years ago now almost two years ago now.
And so on an overall basis the return for the development deals is higher than it is but its not – I don’t think its as robust as you may think that it is from the standpoint of the size of the first choice transactions.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So is the number closed about 10% or slightly south of 10%? Well it varies Tayo depending on the transaction but it is higher than what we would do the comparable transaction for on that.
And as you know we don’t give it out on each individual operator.
Keep in mind Tayo on Earnest those properties go into the master lease so there is significant incremental coverage and credit there.
On the Wisconsin property for national surgical hospitals that’s a replacement hospital.
So there’s really no ramp-up risk.
There is really no construction risk because all of that is born by the well-capitalized operator.
When that facility is completed they’ll turn off the lights on the old facility and turn on the lights on the new facility and it’s truly an up and running highly profitable hospital.
So you don’t have really any of the development risk that you would otherwise think comes with the development.
Nonetheless that’s a very attractive cap rate.
Inc.</strong> But you’re not giving out specific numbers at this point to kind of help us out? We haven’t done in that several years.
Inc.</strong>  Understood.
It’s just getting bigger so I just want to make sure we are capturing your value creation from it correctly that’s all.
And then the last thing in 2Q as well you did in a couple of hospitals kind of talk about weak admission volumes.
I know you kind of alluded to it a little bit in your commentary Ed but could you kind of give us a sense of kind of what you think may have caused some of that and why your operators did not go through kind of a similar trend? Well as I said there was some softening primarily due to the lack of a flu season and some under assured or uninsured in some mark but it is still not very dramatic compared to some of the more rural areas.
If you look at our hospital portfolio ours are more urban based and metropolitan based as opposed to the pure rural players I think where you saw some of the bigger disappointments and primarily in some of the larger operators that own the community based hospitals.
Inc.</strong> Got it okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks again.
All right.
Thanks Tayo.
Thank you Lisa.
We appreciate it and we appreciate all of your interest and if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call Steve Charles or myself.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Quarter Three 2013 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mathew and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn [Technical Difficulty] Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our third quarter 2013 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities Laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Charles and thank all of you for joining us today for the Medical Properties Trust third quarter earnings call.
Once again we are now seeing a tremendous quarter for our investors.
During this quarter we either announced definitive documents signed or the actual closing or more than $500 million of high quality hospitals across the U.S.
and in Germany.
This amount when added to what we have previously done totals approximately $650 million in acquisitions for the year.
This is a 162% of our original guidance at the beginning of the year.
Our two largest investments during the third quarter were two portfolio transactions.
Three IASIS hospitals and 11 RHM facilities in Germany.
The three IASIS facilities have solid historical financial performance they are located in Mesa Arizona West Monroe Louisiana and Port Arthur Texas.
All three facilities entered into our portfolio with the strong EBITDAR coverage’s and very good physical real estate assets.
This portfolio was marketed through a highly competitive process.
Our teams in that knowledge of a hospital market played an important role in our winning this bid.
The high degree of interest from others in these hospitals continues to show the unrecognized value in the overall MPT portfolio.
The 11 rehabilitation facilities in Germany are operated by the German operator RHM.
RHM is an experienced operator with the long positive track record.
The rehab market in Germany is currently very fragmented with RHM being the 11th largest operators.
We expect that MPT will be a part of RHMs further growth in Germany.
This particular acquisition helps to diversify the MPT portfolio and further strengthen in already strong portfolio.
Like IASIS transaction the RHM transaction was heavily marketed and received broad interest.
Again our experience and focus were factors here.
RHM wondered a partner that understood healthcare.
On the acquisitions pipeline front we continue to have good prospects in both the U.S.
and in Western Europe.
As we previously announced we expected our future acquisition will be heavily weighted towards the U.S.
acute care hospital markets.
We will provide 2014 guidance either late in the fourth quarter of this year or early in the first quarter of next year.
In addition to the two facilities which start to construction this year are Ernest Health acquired an up and running hospital in Corpus Christie using MPT financing.
To-date three of our first choice ERs have begun construction and are expected to be operational in 2014.
It is possible that we will have a couple of more acquisition closings this year but most likely they will be in the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to our existing portfolio the acute care hospitals continue to perform on a whole very well.
The EBITDAR lease coverage for the trailing 12 month period ending August 31 2013 compared to the same 12 month last year increased about 35 basis points to almost 5.5 times.
This calculation includes all hospitals that have been in our portfolio for at least 12 months.
Our inpatient rehabilitation hospitals were essentially flat with coverage of almost three times.
The OpEx were down slightly to just under two times coverage from just over two times coverage previously.
At this time I'll ask Steve go over the specific financial performance of the quarter.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
We filed our press release this morning describing our operating results.
So I'm not going to repeat all of that here.
But I do want to provide some context as we and our investors consider what our results mean for the longer term.
Our normalized FFO at $0.25 per share was right in line with our expectations.
And that includes the impact of more than $300 million in debt issuances and equity issuances to fund recent acquisitions in advance of the closing.
This new long-term capital funded the three IASIS hospitals that we acquired for $283 million on September 26.
We also raised approximately $270 million that will fund the 11 RHM facilities that we have under contract for approximately $248 million.
That dollar value is based on total cost of €184 million.
And by the way about $12 million of that total represents German transfer taxes which upon closing will be reflected in accordance with GAAP as an acquisition expense.
Our investments in our tenant operators continue to generate strong results.
Year-to-date through September 30 we have recognized $10.5 million from our Ernest investment.
Now that’s over and above the $26 million we have recognized in rent and mortgage interest.
Since our acquisition of Ernest almost two years ago their management team has grown the portfolio from 16 to 19 hospitals and is in the process of opening two additional hospitals.
As this growth continues and the new facilities ramp up operations we expect our earnings from Ernest operations to begin to exceed the contractual 15% return that we have been recognizing since the acquisition.
And remember that for each new Ernest hospital in addition to the very attractive and long-term rental revenues MPT earned at least 80% of operating income and makes very little most of the time no incremental investment in order to achieve those earnings.
In addition to income from our Ernest investments we have reported a little more than $2.5 million from our approximately $10 million in other investments in tenant operations.
We think this annualized 30% plus return is a fair guide for at least to next few quarters.
which generates approximately $2 million in annualized rent.
But we believe it highly likely that the lessee would vacate the property.
We presently have a significant amount of liquidity due impart to the roughly $270 million in euro denominated seven year bond that we closed in early October.
The euro denomination by the way is €200 million translating to about $270 million equivalent.
Those funds are now in escrow pending use for the anticipated fourth quarter closing of the RHM transaction in Germany.
Pro forma for that closing we expect our leverage ratio to be less than 45% which is measured as net debt and depreciated assets.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio again pro forma for closing RHM is expected to approximate 5.2 times.
Subsequent to that anticipated closing we would have total liquidity of about $350 million including $315 million available under our $400 million revolving credit facility.
So we expect to go into 2014 with a very strong balance sheet with limited near-term maturities and substantial cash and availability to continue our highly accretive growth while maintain our prudent leverage in credit policies.
The press release this morning included our estimate of between $0.98 and $1 per share for all of 2013.
The primary differences in our assumptions between now and last quarter’s estimate of a late third quarter closing of our [ACEs] the success in completing the agreements to acquire the German assets and our decision to go ahead and raise euro denominated bonds in advance of closing RHM.
The market by the way in Europe was very receptive to the MPT story and credit profile.
And that is reflected in the outstanding execution of that offer.
As we look into 2014 we expect the current portfolio assuming a fourth quarter closing on RHM will generate a run rate normalized FFO of $1.07 to $1.11 per diluted share.
That’s a built in annual increase of approximately 10%.
And as a reminder each acquisition we make generate immediate and significant per share accretion.
So we expect those 2014 results to be even better.
As usual these estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight line rents property sales foreign currency gains and losses or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments in tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
With that we are happy to take any questions and I will turn the call back to the operator.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Tayo.
Yeah.
So you guys had an amazing year just when it comes to acquisitions and the run rate looks great kind of heading into ‘14.
Steve you made interesting comments early about because your dues are accretive you probably expect ‘14 to end up even better than the run rate.
But when I look at ‘13 we kind of started off with $1.10 guidance wise we’ve had strong deals the number at the end of the year kind of ended up closer to what $1.
What changes in ‘14 that kind of get back earnings trajectory up in ‘14 versus some of what happened in ‘13 where we systematically have to lower the numbers? Well the changes in the estimates going through ‘13 as we discussed I think pretty extensively on the last quarter’s call were primarily related almost exclusively.
Well there were three things.
There was the timing of the acquisitions which in general although the acquisition volume has been extremely good for us the timing has been back-end weighted.
Obviously the very disruptive capital market conditions particularly started starting early in the summer increased our and everyone’s cost of capital.
And then we made some property sales and we discontinued the accrual of the Monroe ramp.
So those will make up 80% or 90% of the changes and estimates going into ‘13 versus coming out of ‘13.
And certainly there are lots of unforeseen things that can happen in ‘14 I have just been through a long long re-list of them.
But our pipeline is extremely strong.
We have several very very large potential acquisitions that we're working.
And so we remained very optimistic about going into 2014.
And again remember the run rate that we just gave you that if we do nothing that's basically on locked in if we do nothing.
We don't need additional capital to generate that run rate we don't need additional acquisitions to generate that run rate.
And so we are hopeful that the changes in our estimates going forward would be to recognize acquisitions that we make at very accretive returns.
Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then from the acquisition perspective kind of you are moving back towards domestic US general acute care because this a little bit of our cap rate.
Is that world also getting very aggressive where cap rates are now in immediate for the market or are we kind of back to [broadly] to see kind of new deals at 9% 9.5% 10% cap rates.
Jr.</strong> Yeah Tayo we are not moving back we have always been here.
I’ve said over the last few earnings calls we get out of the whack in our portfolio mix but going all the way back to the Earnest transaction and then again with some of this German transaction.
But we've always wanted to be heavily weighted towards the acute care.
So we haven't lost our focus there.
And coming back to it it's just when you look at the pipeline it is heavily weighted towards the US acute care hospital sector.
And I'll point that out just because we made the recent German acquisition.
The cap rates still are a fairly widespread.
They are in the mid 8s all the way up to 11.
If you look at an average of what the pipeline is right now it’s in the 9 plus range for general acute care hospitals.
That’s very helpful.
And then just one more if you could please endorse me.
Could you just walk us through the economics of the First Choice deals again how they work.
Are you providing the construction financing or you ultimately pick them out or…? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
We are in fact doing that Tayo.
It’s difficult of most of the development type of transactions we do.
We provide the construction financing during which time the lease rate accrues.
And at completion of construction that accrued construction period lease rolls into the lease-base.
And then we earn obviously the escalated lease rates which in the case of First Choice are very strong.
And they are way ahead of where we thought they would with respect to putting this money to work.
And if we were to approve all of the properties that we are now looking at with them then we would be depleted in our $100 million commitment to them.
Remember when we entered that commitment we thought it was about 3.5 year build out and if we reassess that today I am sure it will be much shorter than that 3.5 year.
Got it.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Tayo.
Hi.
Just few questions here.
First of all do you have any more specific timing on Germany closing? Jr.</strong> Yeah Mike it should be fairly eminent as Steve pointed out in his prepared statements earlier.
We potentially closed everything in Escrow.
We’re waiting on regulatory approval that’s basically a seven step process and most of them are through the six step process.
It could be within the next couple of weeks or could be within the next 30 days.
Got it.
Okay okay.
I mean is the right way to look at it looks like your run rate guidance before this quarter was I think 106 to 110 and else 107 to 111 it looks like the only real large moving part that wasn’t in last guidance was Germany.
I mean is that the right way to think about that that this transaction is fully funded on a permanent basis at about a penny? No that's not the way to look at that at all.
Okay.
I mean obviously three months down the road we've got three months better visibility into 2014 and so we continue to refine and adjust as necessary there is nothing more to look in that.
Okay.
Was there any notable offset to that because if Germany in future winning more than few cents or something is there any interesting offset? Jr.</strong> Keep in mind Michael we give you our estimates we are not necessarily we are including what we are highly confident in achieving and though yeah.
Okay.
And then one or two other ones here.
Just in terms of underwriting or -- can you kind of walk through kind of how you thought about underwriting this transaction.
I mean is that a market you looked at for some time and then when the books came out you had already done the due diligence or the books came out then you kind of started looking at it can you just tell us about the process? Jr.</strong>  Are you talking about the one in Germany? Yes.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah absolutely Mike we have been looking at doing something cross-border literally since the company was started 10 years ago.
We found a lot of opportunities going all way back many years to opportunities in Australia some in Latin America and even some in Asia.
We’ve decided on Western Europe for a number of reasons.
And so literally for the past three plus years we’ve been exploring learning and exploring those particular markets very hard.
So even before this particular opportunity came up we were very excited about the German healthcare market in particular.
This particular opportunity came up to us little more than a year ago.
We spent the better part of the year looking detail into this particular portfolio this particular market within Germany and in the submarkets with the local communities within market where each of these facilities are located.
We reviewed in great detail with our own team and then to since we are making a big step cross-border we decided to have that confirmed.
We had an outside firm with which then spend couple of months doing their own analysis and came to the same conclusions that we did.
So we spent a lot of time reviewing the markets before this opportunity and we spent a lot of time in detail in reviewing this particular transaction in these particular markets once it became available to us literally to the tune of right at a year in this particular situation.
Okay.
Thanks.
One follow-up to that question.
Since this is a different country than the U.S.
what was the bidding process like were there other entities I assume not REITs because it sounds like they have REITs in Germany.
So like who are the interested parties when these sorts of assets become available? Jr.</strong> There were other opportunity funds real estate opportunity basic funds in the U.S.
and there were a large number of sovereign wealth funds located in places like the Middle East a lot of interest in the properties no one with the healthcare experience like we had and the ability that they sell to grow with the company in their acquisition mode.
And then could you just give us an update on the [Emeris] emergency room developments kind of how the economics is shaking out with those? Jr.</strong> They are doing outstanding Rob.
They are so far ahead of where we thought they would be.
It’s truly been a phenomenal investment.
As you know we don’t give specifics on individual properties for what the coverages are but these are way ahead of where we thought they would be.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Just a couple questions for me.
On the coverage levels and I may have missed this do you have sort of the exact numbers that you have given previously for the three different buckets? I did not give the specifics but we will get those posted on the website.
They are very close to the numbers that I did give though.
And on the guidance the run rate number it seems like some of your sort of previous answer that you had included the German acquisition and I guess you offset in finances given you are highly confident executing that at the second quarter.
Is there anything else that you are highly confident on with the revised guidance that was sort of up a penny? No the guidance we gave this morning is run rate guidance based on what you see what we have what the capital structure is right now without anticipation of any new capital transactions or further acquisition.
Okay.
And you mentioned one of these maturities in 2014 having option to sort of repurchase the asset what's your expectation what do you think that they will execute that purchase option on that $2 million in rent on an annualized basis? Yeah we probably wouldn't speculate on a call as to what we think is going to happen.
The reason that bring that up is again just to confirm that we really we don't have any lease maturities coming due.
Is it possible? Of course that this operator could elect to repurchase in which case we will make a very strong profit on that purchase and redeploy the capital.
But the handicap whether they will simply renew or repurchase that would be hard for us to do.
Thanks guys.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Aldag for closing remarks.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Matthew.
We certainly appreciate all of your interest today.
As always if you have any questions don't hesitate to call my call myself Steve or Charles.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for joining today’s conference.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a very good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2013 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Bryon and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and year end 2013 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in the lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.
- Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Charles and thank all of you for joining us today for our fourth quarter year end 2013 Medical Properties Trust earnings call.
For 2011 our normalized FFO was $0.71 per share.
For 2012 it was $0.90 per share.
And for 2013 our normalized FFO per share was $0.96 that is a 35% increase in normalized FFO per share over a two-year period.
And more importantly we ended 2013 with an FFO run rate for 2014 of $1.10 per share using the midpoint of our range.
This amount represents a 55% increase over two years.
Remember that we do not have to do any new acquisitions to achieve the $1.10 FFO per share for 2014.
The $1.10 is based on all the acquisitions in place at 12/31/13 and produces a run rate FFO payout of 76%.
And remember the $1.10 FFO run rate that we announced this morning is not guidance for 2014.
This $1.10 is what we said it was a 12/31/13 in place FFO run rate.
This does not include any acquisition activity for 2014 which we have guided this morning to be $500 million for 2014.
We expect every acquisition we make in 2014 to be immediately accretive.
We achieved this remarkable growth through a steady and strategically accomplished acquisitions plan over the past two years which allowed us to increase our revenue by 79% since 2011.
During the same period our total shareholder return for MPT shareholders was 43%.
In 2012 we made $800 million in investments.
In 2013 we made approximately $700 million in investments.
Prior to 2011 our average annual investments had been $280 million per year.
We feel very good about our growth prospects for 2014.
Over the last few years we have consistently said that we expect to make at least $400 million in annual investments.
The past two years we have greatly exceeded that amount.
Given our recent history and what we are currently working on in our acquisitions pipeline we are going to increase our minimum target this year to $500 million in investments.
The vast majority of these investments should be in general acute care hospitals with the majority being with tenants new to MPT.
In fact while there is no assurance that we can complete any particular acquisition some of our pipeline opportunities are of a size and nature and are at a negotiating stage that it is possible that we could complete agreements for a significant portion of our estimate in the relatively near-term.
We expect to continue to lead the industry in acute care hospital investments our management team has vast experience in hospital operations gives us an edge in underwriting relationships with hospital operators.
Our existing portfolio including only properties we have owned for at least 12 months ended the fourth quarter on generally strong results after a slight softening in the first half of the third quarter.
Our acute care sector and rehab sectors saw essentially flat coverages year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter of approximately 5.8 times and 2.9 time respectively.
Our LTACH saw a year-over-year 18 basis point drop in coverage to about 1.87 times.
In addition all three sectors saw an uptick in overall admissions year-over-year quarter-over-quarter admissions for the acute care portion of our portfolio were essentially flat while both the LTACH and rehabs were up.
As you are aware LTACH legislation was recently passed that defined LTACH admissions criteria and new patient provision for LTACH.
Our operators have performed a review by individual hospital and believe that this legislation should generally be positive for them.
We have previously noted that the operator of the Florence facility and their affiliate at the Gilbert Hospital has not performed as we have expected.
While the Florence facility continues to pay rent we have issued a notice of default and termination for the Gilbert Hospital.
The operator at Gilbert is contesting the termination.
We continue to receive interest from other operators hoping to get an opportunity to become our tenant at both of these locations.
We are currently in detailed negotiations with several potential operators for the Monroe facility.
We hope to have something further to report here in the near future.
In the meantime Monroe continues to hold steady at an operational level well below its recognized potential.
Our various portfolio concentrations continued to improve.
The most important concentration to us is what percent anyone property represents of the whole portfolio.
As of 12/31/13 no one property represents more than 3.7% of our total portfolio.
When looking at the concentration on a state basis three largest concentrations are Texas with 24% of the portfolio California with 17% and Arizona with 6%.
Looking at concentration from an operator standpoint Prime Hospital represents 22.67% RS facility is 15% and IASIS hospitals 11%.
General acute care hospitals represent 53% of our total portfolio with rehab hospitals making up 22.3% and LTACH 14.71% and the remaining in other assets.
And all total MPT owns 8102 hospital beds in the country making us the fourth largest owner compared to other four profit owners.
Not only does MPT hold a leadership positions in terms of beds owned our average investment for acute care bed is $297 000 per bed while the average cost build to replacement facility is approximately $1 million per bed.
These numbers illustrate a barrier to entry which helps to provide protection for our portfolio.
And it also is an indication of the unrecognized value in our portfolio.
Our ideal type investments totaling approximately $110 million continued to perform well.
The Ernest investment returned about 15% while the non-Ernest or ideal type investments returned 44% for the year.
We are delighted with our 2013 results and off to a good start in 2014.
At this time Steve will go over the details of the financial results before we open it up to questions.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
We filed our press release this morning with details about our reported results and I will be happy to take questions about those momentarily.
First though I want to provide some explanatory information about a couple of matters.
Normalized FFO for the year and quarter reflect $0.02 per share of reductions related simply to certain timing differences.
The first is related to the issuance of €200 million in unsecured debt in early October for the acquisition of the German rehab portfolio that did not close until December 1.
When combined with our prior expectation of November 1 closing the overall effect on FFO aggregated about $2.6 million.
The second matter was a $900 000 non-cash adjustment to performance-based share compensation expense to reflect achievement of the performance hurdles established in prior years earlier than previously assumed.
The measure by the way was total return to shareholders that exceeded 43% for the three years ended December 31 2013.
This had a zero effect on aggregate expense or shares awarded for the prior year programs.
Without the impact of these items our normalized FFO would be the $0.26 per share consensus expectation.
The press release also describes the treatment as we have previously announced of the German transfer taxes that were part of the €184 million consideration paid for the RHM portfolio.
On a dollar equivalent basis these taxes were about $12 million and in accordance with accounting requirements were treated as acquisition expense.
The tax amount was nonetheless treated in our agreements as part of the purchase price and our rent is calculated based on the total €184 million.
Our investment in tenant operations continued to perform as expected as Ed just mentioned.
During 2013 we are $19.4 million on about $110 million in investments.
$14 million was earned on our $93.2 million secured loan to Ernest Health a return approximating the 15% coupon.
And as a reminder that is in addition to the $35 million that we recognized in rent and mortgage interest on the Ernest portfolio.
Secondly we earned $5.4 million from investments in another seven separate tenants with an aggregate investment of approximately $16 million.
Since our acquisition of Ernest two years ago their management team has grown the portfolio from 16 to 20 up in running hospitals and is in the process of opening one more and evaluating several additional opportunities.
Remember that for each new Ernest hospital in addition to the very attractive and long-term rental revenues MPT earns at least 80% of operating income and makes little incremental investment in order to achieve those earnings.
At the end of the fourth quarter we made a $20 million mortgage loan secured by a general acute care hospital that provides to us a return based on an interest in the operations of the hospital in addition to the interest on the loan.
Of course no income was recognized on this investment in 2013.
We sold one property in the fourth quarter that had paid approximately $1.4 million in annualized rent.
We realized a cash sales price that’s similar to other recent property sales demonstrated that MPT brings significant value to hospital real estate that it acquires.
This 7-year-old property was paying rents based on our capitalization rate of 12.5% and we sold it at an implied rate of 9.7% resulting in a 29% gain on our original un-depreciated cost and a 14.1% un-levered internal rate of return.
Only one lease term expires in 2014 and that lessee has the option to repurchase the property which generates approximately $2.1 million in annualized rent but we believe it highly unlikely that the lessee will vacate.
Ed described a few minutes ago our full pipeline.
And I will reiterate that we believe the acquisition and development of at least $500 million in new hospital real estate is a good expectation for 2014 and moreover that a meaningful amount of that could be achieved in the relatively near term.
And so far as funding near-term acquisitions we have a number of alternatives from which we will select depending on market conditions at the appropriate time but we have immediately available about $300 million in cash and under our revolver.
For permanent funding of our acquisitions we have long stated our balance sheet and capital principals.
As most of you may remember our leverage target is the 40% to 45% range of net debt to gross assets which generally equates to the 5 to 5.5 times debt-to-EBITDA range.
We’re well in that range at the end of 2013 and in fact we would be comfortable going above that temporarily in the current low interest environment.
But the long-term target will remain the 40% to 45% range.
We will be opportunistic in the capital market as we have a menu of options including common stock preferred stock limited asset sales and we’re currently exploring joint venture type financing.
In addition in the last six months we have completed two very successful unsecured bond financings and we’re also seasoned issuers in the bank and convertible bond markets.
So as we continue to successfully make accretive acquisitions we will evaluate all the options that are available to us and make the decision at the appropriate time to maximize the accretion while maintaining a prudent balance sheet.
The press release this morning included our normalized FFO run rate estimate of between $1.08 and $1.12 per share for all of 2014.
And to remind everyone that estimate is as if we make no new investments in 2014.
We’re confident that our 2014 investments remember our target is at least $500 million will continue to be immediately accretive which of course would result in additional per share FFO.
As usual these estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest rate swaps write-offs of straight line rent property sales foreign currency gains and losses or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change.
Debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments and tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
One last announcement before we go to questions.
We have recently added a new Director of Investor Relations to our team and we expect to get around soon introduce to investors and to analysts Tim (Berryman) over the next few months Charles Lambert will transition many of his Investor Relations responsibilities to Tim.
Charles will stay focused on his ever-growing responsibilities as Managing Director of Capital Markets.
So you will continue to see him in our offices your offices and at conference.
With that we’ll take any questions and I’ll turn the call back to the operator.
Hi yes good afternoon everyone.
Good acquisition pipeline it’s good to hear that lot of these deals could happen pretty quickly.
Could you just talk a little bit about what the mix could be is it more general acute care hospitals is it more post acute care stuff? Jr.</strong> Hey Tayo how are you this morning? I’m terrific.
Jr.</strong> As I stated earlier in the call we do expect that the vast majority of the acquisitions in 2014 to be general acute care hospitals.
Okay.
Could you give a sense of – kind of – it’s going to end up kind of like a target cap rate range of 9 to 10 or do you think it could kind of come in a little bit lower like some other recent transactions? Jr.</strong> Tayo it will continue to be as it was in 2013 it will be in the mid eight so all the way up to a 12.
Okay.
That’s great.
And then second question on Ernest that portfolio is growing pretty quickly.
Could you give us a sense of what the EBITDA Ernest at this point versus when you initially underwrote the deal?  Well we underwrote the deal Tayo EBITDA and about $15 million if I recall going back two years.
And since then that portfolio of the 16 original hospitals has grown modestly.
There were some hospitals that were in ramp up at that time.
So there has been some modest growth there and of course we’ve added or Ernest has added as of now four additional up and running hospitals.
So they continue to ramp up.
So the long answer is we don’t have to disclose today an EBITDA number.
If we did it would not be very helpful because of the four hospitals and one more that they’re about to open that are in the early ramp up phases.
So I’ll leave it at that.
The four new hospitals these are just recently opened so you really haven’t kind of put a EBITDA and just those assets yet? Jr.</strong>  That’s correct.
Yes but I think what we have said in the past is typically if you look at the Ernest model they got a template they have because their hospitals are generally similar from market-to-market.
EBITDAR is projected at between $4 million and $5 million for (coffee).
Yes.
And then the rent just to make things easy comes off the top of that at about $1.5 million.
So it leaves between $2.5 million and $3.5 ish million of EBITDA keeping in mind then that MPT gets 80% of that for no incremental investment.
Yes.
That’s among other things one of the real attractions from the beginning with the Ernest acquisition.
Got it.
So you’re pretty comfortable with this step up in the – for the loan from 7% to 10%?  Absolutely.
Okay.
Yes absolutely.
There is a good point to make that beginning in January it did step up to the 10%.
Okay.
And then just last one from me before I get off.
I kind of missed the full commentary on Gilbert and the lease termination there.
Could you just go over that again one more time? Jr.</strong>  Sure Tayo.
There is not a whole lot to say at this point.
This is the same group of two hospitals that we have with this operator that we’ve talked about for the last few earning calls.
And we terminated we noticed the termination of the lease for Gilbert very recently the operator there has contested that and that’s kind of where we are at this point.
And do you have an operator kind of lined up good to go once you could kind of get them out? Jr.</strong>  Well I’ll say what we’ve said historically and what I said again this morning is that we have a number of people that would like to be the operator there.
Fair enough.
Alright.
Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Tayo.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Karin.
Just following up on Tayo’s last question.
What’s the rent on the Gilbert Hospital and do you expect to have any impact on your rental payments from either Florence or Gilbert in 2014?  No we Karin we do not to answer the second part of your question we do not expect at this time to impact earnings.
First of all your question is we have not in a number of years given specific property-by-property cap rates or revenue.
Okay.
So your current expectation is that Gilbert it continues to pay rent through the process and then there will be no interruption between them leaving in a new operator potentially? Well I think to be a little bit more specific which is important when there was issues like this involve.
We expect no impact certainly no material impact on future earnings based on the Gilbert and Florence situation.
Okay.
Next question is how much RIDEA income do you expect in 2014 what’s baked into the run rate number that you gave us? The same as 2013.
We’re still –the biggest part obviously is Ernest and the $93 million loan that has a coupon of 15 Tayo just pointed out that that pay rate increases to 10% as of January.
So that is expected to remain about the same.
And then the remainder which although is $5 million which is not a big number in the scheme of things.
We’re not anticipating in our guidance this morning any material increase or decrease in that number.
Great thanks.
And then last question could you just tell us what the interest rate is on the new Alecto mortgage as well as what the lease yields lease yield was on the three developments that you opened in the fourth quarter? The Alecto relationship is again it’s a RIDEA structure and there is a floor on the interest rate and there is no ceiling but it’s based on a percentage of Alecto’s earnings.
And the interest rate is we again – we don’t give specific cap rates or interest rates on particular properties.
Jr.</strong> Karin it is… (indiscernible).
Jr.</strong> Pardon me.
Just looking for some help as we’re just trying to model that investment and how it’s going to contribute to FFO next year? Jr.</strong> Yes Karin it is in the range that I mentioned just a few minutes ago in answering Tayo’s question and it is at the upper end of that range.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just the lease yield that you ended up getting on the three development completions? Jr.</strong> That is in line with what you’ve seen for those types of developments over the last few years.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Dan.
Hi I guess one of the questions I had is in terms of the acquisition environment.
Are you seeing – as you see some increased acquisition volume are you seeing some net increased competition as well and is that affecting cap rates.
So it just seems like there is not a lot of people still not a lot of people operating in your space in terms of investing.
And just trying to understand if you’re seeing any more competition out there what (REITs) or private equity? Jr.</strong> Dan it’s not really private equity.
The private equity is continues to be what has been for the last couple of years since the credit crunch which is that they see us as a great complement to their funds which is not the same and that you saw before the credit crunch.
So from that aspect it has worked very well.
From increased competition we have seen some there certainly has been some other public statements made by some of our peers that have shown interest in acute care hospital sector we think that that’s been very good overall but we have not had to greatly compress our cap rates especially – particularly recently because of that competition there obviously was some in the – some of the acquisitions that we made last year.
Okay.
Do you think there is any incentive upon hospital systems given the changes in the healthcare reform maybe to – for them to try to consolidate the industry hospital systems to get larger? Have you seen any of that at all or is that just not maybe the true word about other items to go worry about buying another hospital.
But just trying to understand if hospital themselves offer any competition for you? Jr.</strong> Not competition the consolidation it works very well for us.
And the consolidation continues to be what we’ve show than it has been over – at least the last 12 to 18 months which was primarily the four profit sector acquiring not for profit hospitals in making the conversion.
Obviously you got the transactions like CHS and HMA but that’s not the norm.
The norm is more not – four profits acquiring hospitals from entities such as dignity and others.
Okay okay.
In terms of the $500 million investment outlook is that mainly going to be acquisitions or you think there are some opportunities to provide some lines in there as well which you historically done? Jr.</strong> Well primarily the acquisitions but let me just clarify to make sure we’re talking about the same thing.
We will continue from time-to-time due to loans that are structured as a loan but from our standpoint we view them as the same type of investments is our leases as they are done and a loan structure is primarily done for tax reasons not for economic reasons for economic they look identical to each other.
So from our standpoint it’s the same type of investment that you’ve been seeing from us in the past.
Okay.
And then one last question on G&amp;A I don’t know if I heard you.
Did you give a G&amp;A forecast for next year.
I was just – it seems like the fourth quarter G&amp;A even taking out the performance awards seems a little bit elevated at least to what we had modeled.
So just trying to understand what’s moving in G&amp;A there for 2014? No we didn’t break out the guidance into G&amp;A.
It’s obviously is baked into that $8 to $12.
Okay.
On a dollar number do you think it will be higher than 2013.
I was just trying to understand if it – if I should model that run rate closer to 4Q minus the performance award? Jr.</strong> I would suggest not there are a few items that in the aggregate even in the aggregate are not material.
But I think that’s what you are seeing maybe a little bit of increase and we don’t expect those to repeat.
Okay okay that’s good enough for me.
That’s all I have.
Thanks.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Dan.
Hi.
This is actually Caitlin.
Wondering if you could just tell us what the average cap rate you are expecting is for your acquisition pipeline? Jr.</strong> Actually we don’t give the specifics and we haven’t in quite some time now.
What we do give is what I gave earlier is that our range continues to be very close to what it was for 2013 which is a very wide range and it runs from the mid ‘08 all the way up to ‘12.
Okay.
And then is that on a GAAP or cash basis? Jr.</strong> That’s a going in cash basis.
Could you say anything about the GAAP basis? Well on the GAAP basis typically you will see our escalators are CPI-based with a significant amount of them having a floor.
The floor is generally around that 2%.
So if you build in a 2% guaranteed increase over 15 years you are probably looking at another roughly 150 bps to a GAAP increment to add to the cash.
Okay thank you.
Thanks hi.
Jr.</strong> Hi Mike.
Hello.
I guess first Florence and Gilbert so just to kind of rundown everything you can here so the lease was terminated at Gilbert.
Is there a lease in place still at Florence? Jr.</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> Okay.
And are you getting rent payments of both or not? Jr.</strong> Well at Florence yes and Gilbert yes but we just announced the termination or just noticed the termination which they contested.
So we haven’t gone far enough to see what’s going to happen next.
But you were getting a rent payment up until then.
Yes I think we’ll just leave it at what Ed said Mike and I would reiterate though that we expect no impact in 2014 from either the Gilbert or Florence Hospital.
Got it.
Okay and then just two other questions on this one not to beat a dead horse but so it seems like you are still booking FFO on each of those I think that’s the case but what specifically happened to Gilbert as to why now why terminate now considering it seems like most of the discussion has been around Florence up until then? Jr.</strong> Yes.
Again Mike it is subject to litigation and we just really can’t go into details and really again given the context that we expect no certainly no material impact from either of the facilities during 2014.
Okay.
So the acquisition guidance of about $500 million should we assume that’s all domestic or is a chunk of that overseas as well? Jr.</strong> The vast majority of that is domestic.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> I didn’t mean to imply that there will absolutely be any international.
Okay got it.
And then last question I know you talked about purchase options and any purchase option for 2014 that you said probably wouldn’t be exercised but what’s the dollar? Mike that’s not what he said.
What he said was that we that their options are to purchase renew release or vacate and that we don’t have any expectations of them vacating.
They may do one or the other.
Got it.
And how big is the dollar amount if it’s a purchased option is exercised excuse me? Jr.</strong> It’s a $2.1 million rental annualized rent.
Got it.
Okay and last one if we are looking out to ‘15 is there anything substantial that could hit in 2015 as well? Jr.</strong> We have got two leases maturing and off the top of my head well I am being given a note here yes we have got two leases maturing that we expect will renew.
That of course was not assured but we expect they will maintain the lease and maintain occupancy.
Got it.
Okay that was it.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Ed can you give us some additional color on the LTACH patient criteria and how it will positively impact your tenants? Jr.</strong> Well Mike some of it is you remember that I gotten off start in the medical field in the rehab hospital business and it’s not much different from the time that when I started that in the early 80s and the vast majority of our patients there were orthopedic.
And now the vast majority of them are neurological.
It’s very similar situation that we have here in the LTACH now that everyone knows what the patient criteria is.
It will be easier for them to operate.
And what it essentially does is it forces the operators to go to a much higher acuity patient.
And we believe with all of our discussions with them prior to the announcement and then post the announcement that all of them will make the adjustments well and that they will continue to be able to operate in basically a status quo type situation.
I know it’s not going to be effective for some time now but when it does become effective do you believe that coverage ratios will drop at all or how is that going to impact it? Jr.</strong> Yes I don’t think and our operators don’t think that it will drop as it relates to the patient criteria.
Now there is a lot that can happen between now and 2015 with all of the other aspects that could go either way.
But our operators are not expecting to see their coverages drop as it relates to this patient criteria that goes into effect in roughly two years.
Okay.
How much of the RIDEA income that you generated from the LTACH business? Jr.</strong> Not much.
I remember the entire portion of the RIDEA transaction as our overall portfolio is extremely small and a portion of the RIDEA that comes from just the LTACH portion I don’t have the exact percentage but it’s not a large dollar amount.
Okay.
Is it mostly general acute care hospitals? Jr.</strong> No.
It’s LTACHs rehabs and two acute cares.
Now that second bucket that we talked about the $5.4 million of course Ernest again makes up the significant amount of the total $19 million but aside from that there is a very little income that to tie directly to LTACHs.
Okay.
And then with the Ernest RIDEA income is there any I guess are you recognizing any of that income outside of that 15% loan that you gave them? We have not.
Okay.
And then my last question relates to I guess your outlook that includes the developments but not future acquisitions right? It does.
To the extent that developments are scheduled to come online in 2014 it takes that into account.
Jr.</strong> The development is already underway.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Hi good morning.
Just hoping you could give a little more color on the straight line rent write-off benefit of $0.01 in the fourth quarter and if that was related to Gilbert? Jr.</strong> It’s not.
First of all it’s not a benefit I mean just for background that’s related to the property that we sold.
So of course when you got a lease with fixed steps you have to accrue that I mean that’s what straight line renewal.
So when that lease terminates for any reason then the lessee is not obligate to make those payments any more.
So it’s a non-cash accrual to begin with.
If the lease statement placed for its term it turns around naturally if the lease terminates prior to its natural term then it goes away.
So we sold the property that we mentioned and we had about $900 000 or something like that in straight line rent that was removed.
But there is no benefit to it.
Okay great.
And could you just talk a little bit about how you think of your cost of capital particularly on the equity side as we sort of think about financing acquisitions going forward? How do – sorry….
Jr.</strong> Yes.
As we mentioned when we put together a capital plan depending on the type of capital there is just straight common equity that’s the component of that plan or a funding.
Then we look at different views on equity cost of capital.
I mean we are not big delivers in the black box type models for a lot of smaller stocks but all-in-all we look at the cost of equity depending on different inputs of between 7.5 and 8.5 probably.
Okay great.
And what should we be thinking in terms of any refinancings for 2014? Do you have anything sort of penciled in in terms of terming out any of the line or should that kind of happen as you do acquisitions and what are you thinking in terms of long-term cost of debt? Yes.
We just don’t have much outstanding on the line.
And as you point out it will just kind of be a natural conversion as we add more properties and we continue to manage the balance sheet to those metrics we talked about earlier.
With respect to cost of debt now the most recent deal we did again was the euro deal in September and that was at a 5.75.
Couple of weeks earlier we have done the U.S.
deal at 6.
If you talk to the bankers today they will tell you that we would come in inside of those amounts all things equal.
If you are talking about revolver type or bank financing then obviously it’s a lot lower than that.
Okay.
And just lastly on the – you started out the conversation talking about the significant growth to FFO over the last few years and kind of referenced the payout ratio what should we be thinking about the dividend? Yes.
What we have said for actually number of years now is we want that normalized payout to be kind of right where it is today between 75% and 80% payout on a normalized FFO basis.
Okay thanks guys.
Jr.</strong> Thank you.
Yes thanks for taking my follow on.
Ed in your comments you kind of talked about Monroe it sounded like there were some opportunities to kind of do something with that asset.
Am I reading too much to that? Jr.</strong> No you are not Tayo.
We have good negotiations going on right now with a number of potential operators but I am not going to get really excited yet.
Alright good.
Okay I guess we will wait for news coming out of that then.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Alright.
Jr.
- Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Bryon and thank you all of you for listening in today.
And as always should you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call Charles Steve or myself.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Q1 2014 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Whitley and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our first quarter 2014 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steve Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in the lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles.
Good morning everyone and thank you for listening in on today’s earnings call.
The results announced this mooring for the first quarter show a continuation of the strong rapid growth we’ve experienced over the last two years.
The 2014 first quarter revenue increased 27% and our normalized FFO increased 23% compared to the same time period for 2013.
We are very pleased with where we are at this point in the year.
With acquisition of one hospital for $115 million and the commitment to executed for $205 million in development transactions we continue to feel very good about the $500 million target for 2014.
The acute care facility we acquired for $115 million during the first quarter is Hackensack University Medical Center Mountainside located in Montclair New Jersey.
The facility is operated by legacy partners in a joint venture with Hackensack University Medical Center and produces lease coverage in excess of three times.
The lease is a typical MPT lease for 15 years and renewal options for up to an additional 25 years.
This lease was immediately accretive to MPT and represents our first relationship with a significant not for profit institution.
The two development commitments represent two different existing MPT operators.
Both of these will also be accretive to MPT upon completion.
One is for the development of an acute care hospital for $55 million.
This facility is well under construction at this time the transaction will be structured as a construction loan converting upon completion to a traditional MPT sale leaseback with a term of 15 years with operator extension rights for another 15.
The other is $150 million line to develop a combination of freestanding emergency room and general acute care hospitals.
These facilities will go into a master lease with a 15-year term and operator extension rights for another 15 years.
Because we’ve not closed on these two transactions we cannot provide you with more information and are providing you at this time.
Our pipeline continues to be strong.
The vast majority of what we are working on is acute care hospitals in the U.S.
but we continue to have strong opportunities in both the U.S.
and in Europe.
As we all know there have been recent interest in the acute care hospital segment from other healthcare REITs.
In addition to REITs there has been interest from international sovereign funds that are known for being risk adverse.
While we’ve not seen any negative impact to our acquisition pipeline what it is certainly done is to increase the value of our portfolio.
Late last week we were notified by our tenant community health systems that they do not intend on renewing their lease.
We’ve already had two groups contact us about their interest in the facilities.
We have a full year to find a replacement tenant for these particular hospitals.
As our portfolio grows and matures we are constantly working to provide more information regarding the strength of our portfolio while maintaining the facility specific confidentiality that our tenants require.
In the past we have provided coverage based on total EBITDAR and total rent levels.
While this provides accurate information it can at times cost the larger properties to have an unintended overshadowing impact on the smaller properties.
We’ve analyzed other meaningful ways to present this information.
Today I’m going to present the coverage into formats for each of the three separate categories of facilities we have.
We will provide a simple average and an investment weighted average coverage.
The simple average is just that.
It’s the average of the coverage is for each facility in each category without any adjustment for the size of the investment.
The investment weighted average takes the amount of our investment in each property and produces a weighted average coverage thus the properties with the larger investment will have more importance than the ones with the smaller investment.
We’ve gone back one year to compare trailing 12 months for 2013 and trailing 12 months for 2014.
For the acute care hospitals the simple average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2013 was 4.45 times.
The simple average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2014 was 4.79 times an 8% increase.
The investment weighted trailing 12 months average for the period ending February 28 2013 was 5.25 times.
The investment weighted average trailing 12 months for the period ending 2/28/2014 was 4.83 times an 8% decrease.
For the long-term acute care hospitals the simple average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2013 was 1.9 times.
The simple average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2014 was 1.73 times a 9% decrease.
The investment weighted average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2013 was 2.02 times.
The investment weighted average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2014 was 1.82 times a 10% decrease.
It is important to note here that most of our real tax have seen improvement over the last half of the fourth quarter of 2013 which was continued into the first quarter of 2014.
For the rehab hospitals the simple average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2013 was 2.57 times.
The simple average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2014 was 2.67 times a 4% increase.
The investment weighted average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2013 was 2.53 times.
The investment weighted average trailing 12 months for the period ending February 28 2014 was 2.4 -- 2.64 times a 4% increase.
With the growth of our portfolio over the last few years we’ve continued to improve our diversification including fully funded development our largest tenant Prime Healthcare now represents 21.7% Ernest held 14.8% and IASIS 10.6%.
Our best barometer of diversification is still with us any one property represented of our overall portfolio.
Today no one property represents more than 3.5% of our portfolio.
Acute-care hospitals represent 54% of the portfolio inpatient rehabilitation hospitals 21% LTACH 14% and freestanding ERs are at 3%.
The recently announced CMS proposals for upcoming rate changes this fall all met our expectations.
Obviously the impact on each facility will be different.
However we believe the effect to our acute-care and LTACH portfolio is that there will be little to no change in their revenue from rate changes.
We do expect to see a slight improvement for the inpatient rehabilitation hospitals.
Ernest Health continues to prove to be a very good investment for MPT if you exclude the three facilities that are still in ramp up from their development stage Ernest’s EBITDAR is on track to show a 17.5% increase over when MBT made its investment.
Our growth over the last few years had been carefully planned out and is generated the expected returns.
Our asset growth for 2013 was 33.3% compared to an average of 19.9% for our healthcare peers.
Our revenue growth was 22.4% versus 18.3% for our healthcare REIT peers and our total return was six times more than the average of our peers and 3.3 times more than the RMS.
Steve will now walk you through the details of our financial report.
Thank you Ed.
We filed our press release this morning with details about our reported results and I will be happy to take questions about those momentarily.
First I want to provide some explanatory information about a couple of matters.
Normalized FFO for the quarter of $0.26 reflects $0.01 per share of temporary dilution related to our early March equity offering.
The proceeds of this offering were used to fund the March 31 $115 million acquisition of the Mountainside hospital in New Jersey that Ed mentioned earlier.
As we disclosed in early April we commenced negotiations with the party that we presently believe has the ability to profitably operate the Monroe Hospital in Bloomington Indiana.
We have recently executed a letter of intent with this party.
That provides under certain conditions a period of time for due diligence and exclusive negotiations.
There is no certainty that there will be any transaction with this party.
However we recognize that impairment of $20.5 million in the first quarter and further impairment charges are possible.
Unless we consummate the transaction and begin to receive payments from a new operator we do not expect any effect on future FFO and specifically no effect on our run rate annualized FFO estimates of the Monroe property.
Our investments tenant operations continue to perform as expected.
During 2014’s first quarter we earned $4.5 million on about $110 million in investments as follows.
$4.2 million was earned on our $93.2 million secured loan to Ernest Health Inc.
our return that continues to approximate the 15% coupon on the note and is reflected in interest income.
And of course that’s in addition to the $10 million we recognized in rent and mortgage interest from Ernest in the quarter.
Another $300 000 from investments in another eight separate tenants with an aggregate investment of approximately $16 million was recorded for the quarter.
One of these operating type investments is similar to a percentage rental arrangement whereby in the last two years we had received the maximum participation of about $1 million.
Accounting rules require that we recognize that income only after the revenue hurdles have been achieved which has been in the last half of the recent years.
At the end of the fourth quarter you will remember that we made a $20 million mortgage loan secured by a general acute care hospital that provides to us a base return plus an interest in the operations of the hospital operator.
During the first quarter we recognized a return reflecting approximately 11% the base rate on the mortgage.
In 2015 one tenant has the option to let two leases expire and that tenant has notified us that it will do so.
And Ed commented on this a few minutes ago.
For perspective however for the five-year starting in 2016 leases aggregated -- aggregating an annual average of only 1% of revenue are subject to expiration.
As you heard Ed described we continue to expect another very strong year for acquisitions as more and more operators and acquirers have concluded that sale-leaseback financing should play a meaningful role in their capital strategies.
For near-term acquisition opportunities we have immediately available more than $150 million in cash and another $400 million available under our undrawn revolver.
Last month we successfully completed an offering of 10-year unsecured bonds at historically low rates.
And we are well prepared for near-term funding of our pipeline.
For permanent funding of our acquisitions beyond this $150 million in cash we have long stated our balance sheet and capital principles which we intend to maintain over the long term leverage of between 40% and 45% debt-to-EBITDA of around 5 to 5.5x and a prudent dividend payout ratio of between 75% and 80%.
Early in the first quarter we provided a normalized FFO run rate estimate of between $1.08 and $1.12 per share.
And that estimate was as if we made no new investments in 2014.
Since then we have acquired $115 million general acute care hospital in New Jersey and through timely offerings of about $128 million in equity and $300 million in 10-year bonds we have repaid all amounts that had been drawn on our revolver and provided approximately $150 million in immediately available cash.
And again that does not include the $400 million available under the revolver.
So based on our March 31 balance sheet the scheduled completion of certain developments and the anticipated deployment of approximately $180 million in near-term acquisitions our current run rate estimate ranges from $1.10 to $1.14.
This includes no effect for the approximately $205 million in development commitments we have already discussed and which we expect to commence lease payments in 2015.
Importantly and in line with our long-term guidance practice this is not a fiscal year estimate of normalized FFO.
FFO for any particular period will be impacted by the timing and amounts of acquisitions and financing transactions.
As usual these estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing costs real estate operating costs interest rate swaps write-offs of straight-line rent property sales foreign currency gains and losses or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest rates change debt is refinanced additional debt is incurred assets are sold other operating expenses vary income from investments in tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
With that we will take any questions and I will turn the call back to the operator.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Just a quick question on the tenant not renewing could you just kind of quantify what the current rents are right now to get a sense of what the total exposure is there? Total rent on those two properties is about $4.5 million.
That’s helpful.
And then the transaction good deal flows during the quarter.
Again you guys are still closing so I know there is a limited amount of information you can provide.
Could you provide us with a sense if the cap rates on the transactions are kind of within the guidance range if historically given between 8% to 9%? It’s actually between it’s between 8% and about 11% Tayo.
But it is in that range.
And within which range? Is it 8% to 9% or 8% to 11%? The 8% to 11%.
All right.
That’s right.
And then Monroe it’s kind of good to see the letter of intent and the due diligence going on.
Is there anything that you can think of that would not -- that would prevent that transaction not going through? Well I mean there are a number of things Tayo.
There are regulatory issues.
The perspective buyer has to finance the transaction.
We certainly believe it’s well able to.
And it has a bold discretionary diligence out if they so choose so any number of things that could stop it or could change the terms which we’ve at least negotiated in the LOI.
And what’s the -- I mean what’s the timing? Does it have a 60-day due diligence period or when would you kind of expect the year on that? We think that if it works out that it will be a -- clearly will be a second half transaction.
But we would hope to know with some further certainty within the next 60 to 90 days whether they will be taking the next steps which would be actually committing meaningful earnest money.
Okay.
And then just the last one from me.
Did you happen to look at the hospitals that were acquired by Ventas in the U.K.
and kind of what are you kind of seeing internationally and the opportunities to kind of plan expand further either in Germany U.K.
France or one of the European countries you may be looking at? Tayo we did see those properties about a year ago.
We do have a number of opportunities in Europe.
It’s the same areas of Europe that we’ve discussed in the past.
It’s obviously all of Western Europe but at this time I don’t want to get into the specifics of some of the transactions that we are negotiating.
Okay.
All right.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
With regards to the tenant that’s not renewing could you kind of give us an idea of what the current coverage ratios are on those properties? Mike we don’t give the specifics of individual properties but I can tell you that the two properties combined do have a positive coverage.
Have you had any discussions with prospective tenants yet I guess take those assets? Yes.
As a said just a few minutes ago we’ve actually were notified by two prospective people last week before we got the official notice.
And then do you expect I guess any type of meaningful roll down in rents or is it going to be remain only or mainly largely the same? Well we feel good about these properties and their prospects.
We have a year to before the lease is at its end and it’s too early to say at this point.
Okay.
And then as you indicated you are starting to see more competition coming into the hospital space including some other public REITs that are out there.
Is this competition causing I guess you to reduce your yield expectations on some investments? It has not affected us at all at this point.
As we’ve said for a very long time that we welcome the competition.
We think it’s very good for us as a company.
It obviously helps to validate our model and our portfolio and it helps to educate the potential customer out there.
Okay.
And then is your 2014 guidance still the same one that you gave last quarter of 108 to 112? Well Mike again that’s the run rate guidance.
And just to go back that 108 to 112 was based on the in-place portfolio at that time plus the expected development that we expect to complete in 2014.
If you reset that guidance and annualized run rate guidance as of today based on the assumptions I gave earlier which is basically we’ve now acquired the $115 million New Jersey hospitals.
We expect another $180 million plus or minus in the relatively near term.
And use of the $150 million in cash on the balance sheet that would yield an annualized run rate of $1.10 to $1.14.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Bernstein with Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Dan.
I just had some questions on the new developments for First Choice and in particular just trying to understand maybe the differences in the economic model again between urgent care and the ER and why you want to continue to go ahead and expand the emergency room developments here.
What’s the economic model that you said likely are you concerned about anything in terms of overdevelopment of that property type? Two things Dan.
One is that in the prepared remarks we didn’t say specifically who the tenant was.
But secondly of our freestanding ERs in general as they relate to a typical doc in the box scenario and states that recognize freestanding ERs they are truly an emergency room that can handle emergency situations whereas a typical doc in the box that we are all familiar with is just somewhere where you go for preventive care type situations.
This has the full medical ability to handle your basic emergency needs.
Most of the freestanding ERs that we have are affiliated with an acute care hospital in some form or fashion.
This new line that we just announced today that we’ve got a commitment on but we still haven’t yet closed is a combination of freestanding ERs and emergency rooms.
It’s a model that actually has a general acute care -- I’m sorry general acute care hospital that sits in a cluster if you will with the freestanding ERs around it.
Okay.
I was just looking at the development projects in your supplemental and I saw the First Choice stuff and I just presumed it was First Choice.
But I guess not.
And what is the size of the property that you are looking to build here? I mean if you add any emergency rooms with I guess inpatient emergency rooms with this freestanding ER you’re looking at like 15 000 20 000 square feet versus 5000 square feet or something for an ER.
Is that the way to think about the size of the property that you’re going to be building perhaps? The general acute care hospital portion of it is typically going to be something in the neighborhood of a 20-bed hospital.
And then the freestanding ERs around that will just be the emergency room part of it that will be about 10 000 square feet.
Okay.
And then the other item that I was trying to think about here was the straight-line rents for the year.
What straight-line rents are you thinking about in your current guidance? And I guess we had been modeling in a little bit higher than what you reported.
So I was just trying to figure out more of a maintenance item what are you forecasting for straight-line rents for the year? Just to be clear in comparing to your model Gilbert Hospital of course filed bankruptcy after we had terminated that lease.
So upon termination of the lease we wrote off the straight-line receivable.
With respect to Gilbert we continue to receive rent on time fully every month at least the base rent.
And we actually expect that Gilbert has a very good chance of coming out of bankruptcy and maintaining operations in that facility under a new newly structured lease.
So that’s the reason the accounting rules make us write off -- let off that straight-line.
Okay.
It was just the write off the straight-line and then it goes back up next quarter.
Right.
And then on the 8% to 11% yield you’re talking about those are cash non-GAAP right? That’s correct.
Okay.
I’ll hop off.
That’s all I have for now.
Thanks.
Thanks Dan.
Your next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Juan.
Just a question.
Ed I think you mentioned more interest from sovereign funds looking at hospitals.
Have you guys thought about potentially doing any dispositions or joint ventures of existing assets to prove up your NAV and help fund acquisitions? And how do you think about that potential opportunity if it does exist to fund acquisitions versus using your equity? Let me address that in reverse order first.
We do view that as a way to prove up the value of our assets and we have done some select sales over the last number of years.
They haven’t been anything significant in size but we have sold some properties for that exact purpose at very nice gains.
We have talked about for years a joint venture type model it is something that we are intrigued about and it is something that like other avenues of capital we look at from time to time.
Great thank you.
And with regards to the earlier question about the ERs and I guess clustering it with an acute care hospital what you guys have done with First Choice today? Are those just freestanding ERs that are not associated with hospitals today? And can you just comment on the supply picture in the markets that First Choice operates in? Sure.
Some of the First Choice facilities are affiliated with various acute care hospitals.
They don’t share an ownership as is the case with some of our other tenants in their emergency hospital models.
But with First Choice and some other hospitals they are indeed affiliated.
The affiliation is something I think you’ll see more of from a going forward standpoint.
Obviously there are a number of companies that are doing their emergency rooms but in all of the facilities the First Choice has opened to-date and the ones that we’ve underwritten for them we feel very comfortable and they performed very well.
Okay great.
And with regards to the coverage I think that the new disclosure was great.
It might save yourself some time putting it down in a press release.
But is there anything below sort of 1.1 times? Is there any way to quantify what percentage of rents or NOI that maybe if it is in fact the case? Juan there are a couple of facilities that are below that number.
There are a couple that act as -- two separate facilities but act as one facility and whereas one of the facilities is below that number but together they are above that number.
We certainly will look at seeing if we can provide any more clarification in putting together some type of grouping.
Okay great.
I’ll leave it at that.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Karin Ford with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
My first question is on the Monroe sale.
Is that expected to be a full outright sale of the facility or a joint venture? And do you expect to get any cash out of the deal? Well yes to answer last question yes we expect significant cash.
And the answer to the first part of the question is also yes.
It’s a sale structured currently it would be a sale of the real estate and then a passive participation by MPT in go forward operations.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Second question if the Gilbert Hospital comes out of bankruptcy as you expect it to do you anticipate there to be a change in rent under a new structured lease? Yes.
The answer is yes.
We do.
Probably as far as I could go with that we absolutely would expect improvement in the lease terms all the way around for us.
Okay.
So likely increased rent under a new lease? That is our expectation.
Okay that’s helpful.
The $180 million acquisition can you give us a sense on timing do you expect that to be a 2Q item or more in the second half? Well that’s not necessarily a particular acquisition.
We have a very robust pipeline.
And so the $180 million is really kind of a weighted handicapping of a fungible group of assets and we would hope in the near term.
And by that I would mean certainly by the end of the third quarter we would hope to have placed that in either one or a series of different acquisitions.
Okay.
And what are the strategic implications of completing your first deal with the nonprofit? Do think this opens you guys up to a bunch of additional opportunities on the nonprofit side? Yes we do but we don’t think it’s going to be a flood as we’ve stated before the not-for-profit generally move at a different pace than the for-profits.
But just having someone actually pull the trigger on it I think will make a difference when we’re calling on people.
Okay.
And then just one more strategic question.
You guys added a lot of development this quarter what is your tolerance for development risk? Do you have sort of a size of the pipeline relative to the entity that you’re comfortable with or that you wouldn’t want to go over? Karin it’s more related to the specifics of the individual developments.
If you look at the development of the freestanding ERs and acute-care hospitals if you look at them on a standalone basis they are very small in relative terms on an individual basis.
So it’s different than looking at it as a total $150 million transaction.
On the other general acute-care hospitals that we have a $55 million it’s with a very strong operator it’s with an operator that we know very well and we feel very comfortable with that particular transaction in that particular market.
From an overall standpoint it’s just happened that those items hit in the early part of the year as opposed to the latter part we do not have much development in the pipeline going forward.
Okay.
And what type of interest rate do you get on the construction loan during construction?  We get the same rate during construction as we get post-construction in the lease rate and that the accounting rules do not allow us to recognize that whether or not we collect it.
But similar to most construction loans it’s funded in the commitment in any case and rolls up into the lease space.
And then we collect compounded lease based interest once the facility opens.
And the yields on all of those are within that sort of 8% to 11% range that you talked about before right? Correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
(Indiscernible) calling in for Mike.
First question was can you just give us some background on LHP Hospital Group in Mountainside how long they’ve been in operation how many facilities they operate? LHP was founded some years ago.
The management team comes out of the Trinity Hospital Group that was acquired by community.
And again we’re talking 5 to 7 years ago off the top of my head very very well respected operating group.
And it is financed by CCMP an extremely large sophisticated private equity fund out of Canada.
I think they operate six hospitals and all of their hospitals are joint ventured with not-for-profits about 1 300 beds been around since 2008 but as Steve pointed out the management team came out of the Triad Hospital Company.
Okay.
And then when you said in your press release that you closed on First Choice facilities in 1Q with the next targeted construction cost of $52 million.
Does that just mean that you’re starting those developments now and when will they be completed around? The first part is yes and they generally take about 6 to 8 months for completion.
Okay.
And for the $75 million hospital development that you have a letter of intent on what sort of development premium do you need for the extra risk of a development compared with what the hospitals stabilized cap rate would be if you had just bought it? A lot of different variables go into that depending on who the operator is.
The security whether it’s a replacement facility or what not but typically it’s between half a point to a point.
Okay.
That’s helpful thank you.
And then last question I know this wasn’t discussed much today but what have you learned about your Germany investment and the markets since taking ownership of it? And do you think they will be your only overseas investment for a while? The Germany facilities are doing exceptionally well.
That company has made some additional acquisitions on some turnaround facilities that we hope to have an opportunity to finance down the road.
We are very happy with that whole entire relationship.
As we’ve always said we did not think this was going to be our only investment.
We believe that we will continue to make investments primarily in that European market similar to the Germany market.
Okay that’s it for me.
Thank you.
For the next question we have a follow-up from Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hey guys just one quick follow-up.
Steve when you are talking about the guidance and the run rate I just wanted to make sure I understood you correctly.
You said that included that $115 million of investments in the New Jersey hospital the $180 million I guess of a few different potential acquisitions that you see in your pipeline.
And did you say another $150 million of cash put to work? No.
What I meant there Juan was we have a $150 million in cash available now.
So that would go obviously to fund most of that $180 million of kind of fungible properties.
Great okay.
Thanks.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
There are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Ed.
Please proceed.
Thank you Whitley and thank all of you for joining us today.
As always if you have any questions don’t hesitate to call.
We’ll be at NAREIT in June.
We look forward to seeing many of you there.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Q2 2014 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Leanne and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
But we will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Charles Lambert.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our second quarter 2014 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by the Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and good morning everyone.
And thank you for listening in on today’s earnings call.
Both the quarter ended June 2014 and the month of July have been very productive for MPT.
As you’ll recall in the early part of this year we guided to a $500 million acquisition target.
To-date we have closed on $320 million or 64% of that number.
We’re right on track to reach our goal of $500 million before the end of the year.
Each of the acquisitions of existing hospitals we have closed on and the remaining existing hospital acquisitions we’re working on are all expected to be immediately accretive to FFO.
With our acquisition of the Circle facility in Bath we have continued our diversification strategy through investing in outstanding healthcare markets in Western Europe.
Circle is a company that we’ve been working with for more than a year.
They have recently received accolades for their work with the UK’s National Health Service to dramatically turnaround two of their facilities.
MPT closed on the $49.9 million purchase of Circle Bath Hospital’s real estate assets in July with the sale leaseback to Circle is to healthcare operator for initial 15 year lease term with an extension option for an additional 15 years.
This hospital was opened in March of 2010 in Bath UK which is approximately a 100 miles west of London with the population of 95 000 and includes 28 inpatient beds and 21 day beds across approximately 70 000 square feet.
Circle Bath is distinguished by state-of-the-art accommodations and clinical and patient services.
Circle Bath has experienced a strong trajectory of growth reporting 10% and 12% year-over-year growth in 2013 volume and revenue respectively.
Circle Bath was ranked in the top 10 in England for patient improvement in hip and knee operations by the Health and Social Care Information Center and won a national award for nursing practice of 2013 Laing &amp;Buisson Private Healthcare Awards.
This transaction represents first transaction in the UK and its 12 facility in Europe.
Circle is on the leading edge of the evolution of the UK’s NHS strategy to integrate its services with both privately owned hospitals and private insurance reimbursement.
We also closed on our new $150 million development line with the Adeptus.
Adeptus is the parent company for the facilities doing business as First Choice ER.
18 facilities are being developed or are already open for business under the original $100 million commitment.
Of the MPT owned facilities three opened prior to Q2 2014 six opened in Q2 2014 and three opened in July of 2014.
The remaining six facilities are scheduled to open in Q3 or early Q4 2014.
In the aggregate the facilities are outperforming volume projections.
At the end of Q2 2014 Adeptus Health completed its initial public offering at a price of $22 per share.
This timing is way ahead of our -- of the expectations we had only a year ago when we started the development of our initial First Choice facility.
The shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on June 25th [Technical Difficulty] yesterday at $25.29 per share.
Net proceeds from initial public offering we used to repay a portion of Adeptus outstanding indebtedness with the remaining proceeds being use for general corporate purposes.
The company expects to have 53 freestanding emergency rooms in operation by year end.
Our new $150 million master funding and development agreement with Adeptus is expected to fund one the development of additional emergency room facilities; the development of licensed general acute care hospitals; and the acquisition of existing general acute care hospitals.
The new master lease is call supported with the original master lease from 2013.
The new master lease has a 15 year initial term with three extension options for five years each and annual rent increases based on CPI.
Now turning to our existing portfolio for our acute care hospitals coverage was slightly up first quarter over second quarter.
On a portfolio wide basis without regard to investment size the EBITDAR coverage grew from 4.6 times to 4.73 times.
On an investment weighted average basis it grew from 4.49 times to a 4.64 times.
For our LTACH coverage also grew slightly first quarter over second quarter.
Based on a portfolio wide basis again without regard to investment size the LTACH coverage grew from 1.86 times to 1.9 times.
On an investment weighted basis the coverage grew for 1.75 times to 1.8 times.
For our rehabs coverage was essentially flat the portfolio wide coverage without regard to investment size went from 2.6 times to 2.56 times.
The weighted investment average went from 2.48 to 2.45.
Our investments in tenant operations continue to perform as expected.
During the second quarter we earned $4.7 million on about a $110 million in investments which equates to approximately 17% on an annualized basis.
The $4.7 million is broken out as follows; $3.7 million was earned on our $93.2 million secured loan to Ernest Health a return that continues to approximate 15% coupon on the note and is reflected in interest income.
And over course that is in addition to the $10 million we recognized in rent and mortgage interest from the Ernest this quarter.
Another $1 million from investment and another 8 separate tenants with an aggregate original investment of approximately $16 million was recorded for the quarter.
One of these operating type investments was associated with the facility that was sold in the third quarter.
During 2014 we had only recorded about $100 000 related to that property and in the last two years we had received the maximum participation of our about $1 million.
So obviously those revenues will no longer recur after the sale date.
It’s important to know that this $1 million is not included in our runrate FFO estimates.
At the end of the fourth quarter you will also remember that we made a $20 million mortgage loan secured general acute care hospital that provides to us a base return plus an interest in the operations of hospital operator.
During the first half of the year we recognized the return reflecting approximately 11%.
Some of you will recall that during the height of recession in April of 2009 we had one facility closed.
We were able to re-lease this facility to a new operator in June of that year under very strong terms.
As a part of that re-lease we gave the new tenant a purchase option that allowed them to purchase the facility at their election this summer.
They have elected to make that purchase again this is a very strong indication of the success of our underwriting despite having a tenant that was unable to withstand the pressure of the recession the value of the real estate was proven within operator’s efforts resulted in a highly profitable facility enabling them to exercise this purchase option.
We are delighted with this outcome and it is another great success story which continues to prove the strength of our underwriting.
We continue to be excited about the future of MPT with our new almost $1 billion credit facility we have more than sufficient liquidity to take advantage of the great opportunities we are working on in the U.S.
and in Western Europe.
We are looking forward to finishing out the second half of 2014 strong and to a very bright 2015.
Steve?  Thanks Ed.
I'll jump right into the numbers because they are right in line with what I think everyone was expecting.
So let me just summarize briefly.
Then I'll take a few minutes to address a few abnormal things and we can reaffirm our outlook and go into questions.
Normalized FFO was reported this morning for the quarter was $0.23 per diluted share that's 8% year-over-year for the quarter and also for the six months ended June 30.
As Ed just described we have committed about $320 million to our 2014 acquisition target of $500 million.
Today we have almost $200 million in cash on the balance sheet.
So we have the capacity to meet our $500 million acquisition target without any external capital.
Ed also pointed out the strength of our pipeline so we are enthusiastic about the likelihood of being able to invest that cash in the foreseeable future.
And of course we also have a completely undrawn revolving credit facility of $775 million.
Let's just provide a little perspective on the pre-dramatic and immediate impact that are relatively modest sequence of acquisitions would be expected to have on our per share results dividend payout coverage and resulting dividend growth and market considerations about our growth rate FFO multiple cost of capital and other valuation metrics.
With respect to our capital.
First I'll remind you that you can review the details of our capital structure on page 5 of the supplemental when you have a few minutes.
But in summary and in addition to the revolver availability we have about $1.4 billion of net debt outstanding representing 43% of our undepreciated total assets and 5.4 times EBITDA.
Both of those metrics are well within our general targets for managing the company.
It's possible that we may occasionally temporarily fall below or exceed those targets especially to take advantage of opportunities but our intention would be to revert back to them overtime.
On last quarter’s call we described the possibility that we may complete the transaction involving our Monroe Hospital.
Those negotiations were recently terminated and we have executed a letter of intent with a new and different unrelated party.
We expect the current Monroe tenant to file for bankruptcy protections and accordingly we have written our investment down to the value that we believe is reflective of the real-estate value.
Upon emergence from bankruptcy we expect to enter a new lease agreement that would provide for an initial annual rate of approximately $2.1 million with customary annual escalators and other terms.
We continue to receive rents from the Florence tenant as it navigates the bankruptcy process.
Similarly Gilbert continues to pay rent and appears to be improving its operations.
We remain confident that we will not suffer any material impact from these two properties.
Our investments in tenant operations continue to perform as expected and as Ed has already addressed these I will not belabor the matter but we’ll be happy to address any questions during the Q&amp;A session.
Last quarter we increased our estimate of our annual normalized FFO run rate to between a $1.10 and a $1.14 per share.
You may remember that that estimate included the assumption that we would complete the $180 million acquisitions of a couple of particular projects while it has become increasingly challenging to get those projects to the finish line we did complete the Adeptus and Circle transactions for an aggregate of $200 million.
This is a good demonstration of the strength of our pipeline and acquisition activities.
And then if the timing of certain projects continue to stretch out or even fail to occur in the foreseeable future we are continuing to source other projects that will observe the capital that had be slotted for earlier use.
Accordingly we are maintaining our annualized run rate estimate of between $1.10 and a $1.14 per share.
The timing of the opening of $150 million of new First Choice assets is not yet certain although as we noted the First Choice team will open the 18 facilities that we initially financed almost a year ago over a year ahead of expectations.
It's probably important to point out again because we add a lot of new investors with every quarterly call that it is our long held policy that when we provide future estimates this is not an estimate of normalized FFO for any particular year or quarter.
Our estimate of $1.10 to $1.14 is what we expect our existing portfolio of properties and future acquisitions along with our existing capital structure would generate if we added new assets or access no additional capital.
The actual annual reported FFO per share will be different because we plan to continue our growth which will create everchanging revenue expenses cost of capital and share count outstanding all of which is further complicated by impracticability of precisely predicting the timing and amount of acquisitions and financing transaction.
Further and as usual these estimates do not include the effects if any of debt refinancing cost real estate operating cost interest swaps write-offs of straight line rent property sales foreign currency gains and losses or other non-recurring or unplanned transactions.
In addition this estimate will change if market interest change.
Debt is refinanced.
Additional debt is incurred assets are old other operating expenses vary income from investments in tenant operations vary from expectations or existing leases do not perform in accordance with their terms.
With that we will take any questions and I will turn the call back to the operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Juan.
How are you? Just a couple of questions I guess on the Bucks County first.
Could you disclose what the proceeds were or what the cap rate was or the NOI associated with that asset that is now -- that will no longer be there? Proceeds were approximately $35 million.
And again not to repeat what Ed said in his comments necessarily but that was a transaction that we agreed to back in the late spring of 2009.
And as part of that deal again as Ed mentioned we have the opportunity to earn not only a strong rental rate on that $35 million value but a participation in their operations of up to $1 million a year.
And we actually did earn that additional $1 million a year for the last two years.
And post closing which actually happened yesterday we actually closed the transaction yesterday post closing we'll settle up with this year’s participation which will amount to almost another $1 million.
And so the way we look at it although not the way the accounting is that extra roughly $3 million that we have collected and will collect over the lease term is additional proceeds.
So we look at that as being a transaction where during the rental period we got to market rate rent and then we sold it for $35 million and we had previously collected $3 million in participation.
Okay.
Just to clarify what was included in rents I guess part one and then in participation part two in the second quarter figures?  It’s about -- in the second quarter it was about $2 million in rent…  No no that’s annual rental…  Yes.
But and then the total participation for the whole year was about $100 000.
Okay.
And then for the guidance for the run rate 1.10 to 1.14 what is the assumption that all of First Choice is contributing to the bottom line? And is there any other incremental acquisitions other than the Bath and the First Choice in that run rate?  The answer to your first question is yes we assume that the $150 million is disbursed and now paying rents.
And answer to your question is no there are no other potential acquisitions that’s included in that $1.10 to $1.14.
So when I said in my prepared remarks that that run rate includes acquisitions just to be clear it’s only those acquisitions that we know we are going to complete; in other words binding deals that are just waiting to close or as in the case of Adeptus First Choice development transactions that we know will come on line over time.
And so what's the run rate been I guess on a quarterly basis if you have that of how quickly that money to date has been put to work by First Choice or Adeptus? Yes the first deal remember was about this time last year I think we actually executed that agreement in August of 2013.
And the terms of that transaction required them to have everything in place in three years.
Here we are literally a year later.
And as Ed mentioned in his remarks they expect to have every project up and running by the end of this year.
So well over a year actually a year and half or more ahead of their expectations.
Okay.
And then with regards to the $180 million of acquisitions that were flat last quarter any comment on has that gone away or is that still potentially in the works and just taken a bit longer than you initially anticipated? Yes I think it is highly unlikely that those transactions are going to happen in the foreseeable future.
Okay.
And just one last quick one while I’ve got you guys for the UK Bath any rent coverage or cap rates that you can provide on that? Yes.
Of course as you know and I don’t believe blame them we're continuing to ask we don't give cap rates on most specific deals we’ve said that we're doing transactions in a range between 8% and 11%.
In the case of the Bath deal we're right in the middle of that range.
And it’s an acute care hospital that we like to underwrite to a normalized run rate of at least 3 times and this is a going in underwritten going in at 2.3 times after a period of ramping up.
How long is that ramp up? Well the expectation is about 18 to 24 months.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well let me just I missed one thing it’s important that Bath I am sorry not Bath Circle is a fairly significant company it’s publicly traded in the UK.
It has basically two areas of operations one is building and running its own hospitals.
The other is what Ed mentioned they actually manage National Health Service hospitals or the NHS they’ve been phenomenally successful in managing large very troubled acute care hospitals for the NHS and that has become a very important and very profitable part of their business.
And the reason I’ve mentioned that is because of course we have the parent guarantee for our lease it back.
Okay.
Do they have any publicly rated debt or anything that you can point? No no no they don’t.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Karin Ford from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
This is Jeff Gaston with Karin Ford here.
Hi Jeff.
So first question can you let us know how much of your freestanding emergency room exposure is hospital affiliated? You remember that we had before the First Choice we had three with Emeris.
All three of those are hospital affiliated and then the First Choice facilities most of theirs are affiliated in some former fashion.
And the Emeris transaction is actually ownership involved.
There is not ownership involved in the existing First Choice facilities.
I guess can you provide little more color on what that affiliation is for the First Choice facilities? Well for example in the Dallas market they have transfer agreements with local hospitals and in particular HCA and so what that means to a patient coming into a First Choice facility say with heart conditions that patient is stabilized.
They do what they need to do and if its determined that patient really need to be admitted to a hospital these arrangements with the local acute care hospitals mean that the ambulance picks the patient up at First Choice takes that patient directly to its room at the local hospital.
So it's not readmitted through the local hospital emergency room.
There is not a lot of additional admission paper work.
It's -- I probably wouldn't call a heart attack seamless in any regard but this is as seamless as possible and is highly beneficial for not only First Choice but primarily for the local hospital that's taking the transfer.
Okay.
So there are not operating under hospital license then in those cases?  No not at all.
Okay.
Do you have any concern about potential legislation in Colorado that could increase regulations or reduce facility fees? Yes from the facility fee standpoint we run it both ways and it is not an issue with our facilities.
Okay.
And I guess quick follow-up question on the emergency rooms.
What's the rent coverage on the ones you've completed today? Well the ones we've completed today remember our brand new First Choice has a number of facilities that they developed before we did.
But even the ones we've completed and are operating have coverage is in the seven to eight times.
And remember these have been open for less than six months in most cases.
It's a very attractive business when run correctly when as you pointed out you've got the right affiliations with local hospitals and so forth.
Okay.
I've got a couple of more questions but I'll back in the queue.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Andrew Rosivach from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
I just wanted to start… Good morning.
I just wanted to start on the development pipeline on slide 10.
Is (inaudible) help deals what the square footage on them? What they typically average it looks.
Go ahead.
67 000 square feet.
Got it.
So these things cost I'm kind of new I apologize kind of did they cost $1 000 a foot to build? Well you got include the land and the other development cost in that.
And these are not what you would refer to as a document box type facilities they are full licensed ERs.
Keep in mind also Andrew that part of the attraction here part of the whole business plan is to be in high traffic high demographic retail locations so they are actually buying land out on the pad sides of highly traffic shopping centers so you are generally getting a much higher per square foot land cost than you would with a typical hospital.
Are you paying for any of the equipment?  No we pay for none of the equipment.
Got it okay.
And then I just wanted to move to your near-term rollover you have got about 3.5% of your rents rolling between now and the end of ‘16 you even still have a maturity in ‘14 and what’s the outlook for those?  Well the maturity ‘14 is Bucks County that we have just actually sold.
We’ve got two coming due in ‘15 which are the two community hospitals that we have discussed over the last couple of months and community has already noticed us that they will be terminating their occupancy.
And so we are in the process re-tenanting those two properties even as we speak.
Do you have any sense of where your in place rents are versus market or whether their might be some down time in the re-tenanting? No we expect no down time and we have no comment as yet on what market versus the current rental rate is we are just not there yet on evaluating the market.
There has been anecdotally a very high level of interest not only from potential operators but from community leaders and political leaders in the area.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just a quick one just you probably know there is another healthcare REIT that were into some issues with large tenant purchase options.
What dollar amount of purchase options do you have remaining after the Bucks County deal on your asset? Well I'm not sure what comparable you are talking about but in almost every single one of our tenants there are purchase options.
Those purchase options are again almost exclusively at either greater of fair-value or our original investment.
So if we spend a $100 million to buy a property and lease it back in year one in year 15 certainly we would hope that the value of that property is more than a $100 million but even if it's not in order to exercise that option the operator has to pay us the $100 million.
Was that the Bucks County structure? The Bucks County structure was different because remember that was done under stress in the middle of 2009.
And that was done to replace a bankrupt tenant as Ed mentioned couldn't make it through the recession.
And so we brought in a very very strong operator a highly respected orthopedic group that was affiliated then with two very highly respected teaching hospitals to take over that facility pay us a good market rate rent give us the participation in operations.
And then went into all of that mix is the purchase option.
So that certainly was an exception to the model that we have.
There are no other leases Andrew with the -- they have an early purchase option.
Got it okay.
Thanks.
Just so and I was making a reference to Brookdale and Meridius and [HGP] but it sounds like you guys this was that had a structure like that? Yes.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we have a further question from Karin Ford from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Hi Jeff Gaston here with Karin again.
Can you give us any color on why the sale or JV with the Monroe Hospital was terminated? We’re still under confidentiality agreement.
I can say that just from our perspective there were a number of reasons including an evaluation on what the likelihood the other party completing all those obligations was going to be.
Jeff it was terminated by the us.
Yes yes.
Okay.
And then are you guys looking at the large HCN hospital that’s possibly out for sale? We don’t comment on the specific acquisitions that we’re looking at.
Okay.
And then I guess one last question what’s the expected impact of CMS’s IPPS rate cut on the hospitals and coverage? You know that they were just announced this week? Yes.
Absolutely none it is right in line with what we all expected a couple of months ago and we expected it would have no impact different than what we were saying them.
All right thanks a lot guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We have another question from Juan Sanabria from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys just a quick follow up.
Any update on for Florence and how that situation is progressing and kind of what we should be expecting? As Steve mentioned earlier both Florence and Gilbert continue to pay rents and they continue to have their operations improved and we don't have any expectations at this point that we won't continue to get our rent.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
That's it from me.
Thanks Juan.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Aldag for closing remarks.
Thank you Leanne and thank all of you for listening today.
And always please don't hesitate to call any of us for follow up questions so we look forward talking to you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That does conclude the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tony and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our third quarter 2014 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the Company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the Company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by the Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and good morning everyone.
Last week we announced a little over $1 billion in new investments.
This is in addition to the $320 million already announced by us earlier in the year.
As a consummation of these transactions MPT’s total assets were approximately $4.5 billion.
Since the beginning of 2011 our assets have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 33%.
With the strategic growth we have done over the last few years combined with this most recent announcement we have greatly improved the value of our portfolio through the performance of our properties geographic diversification operator diversification and size.
In the announcement last week we announced the acquisition of 40 facilities with MEDIAN Kliniken located throughout Germany an acute hospital in West Virginia with Alecto Healthcare an acute care hospital in Texas with Alecto Healthcare a freestanding emergency department in Alabama with Med Center West an affiliate of the University of Alabama Birmingham and three additional rehab facilities in Germany with our existing German tenant RHM.
Each of these investments are strongly immediately accretive.
Let me start with the largest of these acquisitions the $900 million MEDIAN transaction.
The MEDIAN acquisition is our second large investment in Germany.
Germany is a great place to do business.
We know the German rehabilitation market we like the German healthcare market and we all know the strength of the German economy and that Germany is the economic backbone of the Eurozone.
The rehab market is viewed very favorably by the German regulators and payers.
The regulators and the payers see this market as a way to reduce cost from the traditional acute care hospital segment and very importantly as a way to get people back in the workforce and to avoid costly long-term care.
German law requires that an acute care patient receive post acute rehabilitation if it is indicated.
MEDIAN is the largest private operator in a strong stable post acute rehabilitation market in Germany.
The CAGR for the rehabilitation market has been 2.7% since 2006 and is expected to continue to experience strong growth rates.
The 55 plus age population is expected to increase from 34% to 44% of the population by 2030.
The rehabilitation market’s two largest segments are those still in the workforce trying to get back to work and the elderly trying to avoid costly long-term care.
The German reimbursement system is basically divided into three segments Statutory Health Insurance or SHI German Public Pension Funds or DRV and private insurance.
Both the SHI and DRV are funded through contributions by employees and employers.
The SHI is similar to a combined U.S.
Medicare and Medicaid program.
There are approximately 130 different SHIs in Germany.
These programs are primarily for children unemployed and retirees.
These payers represent approximately 46% of MEDIAN’s revenue.
The incentive here for the payer is to get the patient rehabbed and avoid costly long-term care.
The DRVs are similar to our employer based insurance programs.
There are 16 of these in Germany.
These payers represent approximately 36% of MEDIAN's revenue.
The incentive here is for the payer to get the patient back into the workforce.
The remainder of MEDIAN's revenue comes from various sources including private-pay and private insurance options.
The German payer system is experiencing a large surplus and is very financially sound.
MEDIAN is a strong diverse company well positioned as a leader in the healthcare field in Germany.
Our cap rate on this transaction is in the lower mid range of our target area.
The coverage is close to two times.
This investment adds significantly to the strength and diversity of our portfolio in a market with a very solid economy and healthcare industry.
Last week we also announced four other investments Alecto West Virginia and Sherman Texas.
We're pleased to expand our portfolio with two properties to be operated by Alecto Healthcare Services.
Alecto is a healthcare system based in California with operations in California West Virginia and Texas.
MPT has had a longstanding relationship with Alecto's management team.
The first of these will add to our geographic diversification with a $25 million investment in a 207 bed acute care hospital in Fairmont West Virginia.
The hospital has a strong community support and Alecto has received tremendous support from the local and regional government bodies as well as the medical staff.
The second hospital will be a $40 million investment in a 237 bed acute care hospital along the rapidly growing I-75 Corridor in Sherman Texas just north of Dallas.
During most of the hospital's history it was operated as a local not-for-profit hospital.
However in 2010 it was sold to a joint venture between Texas Health Resources and LHP Hospital Group.
The JV since 2010 has invested significantly in the hospital infrastructure.
Both of these investments will be structured as sale leasebacks with 15-year terms along with an extension option at an initial cap rate at the high end of our range.
UAB we're pleased to announce our first project in Alabama and it's in a suburb of our corporate office here in Birmingham.
MPT has agreed to fund the development of the first freestanding emergency department in the state for Medical West which is an affiliate of the nationally recognized University of Alabama at Birmingham Health Systems.
The 23 000 square foot state-of-the-art facility will offer convenient emergency medical services to the largest city in the state which does not currently have access to acute care services within their community.
The investment in this project is just under 9 million.
RHM's three new facilities MPT has expanded its investment with RHM with three additional rehabilitation facilities located in Southern Germany.
This investment approximates $81 million for a total of 730 beds with medical care focused on orthopedics geriatrics neurology and cardiology.
RHM has a strong and proven business model that is focused on quality patient care.
RHM plans to have these three facilities in line with the RHM utilization standards within a short period of time.
These three additional investments will be added to the current master lease with RHM which has a 27 year term escalation provisions and an initial cap rate near the midpoint of MPT's investment range.
As most of you know our goal is to increase the size of our U.S.
acute care hospital portfolio as a percent of our overall portfolio.
Currently our U.S.
portfolio mix is approximately 59% acute care 16% inpatient rehabilitation facilities 16% LTACs and 9% freestanding ERs.
We will continue to push the 59% number for acute care hospitals closer to the 70% to 75% range.
Post the transactions announced last week our largest tenants will be MEDIAN at approximately 20% Prime at 16% and Ernest at 11%.
No other tenant will represent more than 8% of our portfolio.
For each of our three sectors of hospitals the EBITDAR coverage was essentially flat to slightly down trailing 12 months quarter-over-quarter.
When comparing same-store coverage for our acute care hospitals recoveries declined from 4.9 to 4.82 times.
For the LTACs the coverage dropped from 1.87 to 1.81.
And for the rehabs the coverage dropped from 2.71 to 2.68 times.
2014 has been an outstanding year for Medical Properties Trust our portfolio is stronger than it has ever been the investments we announced last week will continue to strengthen our company the diversification both geographic and operational the quality of the properties and the strong returns we're generating all combine to further increase the value of MPT.
Steve?  Thank you Ed.
We'll go right into the operational results and then discuss a few events that will impact comparable future results and then some additional detail about the MEDIAN and other recent acquisitions before we go into questions.
Normalized FFO per share for the quarter was an expected $0.27 per diluted share an 8% year-over-year increase compared to 2013.
Similarly year-to-date FFO per share was up 8% over 2013 results to $0.79 per diluted share.
Operationally the quarter benefited from the acquisition in September of the Alecto Fairmont Hospital in July of the CircleBath Hospital in England and throughout the quarter of the completion and placement into service of eight First Choice ERs.
We sold the Bucks County Hospital in July resulting in the loss of annual income going forward of approximately $3 million.
We'll discuss go forward run rate guidance in just a few minutes.
Ed has given you some more background on the $900 million MEDIAN acquisition so let me follow up with further detail.
We continue to be optimistic that the German equivalent of the Federal Trade Commission will clear the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2015.
Once the majority purchaser Waterland Private Equity completes that acquisition we expect to purchase and lease back the 40 clinics starting about 30 days later with completion of all 40 also in the first quarter of 2015.
Of course there is now assurance that regulatory or other impediments will not delay this time.
The contractual purchase price of the real estate is €705 million about $900 million.
For GAAP purposes certain taxes may result in an all-in GAAP allocation of up to €730 million.
Accordingly we expect the yield on our investment to approximate between 9.2% and 9.5%.
This includes the straight line effect of a minimum 1% annual escalator.
However the escalation provision actually requires the lessee to increase the lease payments each year by 70% of German CPI with no upward limit.
In today’s environment this is a very strong protection because many lessees are able to hold fast to a lower maximum such as 4% to 5%.
It may also be important to emphasize that the MEDIAN transaction is a simple sale and leaseback between MPT and MEDIAN.
As we disclosed last week MPT will make a nominal 5.1% investment as part of the acquisition of MEDIAN.
But this is not a RIDEA type investment.
When we purchased the real estate from MEDIAN for leaseback we will be required as usual to pay transfer tax and this will be recognized as acquisition expense at that time.
Our 5.1% equity which although we are prohibited from disclosing the amount we can say that it is immaterial from any perspective.
The 5.1% equity allows us to avoid paying a second level of real estate transfer tax which may have otherwise cost approximately €35 million.
The purchase by MPT of each property will require the transfer tax and as mentioned this cost will be reflected as an expense at the time.
We will retain this small passive equity investment even after we purchase and lease back the real estate because we think it offers opportunity for long-term value creation at the minimus risk.
But we do not assume any income from it in our calculations of accretion and run rate guidance.
After completion of the purchase of the real estate to leaseback to MEDIAN we may make loans up to the purchase prices of the respective facilities.
During the time between making any such loans and closing of the real estate purchases we will be paid cash interest on those loans at the lease rate.
The loan balance will be offset against what would otherwise be a cash payment for the real estate purchase prices.
As you may recall from our RHM deal last year the local municipalities in Germany have something similar to a right of first refusal to purchase the hospitals which are logically considered infrastructure assets.
Although that is not expected to happen in the unlikely event that it does on certain facilities our sale leaseback agreement has provisions to assure us that MEDIAN will substitute any such facility with a similar asset.
I will be happy to answer further questions about MEDIAN and the other acquisitions during our Q&amp;A but first let me move to financing.
We announced last week that we have amended our bank facilities to assure that we have more than sufficient flexibility to complete the MEDIAN sale and the leaseback along with the other transactions that we have announced and give us plenty of covenant headroom and time in the event that approval and other conditions cause unexpected delays in closing.
In summary we exercised our $250 million accordion feature to increase our committed availability to over $1 billion.
We negotiated a new accordion that provides an additional $400 million of capacity for a total of $1.5 billion.
We obtained commitments from the syndicated banks to provide a one-year term loan for $225 million and we modified certain other provisions of the credit agreement.
These modifications will allow us if necessary to complete all aspects of the MEDIAN transactions without additional capital-raising activities.
However our practice has always been to manage our growth as rapid and successful as it has been with long-term capital that has predictable cost.
So at the appropriate time in the future based on market conditions clarity about the timing of closing and our overall pipeline and capital needs we will access capital to replace any borrowings that may have been made under the revolving facility.
As we complete that process of accessing more permanent capital we intend to have reverted to our long-established balance sheet practices of moderate leverage that is 40% to 45% debt to gross assets net debt of around 5.5 times normalized EBITDA and well sequenced maturities in combination with a comfortably well covered dividend payout ratio.
Based on those practices and principals and on recent market conditions in both the debt and equity capital markets we have estimated that the MEDIAN and other recently announced transactions once permanent financing is completed will generate incremental FFO per diluted share of between $0.09 and $0.12.
Compared to our previous run rate estimates at the mid range of $1.12 per share this represents an increase of between 8% and 11% on a go forward basis if we suggest an in place run rate of between $1.19 per share and $1.26 per share.
Those estimates assume interest cost will range between about 3.5% for secured mortgage debt and about 5% for unsecured debt.
As most of you will remember there is not a strong mortgage market in the U.S.
for hospital assets so we do have to be able to benefit from the German market and its lower secured rates.
Let's discuss briefly the operators that are in bankruptcy starting with Monroe.
An affiliate of Prime Health Services has recently been confirmed by the court as the winning bidder for the acquisition of assets of the original operator of Monroe Hospital in Bloomington Indiana.
We expect that sale to close during the fourth quarter.
The impact on MPT will be that we will begin receiving cash rent of approximately $2.5 million annually a little more than $0.01 per share.
The Gilbert Hospital in the suburb of Phoenix has not missed a rent payment since it entered bankruptcy almost a year ago and for the last several months has operated profitably.
We have already agreed to new lease terms with Gilbert that provide higher rents more security and to longer term all of which has been approved by the court.
We expect Gilbert to emerge from bankruptcy a much stronger tenant for us in the near future.
The Florence Hospital also in the Phoenix area has recently announced that it has accepted a bid from a prospective purchaser that is conditioned among other things on reaching agreement with us regarding the lease.
Meanwhile Florence continues to pay its rent and we retain an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of about four months of rent.
There is no assurance at all that we will reach agreement concerning new lease terms with the stalking horse bidder.
Our investments in tenant operations that is our RIDEA investment continue to report results and otherwise execute their strategic growth plans as we have expected.
For the nine months ended September 30 we have recognized approximately $12 million from our loans to Ernest and the operator of our Hoboken facility and another $2 million in operating income from the remaining investments.
Since last December we have invested approximately $90 million in three acute care hospitals in turnaround conditions that are leased to Alecto Healthcare.
These investments pay a double-digit lease and loan rates and we also participate in their profitability.
It's important to remember that we paid no additional amount for this profit's interest.
Because the facilities are in the early stages of turnaround we have not yet recognized any profits participation but all lease and interest payments are paid current.
We will continue to selectively invest in similar opportunities to supplement our high real estate lease returns with profit participations when we can do so with little or no incremental risk.
With that I'll turn the call back to the operator for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Karin Ford of Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
My first question is just on your portfolio and where you -- where it is today and where you'd like it to be.
Can you just talk about what percentage of the portfolio you'd like to have in Europe ultimately versus the U.S.
and how your pipeline is sort of shaping up to sort of manage your longer-term goals on portfolio exposure?  Karin in the near term near and medium term we expect that our exposure in Western Europe on the total portfolio basis will be somewhere in the 30% range.
Now that may spike up a little bit as we do transactions and then come way back down as we do U.S.
transactions.
But overall if there ever were a stable point it would be somewhere in that particular range.
And then on the MEDIAN close it sounds like that's still a little bit of a moving target.
But it sounds like it should be sort of late first quarter early second is that your current thought?  No.
I think it will be much sooner than that.
As Steve mentioned the only thing holding back the closing at this point is the approval from their equivalents of the FTC.
We hope that that will occur sometime this year probably sometime in December.
And then your sale leaseback would close 30 days after that?  Well that will probably close sometime in the middle of the first quarter and as each one of the municipalities waive their right.
And then what's driving the changes in the coverage levels that you saw across the three different segments of your portfolio? What sort of -- what's been the -- what are the emission trends you're seeing and what are the sort of overall fundamental dynamics?  It wasn't much of a decline.
If you go back to the numbers they were slightly down to hardly down at all.
Most of it's attributable to the typical third quarter slowdown that you see in the summertime.
Some of it is attributable to a softer market in the California than the rest of the country.
And then my last question is just on Monroe.
The cash rent that Prime will pay does that commence immediately upon the closing of their purchase? Yes it does.
And lease rolls into the Prime master lease.
So we have all of the credit benefits of Prime’s master lease structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Michael Carroll of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
How many other assets does MEDIAN operate outside of the assets you agreed to purchase?  Well they have two other acute care hospitals but it is essentially the whole company.
I thought you said in your remarks too that if the local government decided not to or decided to exercise its right to purchase one of the assets then MEDIAN would give you an asset similar to the ones that the government decided to buy?  That’s correct.
That’s because they are in an acquisition mode and have other acquisitions planned.
They've already identified to the extent that that would be necessary which frankly we think it won't be.
They've already identified over €140 million in new assets that they are in the process of acquiring.
It is highly unlikely Mike that any of the municipalities will exercise that right.
They had that same right on the RHM transaction and didn’t exercise any of those either.
So is MEDIAN buying those assets themselves or is that something that you could partner with them?  You mean in the their acquisitions that they are doing an additional acquisition? Yes.
We expect to acquire those assets in a straight sale leaseback not in a partnership type structure just like we are doing on the large transaction.
And then how many additional international markets is MPW interested in outside of the UK and Germany?  Mike we haven’t identified the specific countries other to say that it’s Western Europe and there is less than a handful of it we are looking at right now.
So most of the near-term investments on the international side will be still in the UK and Germany?  We just haven’t made that announcement yet.
And then in Germany are you more interested in rehab hospitals or you're also interested in general acute care hospitals?  Right now we are just interested in the rehab market.
We know it very well.
We are very very comfortable with it.
It’s a very very strong market.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Juan Sanabria Bank of America.
Please proceed.
I was just wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on that 5% stake you took in MEDIAN and what the implied valuation was and what the potential CapEx commitments or commitments towards future acquisitions they may do.
And excuse me if you just answered this the line kind of cut out for me.
No problem Juan.
It cut out for us also.
The 5.1% is a totally passive immaterial from a dollar value standpoint.
And again we are prohibited from saying just how immaterial.
It carries no obligations.
There's no CapEx obligation.
If in the highly unusual and unexpected circumstance that there needed to be a capital call it’s entirely up to us as to whether we participate in that capital call or not.
Obviously we did not.
We'd be diluted.
And again we have no assumption in our guidance that there is any income that comes from that.
And then can you just talk to the 1.7 times coverage for MEDIAN and kind of what made you comfortable there? At face maybe it seems a little low to what I guess we're typically used to expecting it.
And if you could also give us a sense of the coverage with the U.S.
the new acute care hospital coverage levels.
Juan as you saw in the press release it’s more than 1.7.
It’s actually almost identical to the going in coverage rate when we bought Ernest Health.
It is a very typical going in coverage rate for us on post acute care LTACs and rehabilitation hospitals.
Well we expect that number to be shortly up above the two times coverage and we expect to continue to grow modestly from that particular number.
It's a number that we've always said in underwriting the post acute care sector that we've always been very comfortable with.
The roughly 1.7 times to 2 times coverage is what we underwrite from a going in basis.
For the acute care hospitals we like to see the coverage on a stabilized basis to be in the 3 times range.
For the Alecto facilities as Steve mentioned these facilities we expect will get to those heights of coverages in short order.
They're not there now but we expect they will get there in short order.
And those are the turnarounds just because there's just a recently new operator is that the story?  Well in West Virginia it's very similar to the situation that we had in Hoboken and in the Bayonne where you had a not-for-profit operator and a for-profit operator coming in and taking control of the facility.
We expect to see the same types of results here that we've seen in other situations where we've had that particular instance.
There is a lot of low hanging fruit when you had that type of situation.
The facility down in Texas was a not-for-profit for a very long time.
It was then operated by a joint venture with Texas Health and LHP that never really fit in their portfolio.
LHP didn't -- never really managed that facility as they have their other facilities within their particular model.
So it will fit better with the Alecto model.
And can you give us any sense given both MEDIAN and RHM are controlled by private equity as to the leverage that they are using at those two operators and kind of a sense of how much flexibility they may have from a balance sheet perspective?  Well I mean you can look at -- we're purchasing them.
And the coverage which again as we mentioned is at least at 1.7 times and our view when we look at that coverage is not necessarily what's the corporate level debt it's what debt and what operating metrics are down at the location.
So just for example you can go back to the transaction we did about this time last year with IASIS which if you look at it from a corporate level is fairly levered.
But the hospitals are generating very strong profitability and that's our concern.
So that if we had to make a change for whatever reason the hospitals are doing well and you can leave the corporate debt behind and easily replace an operator with new capital at a business that's generating again as we pointed out at least 1.7 times profitability coverage.
So it's a long-winded answer but it's basically corporate level debt does not affect our credit and our remedy availability if in fact we had to take remedies under our leases.
I'm not sure if you're asking this particular part of the question or not.
But in the ways you asked it it brought up a point that I want to be sure to make.
MEDIAN represents about 6% of the total market in Germany.
The RHM portfolio represents about 1.5 times to 2 times I mean 2% of the total market.
So combined they will control roughly 8% 8.5% of the total rehabilitation market in Germany.
The most important factor for the payers in Germany is quality of care.
When they're doing their payer contracts they make sure that they're doing it with facilities that generate great patient outcomes.
The MEDIAN facilities the management team that's in place there has been in place now for about two years or three years.
They have a great plan.
We think that they will continue to grow in the market.
And the synergies between the two we think will help very much in the total operation of the portfolio.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Chad Vanacore of Stifel.
Please proceed.
So it sounds like there is going to be some excess tax leakage in the German assets.
Can you give us a better picture of why that is and then what the magnitude is?  Well there's really not Chad.
The tax that I mentioned earlier is the transaction tax.
You'll find even in the state there are many states and other jurisdictions that charges stamp duty or a transfer tax on a real estate transaction.
That's all that we're talking about here.
when there is a transfer of ownership there is a tax to be paid regardless of whether there is profit.
So we're not talking about income tax leakage at all.
And to the extent there is local income tax which in the case of MEDIAN there is not we would have rolled it into the guidance.
But all we're talking about is the transfer tax.
We don't expect any ongoing tax leakage here Chad.
And then a large part of your portfolio is now in German market.
So what would you point investors toward for them to get comfortable with that aspect?  Well it’s all the things that I have mentioned in my presentation earlier.
There's various material that we'd be glad to share with people.
We'll put it up on our website some of it's there already.
It is a very strong and stable market.
It is a great economy a great healthcare market particularly in the rehabilitation area.
Your next question comes from the line of Ms.
Karin Ford of Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
Can you give us an update on the re-leasing efforts on the two hospitals currently operated by Community Health?  (Operator Instructions) Ms.
Karin Ford of Capital Markets please proceed.
I didn’t hear but the very first few words of your questions.
Yeah.
Sorry cut out there.
I apologize.
Can you just give us an update on the status of the re-leasing for the two hospitals currently operated by Community Health?  Yes.
We've gone through a process we've had approximately five or six people indicate an interest on the facilities and that seems to be moving well.
And then just last question.
Can you give us a sense of when you expect timing on the permanent financing for the acquisitions? Do you expect it to be relatively close to closing or is it basically could be any time?  Well it will be as I mentioned earlier when market conditions are appropriate when we do have more clarity on the timing of closing.
We have got a very very robust pipeline.
We continue to work other transactions.
So the development of those will also impact timing.
We want to take the opportunity we have right now to get in front of investors and make sure that the current and prospective investors have all the benefit of the information we have about not only this particular transaction but the German market and its strength.
So again a long-winded answer Karin but it comes back to we just don’t know.
We have a lot of flexibility and we will keep our eye on the markets.
And we have plenty of liquidity to close the transaction as is and we will try to make the best decision on when the right time it is to make permanent financing.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Juan Sanabria of Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Just with regards to your European exposure I mean if I recall previously you'd said that you'd expect that exposure to remain similar to what it was just when you had the RHM exposure.
Now you've had a big increase with MEDIAN.
I mean how should we think about the exposure going forward? I know you kind of discussed it.
And then how do you feel comfortable given the European economy and sort of increased weakness as of late?  Juan we have said in many of the recent calls and meetings that we have had that we expected the near-term to be in the 15% to 20% range.
Now we had this opportunity come available to us.
We believe that this is an outstanding acquisition.
It’s a very strong acquisition one of the strongest acquisitions that we think we could have made.
So despite that you saying about what we had indicated most recently is exactly that just a spike.
Now in answering the question where we think we will be in the mid-term we think that the 30% range is the right target.
Now that doesn’t mean that we will stay there or get there.
It means that we may be slightly above that at times and we may be way below that at times as the acquisitions fall out.
As far as the economy and the recession standpoint let me address that the same way that I addressed the U.S.
recession that we had in 2008 2009 2010 and so forth.
During that time period our hospitals performed exceptionally well.
People get sick in good times and they get sick in bad times.
During that time period when many other companies were struggling with cash flow issues our hospitals actually saw their EBITDAR coverage grow from roughly 3.5 times to over 4.5 times.
So we see that the hospital portfolio the hospital industry is never going to be a high-flying industry but it also does well in all types of economies.
When you look at Europe take Spain in particular Spain's a country that suffered greatly during the worldwide recession.
Yet Spanish hospitals actually saw their EBITDAR increase during that same time period by roughly 35%.
So it's more than just looking at the overall economies.
Obviously that's very important.
Now look at the strength of their governments in those particular countries.
But take Germany as a particular example.
Germany has one of the strongest balance sheets in all of the world.
It is certainly and has been throughout the recession the backbone of the Eurozone and that the German healthcare in particular is well funded with a very large surplus with not the deficit issues that other countries such as the U.S.
is seeing.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in the question-and-answer session.
We will now proceed with closing remarks.
Tony thank you very much and thank all of you and we apologize for the technical difficulty in some of the Q&amp;A process.
But again thank to all of you for listening.
If you had any further questions please don't hesitate to call us.
We'll be glad to get back with you.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you again for your participation.
You may now disconnect and everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter Four 2014 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kathy and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Charles and thanks all of you for joining us today for our fourth quarter year end 2014 Medical Properties Trust earnings call.
2014 was a fantastic year for MPT not only did our current portfolio perform well which I will go into more details in a few moments but we invested or committed to invest almost $1.4 billion in 2014.
This increased our total asset base by approximately 45% compared to the prior year end.
With this increase in asset base we greatly strengthened our portfolio through geographic tenant and property type diversification.
As you would expect with this type of growth our revenue and FFO grew at 29% and 10% per share respectively during 2014.
Steve will give you more details in just a few minutes.
We also expect to have further significant FFO growth per share in 2015.
It is important to note that S&amp;P raised our overall credit rating and upgraded our senior notes to investment grade during the fourth quarter.
Shortly after we announced in October the nearly $1 billion acquisition of the MEDIAN Kliniken properties MPT senior management embarked on a month-long series of meetings visiting with existing investors and new investors to update them on MPT.
When we announced the MEDIAN acquisition our stock price was $13.49 per share.
By the time we finished our month-long series of meetings the stock price had risen almost 6%.
In early January we completed the largest equity offering in the company’s history and the offering priced at $14.50 per share a 1.8% premium from the announcement of the offering.
The success of this offering is a testament to the success we had in 2014 and the strength of the MPT portfolio.
Now I would like to just briefly update you on some of our properties in our portfolio.
Good news Monroe Hospital is paying rents.
Rent payments commenced on January 1 2015 Prime lease the facility under the existing master lease with MPT.
We are currently in negotiations with the potential operator for the two South Carolina CHS hospitals.
We hope to provide you further update further in the quarter.
Both the Arizona facilities in Florence and Gilbert continue to pay rent.
Gilbert continues to perform well and Florence is making strides – small strides forward.
Turning to our lease coverages for all of our general acute care hospitals even those that have been in our portfolio for less than a year the coverage was 4.32 times on a trailing 12-month basis ending November 2014.
This is a slight decrease of about 10 basis points from the previous quarter.
When looking at the normal mature operations again meaning that the properties have been in our portfolio for at least a year the coverage is slightly higher on a trailing 12 months at 4.4 times for the fourth quarter.
This is about 7 basis points below the third quarter.
For the LTACs the coverage for our total portfolio was 1.8 times on a trailing 12 months versus the 1.84 times for the 12 months ending the third quarter.
For our rehab facilities all of the IRFs the coverage was flat at 1.9 times including just IRFs we have owned for at least a year.
The coverage was slightly higher at two times which again was flat to slightly up.
For our freestanding emergency room portion it is still in the ramp up stage.
And even with six of those facilities just coming off of construction completion our lease coverage was 2.5 times.
One barometer of potential future results is admissions.
Obviously this is a potential indication only a potential indication but the admissions for all of our major categories were up.
Our general acute care admissions were up 1.5% IRFs up 6.2% LTACs up 2.5%.
All of the admission figures are comparisons of the last three months ending December 2014 and December 2013 for facilities that have been a part of our portfolio again for at least 12 months.
At the end of December 2014 our largest tenants were MEDIAN at 19% Prime at 17% and Ernest at 11%.
These figures assume fully funded commitments.
Our portfolio was currently spread over three countries with 74% in the U.S.
25% in Germany and 1% in the UK.
We expect our acquisition activity in 2014 to again be robust.
While we are not ready to predict that we will be able to match the level of nearly $1.5 billion we achieved in 2014 we do believe that our acquisitions will at least be in the range of $600 million to $800 million.
I want to thank each of you for the confidence you have shown in us and which has certainly paid off with the success we have had.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
Normalized FFO per share for the fourth quarter was an expected $0.28 a 17% year-over-year increase compared to 2013.
For the full year we increased FFO per share by more than 10% to $1.06.
We have not made any acquisitions in 2015 and yet our existing our portfolio is set again to deliver strong double-digit growth in per share results for 2015.
We will address our outlook in just a few moments.
Included in NAREIT defined FFO is an adjustment for gain of about $2.9 million on the sale of our La Palma Community Hospital to Prime Healthcare.
As a reminder to you Prime has the option to repurchase and substitute one hospital each year for purposes of contributing the hospital to its not-for-profit affiliate Prime Healthcare Foundation and MPT does not presently own any of the facilities operated by the Prime Foundation.
Further adjustments to FFO to result in normalized FFO include the following.
Acquisition cost of $18.5 million including major line items for first $3.9 million in real estate transfer taxes related to the three rehab hospitals we acquired from RHM along with related legal and other transaction costs.
Second $9.5 million for the early breakage of contracts to hedge $532 million equivalent of our euro exposure between the time we executed the contracts to acquire the MEDIAN assets and the closing of the transaction.
And lastly approximately $5.1 million in other transaction costs primarily legal other professional fees and diligence cost mostly for the MEDIAN transaction.
Other adjustments to arrive at normalized FFO are $1.4 million in contingent financing fees legal and other costs related to a $225 million loan commitment from our bank group that was terminated subsequent to the issuance of common shares in January and finally $1.9 million in the write-off of straight-line rent.
Regarding MEDIAN as I just mentioned and we have previously disclosed the transaction to acquire MEDIAN was closed in mid-December when MPT invested approximately $533 million.
We are now in the process of working through the necessary consents and preemption right releases for each of the 40 facilities.
And we expect to start closing those sale-leaseback transactions shortly.
Meanwhile as we have disclosed we are earning interest at the lease rate on substantially all of our $533 million investment.
Turning to financing as of year end we had drawn $593 million under our revolving credit facility for the purchase of approximately €425 million to close the MEDIAN transaction and the three new RHM hospitals.
The average interest rate on these balances approximate 1.55%.
In January we issued 34.5 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $480 million and repaid our revolver balances by that same amount.
As we work towards the closing of the MEDIAN sale and leaseback transactions we are also continuing to evaluate the optimum strategies for financing the approximately €280 million that’s about $315 million plus transaction costs necessary to complete the transactions.
As such we are considering unsecured euro-denominated bonds and locally financed bank mortgage loans or a combination of the two.
With only $110 million drawn on our revolver as of today we are confident that our revolver availability will provide sufficient capacity to close our other near-term acquisition possibilities.
With respect to our guidance in our last quarterly conference call we estimated that upon completion of the MEDIAN transaction including permanently financing the acquisitions with long-term debt and equity capital our run rate normalized FFO would range between a $1.19 and $1.26 due primarily to lower market interest rates and higher stock price than we initially anticipated for our recent offering offset somewhat by unfavorable exchange rate movements we have modestly adjusted our estimated range to $1.21 to $1.27.
As always this estimate does not contemplate unannounced transactions or capital market transactions other than for MEDIAN.
As we had consistently demonstrated we expect that our 2015 acquisitions will be immediately and strongly accretive and therefore expect our results will continue to improve even above this current new estimate.
With respect to operators that are in the process of restructuring their businesses Ed mentioned these briefly.
We will discuss those.
First they had been operating under Court supervision.
And again as Ed noted today it should be the last time that we and probably most of you will need to hear about Monroe.
As of January 1 we and an affiliate of Prime amended the Prime master lease to add Monroe.
And just this week the Court approved the overall bankruptcy plan.
Based on the finally agreed lease base and rate we will receive $2.5 million annually with CPI escalations and in fact they have already received the first two months rent for Monroe.
The Gilbert Hospital in the suburb of Phoenix continues to operate profitably and meet all of its lease obligations.
We noted on our last call that we have already agreed to new lease terms with Gilbert that provide higher rents more security and a longer term.
All of which has now been approved by the Court.
We expect to see Gilbert emerge from bankruptcy in the near future.
And we have – and as we have said since the bankruptcy filing more than a year ago do not expect any impairment or other material losses.
Also last quarter we announced that the bankruptcy Court overseeing the Florence Hospital also near Phoenix had approved a prospective purchaser conditioned upon that purchaser reaching an agreement with MPT regarding assumption of our lease.
We recently executed a non-binding letter of intent that describes the terms of an un-assumed lease.
There are no rent reductions or other payment concessions in the LOI and we would retain our current security including intangibles and the $1.2 million letter of credit.
Meanwhile Florence has continued to pay its rent and other obligations.
Our wellness centers have continued to struggle and we recently seized accrual of rent.
And this is reflected in the run-rate guidance we just discussed.
Although there is no assurance of completion we are presently negotiating the terms of the sale of the properties to the lessee.
Ed already mentioned the South Carolina hospitals and we hope to be able to transition those facilities to a new operator in the near future.
With that I will turn the call back to the operator to queue for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Karin Ford KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Jr.</span></strong> Good morning Karin.
First if I could start just with the adjustments to the run-rate that you mentioned.
Can you just quantify the impact of the lower interest rates and the exchange rates? And just talk about what exposure you have to changing exchange rates going forward? Okay that’s two questions.
I will take them in sequence.
Everything is fungible.
We have adjusted the range by $0.02 on the low end and a $0.01 on the high end.
So any single one of the components we mentioned whether its exchange rates or interest cost or the cost of the equity that we issued really we haven’t quantified and put them in separate buckets.
All of those components are subject to further assumptions about timing and how much so we haven’t quantified.
I am not sure there is relevance to us to quantify how much of the penny adjustment could possibly come from one component versus another.
With respect to exposure to exchange rates we are certainly exposed to the market.
Keep in mind that it’s only an economic exposure to the extent that we bring euros home convert them to dollars to either pay debt pay dividends or whatever.
Now from a GAAP perspective it’s not treated that way but we are in the process now of modeling out just that how much of our future expected rental income in euros will be used to pay for euro-denominated debt to reinvest in euro-denominated assets and then how much to bring home reconvert to dollars.
That last net amount is what we will then consider placing short-term rolling hedges on to smooth out the exchange rate impact.
Remember these are at least 27-year assets and there is obviously no way you can hedge out that that far.
In fact hedging out 18 to 36 months is generally considered probably the longest term that you can do that efficiently and that’s what we would plan to do is have a rolling series of hedges of 18 to 36 months.
Okay thanks for that.
I think you had estimated previously that you thought cost of secured debt would be around 3.5% and unsecured might be around 5%.
Do you have updated estimates as to what those might be today? They have only come down Karin particularly the unsecured debt.
As Ed mentioned and you certainly know our debt has been upgraded to investment grade.
So that in and of itself has brought in our unsecured rate somewhat along with the overall interest rate environment and in particular the euro-denominated interest rate environment.
So whereas our earlier estimates of unsecured debt costing as much as 5% has probably come in at least 100 and frankly probably more than 100 basis points.
So we would expect to issue something between 3% and 4%.
On the secured side that depends a lot on other terms including loan-to-value including the level of securitization or collateralization I should say.
But there again we think that has come in much less but probably a meaningful 25 basis points.
Thanks for that.
Can you just characterize the pipeline? I appreciate the $600 million to $800 million number that you gave us you are thinking about in 2015.
Just talk about what the composition is of the pipeline that you are looking at in terms of asset class geography portfolios or individual deals? Jr.</span></strong> Karin the vast majority of that will continue to be acute care hospitals.
Almost all of our pipeline that we are currently working on with the exception of some facilities that we are looking at with our existing customers are all acute care hospitals.
From a geographic standpoint right now with having roughly 75% of it here in the U.S.
as we have said on the last couple of calls we do expect that the amount of properties that are in Europe will go up on a temporarily basis from maybe as much as 35% but we will typically run in the 70% to 30% range.
Okay thanks.
And then just last question I know it’s still relatively early but do you have any – do you have a sense for how the turnarounds are going at the Alecto hospitals so far? Jr.</span></strong> Yes they are all doing well.
The one facility in Dallas we had projected it to be I say Dallas it’s up in Sherman its north of there.
We had projected that it would be slower than the others and it is on that track but all of them are right on schedule for what our original projections were.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
George Hoglund on for Tayo.
I was just wondering also if you can talk about potential returns or cap rates on the pipeline.
I don’t know if I caught this or missed this earlier but would you expect things to be in line with recent transactions or any recent trends in cap rates you could comment on? Jr.</span></strong> Yes George that’s certainly a fair question with interest rates coming down but everything that we are looking at right now is still in that range that we have said over the last few quarters.
Okay thanks.
And anywhere in Europe sort of besides Germany that you guys are looking at? Jr.</span></strong> Well they certainly are.
As we have always said and as we went into Europe is that it’s Western Europe obviously not countries that we all would recognize as countries that we wouldn’t be in but for a real general definition it’s Western Europe.
Okay alright.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chad Vanacore of Stifel.
Hi good morning.
Jr.</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey so the MEDIAN deal you had originally thought that you would close by mid first quarter is the whole transaction closed now or are there a still couple of pieces left? Jr.</span></strong> No I think we originally said that we were hoping to close the initial phase of the transaction early to mid-first quarter.
And in fact we closed that – that’s what we closed that on I think it was December 15.
And so from that step having closed that then we go into executing sale leaseback contracts with each of the 40 operators 40 subsidiary operators for the facilities that we intend to buy and then leaseback that then triggers the preemption right period that the local municipalities have which in general we expect 5 weeks to 6 weeks but they can take longer.
So having just given you that brief background we still hope to close a substantial number of the sale leaseback transactions in the first quarter.
But it could bleed over into the second quarter.
So again right now of the total €705 million transaction we have invested €425 million.
There is another €280 million in incremental investment to complete the sale-leaseback.
We are earning on that €425 million now substantially all of it.
And then as we layer on the remainder of the purchase price for each respective facility we will begin earning on that.
And again just to summarize we still think most of that gets closed in the first quarter.
But at this point there will probably be some bleed over into the second quarter period.
Alright that’s great color.
Thanks.
And as far as you got – now got a huge chunk of your portfolio in Germany do you have any boots on the ground there a team and office and then how that – how should we think about that affecting G&amp;A? Jr.</span></strong> Yes.
Chad so some of this is I addressed on the last call about where we think we are going to be with the G&amp;A and our investments in Germany and in all of Europe.
We don’t have any boots on the ground per se.
What we do have is that we are using our Birmingham office and our New York office to handle all of that internally.
We don’t have to manage the properties on a day-to-day basis so it’s not like we need to be there on an everyday basis.
We probably have more G&amp;A expense now because of the way we are structuring it.
But I think we are getting more benefit right now by having everybody in the same office and being able to communicate and collaborate better.
There will come a time that we will have boots on the ground in Europe and when we do it will actually reduce our overall G&amp;A.
Alright I appreciate your time today.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Mr.
Juan Sanabria of BoA.
Good morning guys.
Jr.</span></strong> Hi Juan how are you doing? Good.
Thank you very much.
Hope you guys are well.
Just wondering if you could give a little color – more color on the wellness centers their rental contribution I know you have some disclosure in the supp maybe expectation that we should have on that rent going away or how we should be thinking about the sale process there? Jr.</span></strong> Juan it’s such a small investment you won’t see it net book value there is $10 million that’s never been a large investment for us.
You will remember that this was a tag along on a portfolio of properties that we bought.
It is – it has contributed very little to additional rent.
The total rent amount is about $1 million.
Okay.
And then on the First Choice how are those developments progressing what’s left to kind of be put on track with regards to the CapEx you have committed to that agreement that venture? Jr.</span></strong> We currently have 28 facilities that are open or under construction.
We have of the total commitment that we have made we have approximately – we have about $70 million left to fund.
Okay.
And any sense of how much got placed into service in the fourth quarter? Jr.</span></strong> One property.
Okay.
And just going back to the FX portion that I think Karin had.
I know you kind of said it was early days for your modeling of this but any sense of what the cash impact like a Fed impact to earnings would be for say a 10% swing in the euro versus the U.S.
dollar? Any sort of sensitivities you could share? Well we haven’t modeled that because again on a GAAP basis I mean it’s pretty easy probably because you know what our GAAP earnings are our GAAP rent is on the German portfolios.
From that you would first of all subtract the euro-denominated interest that we pay out of those earnings.
And of course that number is undetermined now because we haven’t concluded how we are going to finance those and what the cost will be.
And then that basically that net is subject to a GAAP adjustment from quarter-to-quarter based directly on the exchange rate.
So if the exchange rate moved against us by 10% basically take that 10% move and apply it to that quarter’s income that quarter’s net income that I have just described.
So again for those reasons we don’t know what that would be.
We – and then again that’s the GAAP impact.
The cash economic impact will be reduced even further substantially frankly because we will keep in Europe the funds that we want to reinvest there.
And as Ed said and we have made clear we will continue to be active in Europe.
We don’t have any large transactions that are in the pipeline right now but they will be funded to the extent we can from European cash flows.
So that’s – those are some of the components that go into if you were trying to predict they will be pretty big assumptions to make but that’s the process.
Jr.</span></strong> So Juan on an economic basis where we are right now if you over – get past the investment side of getting money over there it’s really a relatively small amount of dollar risk or euro risk right now because of what Steve just described of the interest that we are paying and the reinvestments that we are making in Europe.
So it’s not an issue right now.
Okay thanks for the color.
The next question comes from Michael Carroll of RBC.
You described how you would get to the bottom end and the top end of your FFO run-rate is that mostly FX potential changes? No it’s not.
The FX is kind of built into that.
It for the most part is – the biggest component by far would be the difference in interest cost of really two components.
One number one do we use secured or unsecured okay? And Karin asked and we talked about the spread between those two.
And then secondly is on a long-term basis what our overall capital structure will look like whether we are using more or less relative equity? And what we have said from the beginning but for many years frankly and then reiterated as we did this MEDIAN transaction was we will revert to our long-term goals of 40% to 45% total leverage and 5 to 5.5 times debt to EBITDA.
And so that again that describes the great majority of the variance in the range of run-rate.
Okay great.
And then could you remind us the status of the lease expirations in 2015? Just a second Mike.
Jr.</span></strong> In 2015 we only had the two properties that we have been discussing since last year the two CHS South Carolina properties which is a total of about $35 million.
What’s the – are you negotiating leases or are you planning on selling those assets is there any update on this? Jr.</span></strong> Well the update was that we are negotiating with someone right now and we hope to have further information that we can provide later in this quarter.
And that would be as a new operator not as a sale of the properties.
Okay.
And then my last question is related can you give us any updated color on the LTAC patient criteria and how it could impact your portfolio? I think my sense is is that the good assets will win and the bad assets might see some pressure.
I mean how does your portfolio stack up against that and particularly how is the Ernest assets? Jr.</span></strong> Yes.
The Ernest assets we think will do exceptionally well.
We think that overall our portfolio would do well.
We have constant conversations with our existing operators about their existing portfolio within our portfolio.
All of them believe that long-term this will be a good benefit for all of our facilities.
And we think you are exactly right the facilities that generate – that perform well with the better operators that have higher acuity patients will do very well under this scenario.
Okay great.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Karin Ford of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
I just wanted to follow-up on that last question from Mike.
So Steve you are saying that the bottom end of the guidance would potentially contemplate additional equity since it looks like you guys are sort of at the top end of year range pro forma following the equity deal? Well on a long-term basis that would be part of it.
Most of – most of it though would be on the bottom end if we would go with the higher cost debt which at this time still would or at least marginally look like to be unsecured.
Okay.
And then just last question can you just give us some help on what a good run rate might be for G&amp;A is it the 11.4 you did in the fourth quarter or something lower than that? That’s a very good question Karin.
In the fourth quarter there were a couple of – I am not going to call them one-time but there are only – there are periodic increases.
The most of the difference between say the first quarter – I mean fourth quarter and third quarter is in recruiting and compensation.
So – and the other is made up primarily of some of the international cost especially the early international costs that are related to the MEDIAN transaction.
On recruiting and compensations about a $1.6 million difference between the third quarter and fourth quarters.
And that’s primarily related to share grants and sign-on payments relocation benefits and placement fees for two new higher level acquisitions people that are now going to be reporting to Frank in New York.
And then to a lesser extent to the true up of our performance measures that our long-term share grants are based on.
It doesn’t result in any additional compensation or any additional share grants.
It just accelerates the vesting time because we exceeded those performance levels.
So that’s just by way of explanation of the higher G&amp;A in the fourth quarter.
Going forward we think it’s a pretty good quarterly run rate if you were to assume in the $10.5 million quarterly range.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your question.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Aldag for closing remarks.
Jr.</strong> Cathy thank you very much and as always we appreciate your interest in MBT and listing it on the call.
If you have any further questions don’t hesitate to call myself Steve Charles Lambert or Tim Berryman.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our first quarter and full year 2015 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and good morning everyone.
2014 was one of the best years for MPT and 2015 is shaping up to be another strong year.
Year-to-date we’ve closed on approximately $165 million in new properties and today we announced an increase of $250 million to the debtors also known as First Choice for additional freestanding emergency rooms and general acute care hospitals.
This brings our year-to-date acquisition total to about $415 million which is ahead of pace for the $600 million to $800 million acquisition target we discussed last quarter.
For the first quarter our normalized FFO per share was up 8% when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
This increases before we fully realized the benefits of our median investment which should recur by the third quarter.
Also if you ignore the FX swings it is an additional 11.5% increase.
And as Steve will remain you the FX swing currently has no effect on our plans as we intend to reinvest our Euros in Europe.
Parts of the acquisitions last quarter were two acute care hospitals leased to Prime Healthcare.
These hospitals were [indiscernible] system which was part of the Ascension Health.
St.
Joseph Medical Center is located in Kansas City Missouri and it has 310 beds.
The other is St.
Mary’s Medical center 846 bed hospital located in Blue Springs about 20 miles east of Kansas City.
These hospitals complement Prime’s existing facilities to the west and northeast creating a well dispersed health system in the Kansas City market.
Ascension has previously agreed to sell these facilities to HCA.
However that transaction was cancelled due to a prolonger view by the FTC.
Another facility which is part of last quarter’s acquisition is in the existing or acquired by Ernest Health.
This is the second existing facility acquired by Ernest.
The integration is going well and the average daily senses is right on track.
We also agreed to increase our funding to debtors also known as First Choice ERs.
We have increased our development land then by $250 million.
This amount will bring our total investment in their properties to $500 million.
To date we have 22 freestanding ERs up and operating with 10 freestanding ERs and two acute care hospitals still under construction with them.
We’re currently in negotiations for approximately $2 billion of additional property in the U.S.
and Western Europe.
This amount is fairly evenly divided between the two locations while we do not expect that a 100% of the $2 billion were closed.
I wanted to give you an idea the depth of our acquisition pipeline.
So let me now turn to our existing portfolio.
There is no new update on our two Arizona properties other than to say things continue to progress well and the rent is being paid.
[Indiscernible] increased their EBITDAR coverage about 48% to almost two times.
Gilbert EBITDAR coverage is well over 3 times.
McLeod Health has entered into an otherwise at least our two South Carolina facilities and we hope to have this transaction completed by early summer.
The least coverage for our existing portfolio has showed improvement in all three categories for properties in our portfolio for over a year.
The general acute care hospitals increased coverage from 4.28 times to 4.34 times fourth quarter to first quarter.
The LTACs increased coverage to 1.91 times from 1.8 times quarter-over-quarter and the Adeptus [ph] increased coverage at little over two times from 1.9 times quarter-over-quarter.
Only eight of our 25 tenant showed any decrease in EBITDAR coverage and the largest decrease was only 16 basis points.
You may have seen that IASIS filed an 8-K in April announcing a restatement of its financial statements.
It is important to note that the important to note that the error occurred in their Managed Care Division and had no impact on their hospitals.
Our IASIS hospitals continue to perform above our expectations.
Brown's corporate credit rating was recently upgraded by S&amp;P from B to B plus.
As I stated before admissions is only one of many barometers for judging the future operations of hospitals.
All three of our major categories saw significant increases.
General acute care hospitals increased 5.7% Adeptus increased 9.2% and LTACs 2.4%.
All of these figures are figures are year-over-year.
Median RHM is MPT's largest operator representing approximately 22%.
Prime is at 19% and Ernest – our debts are both at 11%.
MBT is right on track.
We’re delighted with the strength and performance of our existing portfolio and we continue to be enthusiastic about our acquisition pipeline.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Steven Hamner our CFO.
Thank you Ed.
This morning we recorded normalized FFO per share for the first quarter of $0.28 and approximate 8% year-over-year increase compared to 2014.
Included in this amount is the negative impact of $0.01 per share related to the strengthening of the dollar against the euro and to a much lesser extent that pound sterling.
Absent this accounting adjustment our normalized FFO would have been $0.29 per share which is 11.5% increase over last year’s first quarter.
Let me give you a brief explanation of why there is no impact on cash of this accounting adjustment.
Unless we need or expect to convert our euro or pound denominated income to dollars we do not realize the depreciation of a local currency value compared to the dollar.
We retain the full value of the local currency and we use this cash to pay our euro or pound denominated interest expense the local G&amp;A and importantly to make additional investments in continental Europe and the UK.
There is no reason for us to bring home dollars because first we have plenty of views for euros and pounds in executing our international growth strategy and second our dollar denominated domestic cash flow is sufficient to pay our dividend.
So as long as we do not convert our euro earnings and we productively reinvest them.
We believe investors are not impacted by the translation accounting.
For reporting purposes the only meaningful adjustment we make to FFO to arrive it up normalizing FFO is for approximately $6.2 million in acquisition costs of which $4.3 million in the quarter is associated with MEDIAN and RHM.
Let me give you an update on the MEDIAN transaction most of you will remember that MEDIAN was acquired in December around which time we invested about €425 million and began earning our lease rate on that investment.
We recently disclosed that we have now executed the majority of the sales and leaseback agreements that will lead to our acquisition of 100% of the real estate assets from the hospitals that makeup the previously disclosed total €705 million commitment.
And we expect to be materially fully invested and earning our lease return before the end of the second quarter.
Getting to this final stage has taken a few more weeks that we initially projected.
The added time resulted from careful legal structuring and completion of the final purchase price allocation.
In this process we’ve recognized that a few properties had significantly more value than we had initially estimated.
While five others did not meet our underwriting standards and we elected not to acquire to them primarily due to structuring legal and tax issues.
The initial purchase price allocation to these five properties was only €17.3 million which we allocated to the more valuable properties.
With the completion of the MEDIAN transactions we will – have created an asset for our shareholders that is cash return with annual inflation excalations for decade into the future.
As Ed just mentioned we see substantial similar opportunities both in the U.S.
and in Western Europe as the market for hospital real estate in both areas of the world continues to expand.
At the same time that we continue to make significant acquisitions of high yielding hospital real estate the capital markets remain extremely attractive.
At the time that we agreed to acquire the MEDIAN assets we retained the option to assume approximately €280 million of existing mortgage debt on attractive terms.
Since then we have issued almost $500 million in common stock earned an investment grade rating and seen global interest rates continue to compress especially in the euro zone.
Accordingly we have elected not to assume the MEDIAN debt but we’ll finance our remaining commitment with cash revolver borrowings and outside capital that may include long-term unsecured bond debt.
We have the capacity to complete the MEDIAN investments through our revolver and we will be opportunistic as to when we may access the capital markets to fund this investment on a longer term basis.
As of March 31 we had drawn approximately $300 million under our revolving credit facility leaving availability of about $725 million.
The average interest rate on our outstanding balance is approximately 1.54%.
At our last quarterly conference call we estimated that up on completion of the median transactions including permanently financing the acquisitions with long-term debt in equity capital.
Our run rate normalized FFO would range between a $1.21 and $1.27 due primarily to the recent acquisitions that Ed described earlier we have modestly adjusted our estimated range to $1.22 to $1.28.
As always that estimate is not contemplate unannounced acquisitions or capital market transactions other than for MEDIAN.
As we expect all of our anticipated 2015 acquisitions those that we have already announced are highly and immediately accretive.
And we therefore expect our results will continue to improve at attractive rates of increase.
With that I will be happy to turn the call back over to the operator for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Steve you can give us an update on the MEDIAN transaction.
I'm not sure if you mentioned this but why did you decide not pursue five of these assets? Yes.
Primarily because Michael there was minority interest there were some tax structuring inefficiency and these were the smallest of the assets and actually to acquire them would have brought down our overall master lease coverage.
Okay.
So there is no change I guess to your overall coverage ratios because the taxes that you would have to incur to actually acquire those assets? No we would not have incurred the taxes but it would have impacted the ability of the seller to sale them efficiently and then primarily because of that difficulty and the fact that it was at best neutral and more likely it was positive not to acquire these properties.
We elected to relocate the purchase cost as the agreement provided that we could do and take just the property that we absolutely wanted.
Okay and then can you give us an update on the timing you expect to issue that long term euro denominated bond and what's the benefit that you see from actually waiting and not doing then I guess that you've? Well the only thing I can say I guess is we are going to be opportunistic and that means watching the markets and timing to the extend that is prudent the issuance of the debt with the actual closing and funding of the fund requirements.
And although we don’t try to time markets for interest rate by any means the fact that we have not done it so far has only benefited us as we’ve seen the rates on Euro debt continue to decline.
And I’ll just add finally there is no firm commitment to issue debt until we actually announce that.
Okay and then can you give us timing on when you expects deploy the $250 million investment commitments to Adeptus? Mike that will be over the next 12 months it will probably not take that long but that’s our timing.
Keep in mind on that tranche as Adeptus has continue to evolve it strategy at least a couple of the hospitals that will be developed with those lines or actually general acute care hospitals that have a significantly higher purchase cost than the smaller free-standing yards.
Okay great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chad Vanacore with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you give us an idea of how large a tenant you think Adeptus can get you eventually and any color around your additional commitment to them.
Well the only commitment we have right now is the additional $250 million which bring this to approximately $500 million total.
I think that Adeptus f you follow them at all they've done an outstanding job.
Their actual performance has been above everybody’s expectations it’s a very large country there are lot of places where they continue to do – really continue to add additional hub-and-spoke ERs in acute care hospitals.
We certainly continue to want to do business with them but beyond the additional $250 million we don’t have any plans at this point.
Okay and then originally you had anticipated $600 million to $800 million investment in 2015 you are sitting at around $400 million right now.
Is there any thought – anyway we should be thinking about maybe something higher than that.
If you would take the comments that are made about what we are having active negotiations and we are actively have $2 billion of property in both the combined in Europe and the U.S.
that we’re working on right now.
It is certainly possible to that entire $2 billion could close.
Highly unlikely that will have a 100% success rate on all of that.
Because they are big ticket items the $600 million to $800 million target range is certainly still the minimum number.
But given that pipeline it could be significantly higher than that.
But again given that their large ticket items it’s hard to put to an exact number other than that range right now and I know it’s a very wide range.
All right.
And then did you mentioned on the MEDIAN transaction we shouldn’t expect the change from – of 1.7 times coverage? That is correct.
All right.
Thanks for your time.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning Jordan.
How are you? Okay.
Thank you.
So want to just see if you could kind of comment on the recent acquisition of Ardent by a competitor getting into this space not necessarily specifically surrounding that transaction.
But I'm curious as to how that – number one impacts the lay of the land as it relates to take competition for acute care hospitals with a large competitor getting into the business and how that obviously affects valuations? And separately maybe talk a little bit about coverage and I know it is that was it's significantly lower level relative to what we see in your legacy portfolio and maybe just how if you think about the existing coverage in your legacy portfolio versus what may be perceived as market? Jordan this is not the first attempt by our competitor to come into the acute care hospital market we’ve had good competition from our peers for the last two plus years.
As we have said lot longer than that we very much welcome the competition because it’s a very large market out there and we believe there is a room for a lot of us out there.
We believe that the positive benefit of Ventas making the harder transaction far out ways any competitive nature in it.
It validates our model if you look at the model that they choose it is very similar to the model that you’ve seen us do in the past.
The fact that they are in the acute care hospital sector with an operator that we think is a fine operator.
We think further validates our model and we think that the further education of the investor world having other competitors or peers in the acute care hospital sector will only help to increase our value – the value of our portfolio from making the hospital market more of a commodity much like – much of the other healthcare real estate portion.
As far as the coverages as you know they and many of our other peers report coverages on EBITDAR basis we have always reported our coverages on an EBITDAR basis.
We continue to underwrite our hospital general acute care hospitals at a stabilized EBITDAR lease coverage ratio of roughly three times with out post acute sector been in the 1.7 to 2 times coverage.
That’s a little bit stronger than what you’ve see right now on what was announced on the Ardent transaction and certainly not pretty to all of the details of their particular structure.
But I think that’s a fine portfolio that will bode very well for MPT in the long run.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then as it relates to the pipeline of $2 billion can you give us a split Europe versus U.S.? Yes fairly evenly divided between the two equally or roughly a $1 billion each and it is primarily to almost dominant predominantly all general acute care hospitals.
Okay and then lastly if I may.
The five assets that you are not acquiring and you’ve decided not to acquiring they have a €17.3 million valuation.
Is to be allocated it to the other properties.
What does that mean exactly? Well we underwrote the entire €705 million investment based on master lease level that’s corporate level EBITDA and the resulting coverage.
So and again there were 40 properties so as is not uncommon in a multi asset acquisition transaction like this – the final allocation of the agreed purchase price is made sometime after the agreements are executed and that’s exactly what we did here we had agreed to make the investment based on at least a minimum level of EBITDA and by removing these properties which firstly we did necessarily think added incrementally to the value of the portfolio and secondly we are bringing some inefficiencies to the closing process we feel very very confident that the additional values – significant additional value over and above what we under wrote for the reminder of the portfolio more than made up for the very limited if any contribution of EBITDA to the portfolio.
So Jordan I think that it was Chad a minute ago that asked if our coverage is we’re going to going to stay in the 1.7 range for the median portfolio.
Excluding these five properties that actually has increased slightly.
Okay great.
Thanks gentlemen.
Your next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Juan.
I was just hoping you could help walk us through the accounting for MEDIAN.
I know you've closed a piece in December EUR425 billion.
I think you said it at the lease rate so what were your accounting for that's incorporated investment quarter for the results and what would be additive to that on a go-forward basis once the rest of the transaction closes? Well we’ll just have – Juan the investment we made around the closing of EUR425 million was in the form of a loan that we’ll convert to ownership of the real estate when that those transactions finally closed.
So since then we’ve been earning the lease rate something above 8% on a cash basis in the first quarter.
And as we then begin to fund the closing of the real estate transactions that’s an additional EUR280 million plus or minus some adjsutments in expenses and as those come online we will just like any acquisition begin earning again at the lease rate from the time of that funding.
Okay great.
And then just on the new acute care hospitals acquired in the first quarter.
Just a quick question on the disclosure.
The press releases says $150 million a couple times.
But if I look at the supplemental Page 12 has different figures and looks like the acute care hospitals would be $110 million.
So I was just curious as to why the difference if there was typo? It is simply a typo the supplemental should show a total of 150 million.
Okay.
And then on the Community Health.
You mentioned that you've got a new tenant maybe in process.
So relative to the first quarter run rate what should we expect from lost revenue I guess until that new tenant comes in? Until we close or we’re not going to announce the details of it other than to say that all of the proposed transactions is included in guidance.
Should we expect any sort of rent ticked down or when I guess – is there any downtime in between one [indiscernible]? No no in fact there is what we think will be an interim tenant in there now.
So the doors never closed the hospitals never stop operating we replaced community with again what we think will be an interim tenant.
But if we’re unable to reach final agreement with McLeod the party we’re negotiating with now.
Then the hospital remains open and operating under this interim tenant.
Okay.
You've received the same rent that you were booking before the interim? Yes we would not expect.
The interim rent to change certainly changed significantly if and when we finalize negotiations with McLeod.
Okay.
And then I was just hoping you could speak to.
I guess what you guys expect from a regulatory perspective on some of your non-acute care hospitals IRFs and the LTACs to happen with the change in regulation that's been announced now for a while now.
But any comfort that you have on the seemingly leveling of playing field between those types of assets and skilled nursing in sort of the Affordable Care Act pushed towards side neutral payments and how those assets may fare and how you feel comfortable with the coverage you have currently? One that the short answer is that we believe well long-term it will have a neutral effect on the operations of our facilities.
Obviously we’ve all had time to be studying this for a long time and we’ve worked very hard with our operators to try to figure out where each one of our facilities are and where we think each one of them will make adjustments.
There is a long list of different things while we glad to go over with you all plan of the different adjustments that hospital operators can make of these LTAC operators can make obviously include things such as is payer mix staffing ratios those types of things.
But to give you the short answer worst case scenario remember we think that’s unusual.
But worst case scenario we think that this maybe a 10 basis points dropped in our coverage.
Okay.
And just I wish I guess I'll throw out there.
It could be helpful if you guys put in your supplemental coverage ratios and it seems like there and that's new system adopt the time so be helpful to have in Friday? Yes and we’re working on that.
The reason that is not in there now that we’re trying to get it all on the same quarter basis.
It is our anticipation that would be in their next quarter.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I would like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Ed Aldag for closing remarks.
Lisa thank you very much and thank all of you again for calling in and participating.
As always if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call myself Steven Hamner Charles Lambert or Tim Berryman.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2015 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Britney and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Charles Lambert.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our second quarter 2015 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by Federal Securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website again at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles.
Good morning everyone and thank you for listening in on today’s earnings call.
This summer has been a very successful summer for MPT.
Since the last earnings call we've announced almost $1.1 billion in acquisitions bringing our total investments year-to-date to $1.5 billion.
This already exceeds the record-setting total we acquired in 2014.
We expect the second half of 2015 to continue to add significantly to this number.
With the results announced this quarter we continue to provide double digit growth in our normalized FFO per share.
Our total assets today are approaching $6 billion and our diversification is better than ever.
Let me start this morning with the announcement we made concerning Capella Healthcare.
We first used the structure when we along with management purchased Ernest Health in 2012.
This has proved to be a truly successful partnership.
We're delighted to be able to use essentially the same structure to purchase Capella Healthcare with the existing management team.
We've signed definitive agreements and expect the transaction to close in the second half of 2015.
As the genesis of our company over 12 years ago our business model has always been to use our hospital operating knowledge to obtain not just real estate returns but in certain circumstances operating returns as well.
We accomplished that with our very first investment with Vibra Healthcare even before RIDEA was available and our investments in Ernest Health and our investments in numerous other smaller transactions.
With this release we announced at MPT has executed definitive documents to acquire $600 million of acute-care real estate interest and invest approximately an additional $300 million in support of a management led refinancing of Capella's operations.
Even with this transaction our RIDEA type investments represent only 7% of our assets.
Just like with Ernest Health we are not utilizing a third-party equity investor.
MPT is providing the capital for this comprehensive refinancing of Capella and will continue to have a significant stake in the operations of the business.
Among the many highlights of this transaction real estate investments in seven acute care hospitals producing top-tier industry margins and patient outcomes.
Each facility is the number one or number two player in its respective market.
The total portfolio generates a current EBITDAR coverage of 2.3 to 2.4 times trailing 12 months.
If you prefer to look at it using EBITDAR coverage the coverage jumps to 2.9 to 3 times.
We expect to continue to see good improvement on the same-store coverage for these facilities for the next few years.
With the completion of this transaction our diversification levels will make tremendous improvements across the board.
Operator single largest tenant now down to 18%; 15% at MEDIAN RHM are not merged Geography increases US-based assets to almost 80% and no single state representing more than 24%.
Property-type 75% of the US assets are now acute care single property down to 2% of our portfolio which is you all know we think is the most critical metric provides immediate accretion to MPT FFO of $0.04 per share not including the additional accretion we believe we will get from our partial ownership in operations.
A built-in pipeline for future acquisitions provides an opportunity for MPT to continue to grow its strong asset base of acute care hospitals.
The investment is made in an attractive 7.8 times trailing EBITDAR.
Our portfolio now includes four of the top 10 largest investor owned acute-care hospital operators in the US.
69% of our pro forma lease maturities are 2025 or beyond adding even more stability to our business.
This transaction is an execution of the business plan that was created when MPT was formed.
We had been and expect to continue to lease the financing source of choice to leading hospital operators.
Capella management’s decision to partner with MPT is a further validation of our experience and expertise in the structuring and executing of these types transactions.
We continue to be a leader in our space through innovative transactions and our early expansions to Western Europe while not straining from the investment thesis that has produced fantastic risk-adjusted returns for our stakeholders.
Obviously today's report has been dominated by Capella which is appropriate giving a scale in our belief and the quality of the investment.
However I want to make sure that our announcement regarding a strategic relationship with AXA Real Estate Investment Management does not get overlooked.
As many of you know AXA is one of the largest financial services firms in the world.
AXA Real Estate brings country level expertise that can be coupled with MPT's expertise in hospital.
As part of the actual relationship we are announcing two investments today; the first is in Spain for an acute care hospital with approximately 200 beds leased to one of Spain's leading operators this will be a 30 year lease.
The second is in Northern Italy for a portfolio of seven acute care hospitals with approximately 800 beds and one outpatient clinic.
These hospitals will be leased to one of Italy's largest private hospital operators for 24 years under a master lease type structure with one six-year extension.
In both cases MPT will own 50% of the JV and funds affiliated with or managed by AXA Real Estate will own the other half.
Our investment in Italy will be approximately €90 million and in Spain it will be approximately €21.4 million.
We’re excited that a firm like AXA would seek to work with MPT.
And while there are no limitations created by these arrangements we are all very hopeful that this is the beginning of a growing and long-lived partnership with AXA.
Subsequent to closing which is subject to completion of definitive documentation and customary conditions we will share with you more detail about these very high quality facilities and their operators.
This is a continuation of our prudent steps to invest in the attractive regions of Western Europe.
We have been a leader in this trend and expect that to continue in the near future.
We continue to see growth in the Ernest Health portfolio.
We added two facilities this past quarter; one through an acquisition of an existing facility housing both in LTAC and in IRF for $44 million in Lubbock Texas; and another one is a development facility to be operated as an IRF by Ernest in Toledo Ohio for $20 million.
This brings the total number of Ernest facilities to 26 10 more than our original purchase with them.
Steve will update you more on the details but we’ve completed most of the loan to sell leaseback conversions for MEDIAN.
We expect the remaining five facilities to convert during the remainder of the year.
You probably noticed that we included the same-store EBITDAR rent coverage in our supplemental informational Page 12.
This page gives you detailed information on coverage for our main property types both on a year-over-year and a quarter-over-quarter basis.
We also break out the number of properties and investment amount for different stratification.
We hope this information will provide you with a better detailed picture of just how well our portfolio is performing.
Generally speaking the coverages were essentially flat at 4.6 times for the acute-care; 1.9 times for the LTACs and 2.8 times for the IRFs.
Earlier in this presentation I discussed the potential for a built-in pipeline for future hospital acquisitions by Capella.
I also discussed the additional hospitals we've added to the original Ernest portfolio.
Repeat business is a very important part of our overall organic growth and our business model.
We've been very successful at building relationships.
Our first investment with Prime Healthcare was one hospital and $28 million today our total investments with Prime is $901 million; Ernest started at $396 million today we have $572 million invested.
Our original investment with ISIS was $66 million it now stands at $348 million; we started with $100 million at Adeptus today its $500 million.
Our first investment with Waterland of RHM and MEDIAN Kliniken was €175 million less than two years later it was €940 million.
This track record bodes very well for our future growth.
Now I will call on Steve to walk you through the financial details of the quarter.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
This morning we recorded normalized FFO for the second quarter of $0.30 per diluted share that’s a 15% year-over-year increase.
Our year-to-date results of $0.58 per share represents a 12% increase over last year's first six months.
The primary adjustment to arrive at normalized FFO for the second quarter is approximately $26 million of acquisition cost the majority of which about $22 million is comprised of real estate transfer taxes that we are incurring as expected as the MEDIAN assets are acquired.
Legal cost that’s another $2.1 million and other cost directly attributable to successful acquisitions about $1.6 million.
I will give you an update on the MEDIAN transaction before we turn to Capella.
Early in the quarter we signed purchase agreements for 32 of the 35 properties.
As of today 30 of those have closed for an aggregate purchase price of about €627 000 million with a €20 million 31st expected to close in the third quarter.
The final four properties aggregating about €58 million are expected to close by year-end completing the €705 million acquisition that we announced almost a year ago.
Turning to Capella as we have previously disclosed and as Ed mentioned a minute ago we have agreed to acquire along with Capella management Capella Holdings Inc.
for a total enterprise value of approximately $900 million.
And again reiterating Ed’s comment that that reflects about a 7.8 times multiple on recent historical EBITDAR.
Subsequent to the transactions MPT will fully own real estate interest of about $600 million.
The $600 million will be represented by $390 million in acquired properties that will be leased back to Capella and $200 million in mortgage loans.
The blended GAAP yield to us will approximate 9.1% that’s based on an escalator floor of 2% annually; it will also be a 4% ceiling.
The leases and loans do have certain cross default provisions.
The remaining $300 million of the $900 million enterprise value will be in the form of an approximately $290 million fixed-rate 15-year repayable loan and a 49% interest in the joint venture that acquires Capella.
Capella management will own the majority 51% interest and will be responsible for operations and management of the hospitals.
Based on the 9.1% GAAP yield related to the real estate investments and the fixed rate on the $290 million joint venture loan we expect to realize an additional $0.04 per share in normalized FFO.
This further reflects our assumptions relating to the long-term financing of the acquisition which generally include leverage of approximately 45% debt cost of approximately 5% and recent common stock valuations.
After Capella has paid to MPT lease and mortgage payments and the fixed coupon on the $290 million loan we will in addition be allocated 65% of the distributions of the joint venture subject to certain adjustments.
We expect that during the first full year after completion of the transactions that this will result in an additional $0.02 per share and just to be clear this $0.02 per share is not included in the $0.04 per share accretion we have previously estimated and that I just mentioned.
We have commitments from a bank group for a 364 day $1 billion bridge loan which along with our revolver availability gives us the capacity to complete the Capella and other investments announced this morning and the development commitments that are disclosed in the supplemental report that was posted to our website earlier today.
We will be opportunistic as to when we may access the capital markets to fund these investments on a longer term basis.
As of June 30 we had drawn approximately $674 million under our $1.125 billion revolving credit facility leaving availability of about $450 million.
The average interest rate on our outstanding balances approximates 1.5%.
At our last quarterly call we estimated that upon completion of the MEDIAN transactions including permanently financing the acquisitions with long-term debt and equity capital our run rate normalized FFO would range between $1.22 and $1.28 per diluted share.
Due primarily to the $1.5 billion in accretive acquisitions that we have discussed this morning our expected run rate normalized FFO is expected to range from $1.28 to $1.32.
As always this estimate does not contemplate unannounced acquisitions or capital markets transactions other than for the assumptions concerning the Capella acquisition I described a few moments ago.
It also does not include the anticipated $0.02 per share that we expect as our share of first-year operations of Capella.
Based on the strength of our pipeline of expected additional acquisition opportunities the growth we expect from continued expansion of our existing tenants and the favorable capital markets conditions we have good reason to expect that our per share normalized FFO will continue to grow in the foreseeable future.
So that we will be happy to take any questions and I’ll turn the call back to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thank you and good morning.
On Capella if you could – could you maybe breakout how you valued the operator versus the real estate I think I heard the 7.8 times EBITDA I think was that an overall entity value on the $900 million? Yes the 7.8 was the total enterprise value that contemplates all of the assets and operations of Capella and we further bifurcated that down to $600 million of that $900 million with allocated to real estate interest and I even took it further than that on this call disclosing that $390 million of the real estate interest would be purchased and leaseback and the remaining $210 million would be structured as mortgage loans.
And just to reiterate the reason we sometimes use the mortgage loan structure is to avoid in-site taxes that would otherwise require additional investment that we can avoid by structuring a portion of the real estate value as loans.
And just so ultimately your – what’s the implied valuation of the operator so there's $290 million or $300 million total investment to the operator for 49% interest? Yes.
Well the operator has a 100% interest.
And 100% interest is shared 51% with the management team and 49% with us.
But your question regarding the valuation is again based on the same starting point which was 7.8 times historical EBITDA and then carving out the real estate then you end up with the $300 million and that valuation equates to about a 4.2 time to 4.3 times multiple on the operating entity.
On a pro forma basis for the rent and mortgage payments? That's correct.
Okay.
That's helpful thank you.
And then as it relates to capital you said that you will be opportunistic as it relates to the capital markets and you’ve got the bridge loan in place for now.
Can you maybe obviously it’s a little bit of a delicate situation and in terms of what you guys expect to do but can you talk about how you would envision funding relative to closing from a timing perspective? Well again I guess and most accurate we can say is we are going to be opportunistic we’re going to keep our eyes on the markets and at the right time in our view we will access that capital.
Now it’s important that we point out that just because we’re not doing something immediately that shouldn't imply that we’re trying to time the market there are a lot of conditions that have to come together and we believe we will be ready to access the capital markets when all of those conditions converge and that could be sooner than later in fact.
What’s the debt equity split assumed in the $0.04 accretion roughly? 45% leverage based on the Capella transaction.
Okay and then lastly maybe just as it relates to AXA can you speak to the structure of the venture with them? Is there a size of the joint venture are there fees that you guys will receive anything you could sort of share there I know its early days? It is early days Jordan and we have signed some agreements but certainly not all of them and so we’re a little bit constrained on giving the financial details.
The important thing for us and why we wanted it to become known sooner than later is is the strategic import and value to us of having what truly is the 800 pound gorilla in Western Europe.
Sourcing deals for us leading interference in ways in certain governments where we’re not used to that and don't know people and so just structurally the first two deals are separate JVs they do not include further commitments beyond the initial transaction and we’ll be eager when we get a little bit further down the road to describe some more of those details.
But the main point again is this is really a strategically valuable transactions for us.
My last one on that is I just noticed you know obviously that the ventures are planned to be managed obviously locally by AXA given that that’s sort of their domain if you will.
Can you just maybe speak to what the opportunity is as you guys see it in terms of investing in Spain in northern Italy as seemingly more passive investor in this JV? Well I’m not sure we're going to be any more passive than we normally would be they will manage locally.
But again these are to a great extend net leases which do not require a lot of facility management there is regulatory management and reporting and so forth.
But the real value one of the real values that AXA brings is their footprint is their market and their resources across almost all jurisdictions.
And the value we bring that they were looking for is expertise in hospitals operations and real estate.
So that’s the synergy that you know in the cliché we hope the value is greater than the sum of this parts and we've taken a modest step to begin developing that relationship and truly expect that gets larger as we get closer to finalizing these first deals.
But Jordan I think it’s very important to point out that we maintain our very active role in the underwriting of the healthcare operations and in the asset management of the healthcare operations.
Okay.
We look forward to hearing more details.
I will yield the floor.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
[0:26:09] [Audio Gap] Italy and Spain investments I know you’ve been looking at these markets for some time now but it seems like these deals are quicker than originally expected what changed there? Well nothing changed Mike and I didn’t hear the first part of your question you came into the middle of sinus let me know if I don’t answer the full question.
This did not happen any quicker than we expected it to happen we’ve been looking at these markets for a long time we’ve been working on these particular portfolios with AXA for a long time.
Okay.
Then what are the near-term goals in this market how big do you want to grow these portfolios and will these existing – or will you just grow with this existing relationship? Our goals for these markets are the same as they are in every market.
It’s not to be any particular size in any given market but to take advantage of opportunities within those markets.
We typically wouldn't go into a market if we thought that it was going to be limited Spain as an example with a €21 million investment here.
Obviously we expected there will be more opportunities there than just the $21 million the opportunity.
In Italy we already have other opportunities that we’re looking at so it certainly doesn’t mean that we’ll do any more but both of them are places that we would welcome additional investments.
Okay.
And then with regard to the Capella investment how should we think about the annual capital expenditures and will you start providing that for us once that deal closes? Well the capital expenditures we obviously in doing our underwriting we had figures that we expect and we work through with the management company at each individual hospital.
The expenditures are being funded they are out of operations and is taken into account in our analysis.
If there are any extraordinary capital expenditures then we’ll look at those on a case-by-case basis.
Generally speaking the capital expenditures we expect for this seven hospital portfolio is somewhere between $25 million and $35 million a year.
Great.
And then my last question is on the Adeptus development.
I think in the press release this morning you indicated that the cash yield will be double digits.
But I thought that you previously announced that those developments will be about 9% cash yield is there anything different that I’m missing between I guess that reporting there? No there is no difference.
Keep in mind that during construction which can take depending on local conditions can take upwards of 9 plus months.
During construction they're not paying rent on our construction advances that accrues and so accounting conventions prohibit us from recognizing that what is truly income.
So it accrues and becomes part of the lease base.
And so then when you start recognizing the repayment of that portion it pushes in the case of Adeptus it pushes us up over that 10% mark on a cash receipt basis.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
I think I have to send you guys Rosetta Stone books with all these different countries and languages you have to be in.
Just getting away from the deal pipeline a little bit could you just talk a little bit about you know some of your larger tenants ISIS Ernest Prime kind of what how those guys are doing generally what market conditions are like for them? Sure.
Everyone in the existing portfolio is doing very well Tayo.
No one has strong growth but everyone has good solid growth.
The ISIS hospitals that we won are performing exceptionally well continuing to be leaders in their markets; Prime Healthcare markets have been very stable for the last year they continue to perform very well all across the board.
Ernest Health has done very well in the last 18 months or so they had the downturn with their LTACs about two or three years ago as did everybody else but their entire portfolio is performing exceptionally well.
When you look at same store analysis and I think I gave those exact numbers on the last earnings call it show just how well the existing original 16 hospitals are performing and then as I mentioned on today's call we’ve got 10 additional hospitals with them so their overall EBITDA is doing exceptionally well.
Okay.
Then second question this kind of news this – an interesting news this morning from Community Health of them kind of spinning out some of their rural hospitals into a different entity.
Just kind of curious what you think about that and whether you think that would be a good strategy from any of your operators that may also have decent exposure to rural hospitals? Yeah Tayo I know a little bit about some of the community hospitals I only saw that list late last night.
It’s interesting – it will be interesting when we all get looking at it in a little more detail because they will continue to own a large number of rural hospitals in any definition.
So I can’t address specifically what they're trying to do in separating what they call rural hospitals from their total overall portfolio.
And other than that I just don’t think I can address it at this point.
Not sure.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Tayo.
Your next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi just hoping you could speak a little bit more on Capella in terms of the OpCo sort of the capital in place there or equity to fund growth and how that works and was the $25 million to $30 million in CapEx for the entire real estate value? The $25 million to $35 million in CapEx is for the seven existing portfolio of hospital.
But it’s not just real estate; I mean that’s the whole company CapEx.
It may include expensive equipment and machinery and other non-real estate capital volumes.
But how is the rest of the OpCo structured other than the $290 million of debt and could you provide what the cash return on that $290 million of the 15 year loan is? So what we’ve said and trying to be as descriptive as the agreement allow us to be what we said is the coupon on that $290 million loan is equivalent to the initial going in cash rate on the leases and the mortgage loans.
And I think if you would do the back in the envelope type math we've given you that the GAAP coupon you know you’re going to get to something in the low 8s as the going in cash coupon.
So that’s the fixed return that we did pay along with the lease and the mortgage income and then basically after all of that is paid we split with our joint venture partner who is Capella management we get 65% of the remaining earnings or distributions or whatever the measure is and they get 35%.
For the first year which by the way takes into account this $25 million plus CapEx run.
For the first year we expect that that will result in an extra $0.02 a share for us over and above the $0.04 that we’ve included in run rate guidance.
Can I ask why you haven’t included that in run rate guidance if you feel pretty comfortable that you’ll get it? We are very comfortable that we will get it but it’s not contractual.
And the other $0.04 is contractual they have to make the payment just like anything and we'd rather recognize that non-contractual estimated income as we actually realize it.
Okay.
And just one more question on the OpCo what’s the split between or how is the rest of the OpCo capitalized other than the $290 million is there any equity in there? Yes.
The equity will be split as same as the ownership 51% to the management team and 49% to an MPT subsidiary.
But what’s the dollar amount of equity relative to the… It’s nominal.
You should probably assume total not more than $10 million.
I mean that’s very very important to especially the management team but – so I don’t mean to despair you by calling it nominal but it’s not material to the transaction.
Got you.
And the non AXA on the JV structure who is sourcing these deals and is the partner AXA the parent or retail fund investors? Like who ultimately bears the risk from an AXA perspective? From the risk bearing perspective they are managed funds either for country AXA insurance providers for example or outside funds for example in one of the transactions we’ve described and we just can’t name but it’s a highly familiar US state pension fund and so those are the types of partners that we have.
And as far as sourcing the deal it goes both ways and in fact that’s how the relationship got initiated is we actually were successful in acquiring an asset that AXA was also attempting to acquire and that caused them to bring to us the deal and we took to them a deal and that’s the way we expect it to work is both entities will be bringing possibilities to the venture.
There is no obligation I think Ed mentioned it there is no obligation on the part of either venture to take or even offer for the most part of the transactions.
And just lastly from me.
On MEDIAN can you just give an update on the debt financing there timing what you are seeing in terms of cost in the marketplace today and why you haven't moved as of yet to secure that? The Euro bond market has been virtually shut down until recently starting in early to mid- June when the Greece circumstances took over the headlines and truly it’s only been recently that that market begins to show life.
And so just like the other capital markets transactions that we plan in the foreseeable future we will be we are prepared to act when market conditions are good for us and the bankers both here and in Europe seems somewhat encouraged that that market is redeveloping and finding – getting its feet under it again.
Any sensitive pricing that you could arrange? No you know that’s one of the things you know that we keep our eye on is not only pricing but the depth of the market and really all of components that go into being confident that we can get a good strong execution.
Thank you.
Thanks Juan.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Yeah hi.
I guess for the Capella real estate part of the transaction can you talk a little bit more about the $210 million mortgage loan what assets is on is it outside of the seven that you’re buying? No it’s not.
There is seven assets; five will be subject to leases got some conventional type leases and there is nothing that would otherwise keep us from putting the other two under leases except if we did that of course we’d be paying Capella creating a capital gain that would require immediate discharge of that tax liability.
And so we can achieve exactly the same things economically structurally credit wise by simply loaning mortgage funds to those operators which by the way will be guaranteed and will have cross default provisions.
So we’re not losing any credit.
It’s solely because of the desire not to pay taxes when it's not necessary to pay taxes.
Okay so I guess legally you’re buying five and putting the mortgage on two though is that correct? That’s correct that’s correct.
Okay.
And is the term on the mortgage the same as the lease term and everything is identical? Everything is identical including the escalator but of course perhaps getting into the weeds of this level but remember the 9.1% GAAP yield we get to straight line the least but we don't get to straight line the loan amount but we nonetheless get a guaranteed 2% escalation every year beginning in year one even though it’s not reflected in that 9.1% blended rate.
Got it.
Okay.
So it’s basically a 100% LTV loan then? On the mortgage? On the mortgage? That’s right.
Again it’s meant to mimic the lease structure and of course of purchasing leaseback is done at a 100% of the real estate valuation.
Got it.
And just to clarify the run rate guidance of 120 to 132 that has $0.04 in there but not the $0.02 is that correct? Correct.
Correct.
Okay.
I think that’s it.
Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
There are no further questions left in the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Aldag for closing remarks.
Thank you Britney and thank all of you for joining us today and as always if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call myself Steven Hamner Charles Lambert or Tim Berryman.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Medical Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Luanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Medical Liberties Properties Trust conference call to discuss our third quarter 2015 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our website at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by federal securities laws the company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our website at www.medical propertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles.
And thank all of you for joining us today for our 2015 third quarter earnings call.
As you know by now we’ve generated $0.32 per share of normalized funds from operations for the third quarter $0.32 represents a 19% increase over the prior year quarter.
Year-to-date our normalized FFO per share is up 15% over last year.
We achieved these results by investing in strong properties at strong returns with strong spreads to our cost of capital.
This past quarter we again set a number of records for MPT that we are very proud of.
We had the highest revenue for a quarter we had the lowest G&amp;A as a percent of our revenue the highest number of properties and the lowest operator and per property concentration levels.
During the third quarter we added significantly to in place FFO by completing the $900 million acquisition of Capella Healthcare’s seven hospital system eight with the addition of the Kershaw Hospital in South Carolina that was added after the initial transaction.
We completed to transactions with Prime Healthcare for a total of $130 million closed on the previously announced joint venture investment to develop a general acute care hospital in Valencia Spain for approximately $25 million and commenced collecting rent on an additional six Adeptus facilities.
With the above additions the completion of the development projects currently underway the pending MEDIAN an Italian acquisitions and the terming out of our revolver in the permanent financing our current normalized FFO run rate is expected to be between $1.30 and $1.33 per share.
And very importantly these numbers do not include any potential earnings from MPT’s equity investment in Capella.
Our portfolio is as strong as it has ever been in the history of our company.
We have great diversification from a geographic standpoint and operator standpoint a property type standpoint and exposure to any one property standpoint.
Specifically geographically no state represents more than 15% of our portfolio and the next four U.S.
states represent about 25% aggregately 82% of the properties are in the United States with the remaining 18% in three different Western European countries.
Our largest operator only represents 17% of the total and most importantly no one property represents more than 2% of our overall portfolio.
As you can read in detail in our supplement regarding same-store coverages our acute care hospitals continue to generate an EBITDA lease covered ratio of about 4.7 times.
The LTACH had an unchanged to 1.9 times and the [URPS] [ph] increased to 2.9 times.
All total our portfolio is showing lease coverage of approximately 3.8 times.
You may have read the earnings releases by HCA and CHS that concern some in the market.
This topping out of the short-term benefits from the ACA was predicted by us and is not at all surprising or alarming.
While the growth of the revenue may have slowed the strength of the overall acute care hospital market is still there and will continue to be there.
Our acute care coverage of 4.5 times is further cushion for any dips in the market.
However we are long-term investors and we remain very bullish on acute care hospitals.
As we are fond to saying you cannot paint a picture where we would not have hospitals in this country.
We are also well aware of the pending changes in payment rates and patient classification criteria in the LTACH industry and of course our tenants who are the leading operators in the post-acute industry have been aware of these changes since before they were even announced to the public and are well into the execution of plans to meet these changes.
As we have previously said while we may see a slight decline in coverage from our LTACH hospitals in the pending year we are not concerned as they currently generate strong coverage and can endure absorb any potential downturn in revenue as they adjust to the new payment rates and expand their clinical services lines to accommodate side neutral patients.
The capital markets in their entirety not just for MPT or REITs remain challenging despite this we have tremendous opportunities.
However we will be very selective if and when we make additional investments.
If we do make additional investments we -- our expectations are that they will be leverage neutral to deleveraging.
Clearly we are not happy with where our stock price is and as we have discussed before our portfolio is very valuable and we have begun the process of exploring select sales of groups of assets as an alternative source of capital.
Until we have something definitive here we won’t be able to discuss these further.
MPT is running on all cylinders.
Our portfolio is generating the strongest coverage in the industry.
Our diversification in every category is the best it has ever been.
Clearly the stock price is not where we would like it to be but operationally financially and strategically MPT is at the top of the market.
Steve if you will now take the time to go through our quarter financial results.
Thank you Ed.
Just to repeat a few things this morning we reported normalized FFO for the third quarter of $0.32 per diluted share a 19% year-over-year increase.
Our year-to-date result of $0.91 per share represents a 15% increase over last year’s first nine months.
The primary adjustment to arrive at normalized FFO is approximately $25 million of acquisition costs the majority of which about $18 million is comprised of real estate transfer taxes we incurred as the MEDIAN assets were acquired.
Legal and other costs primarily related to Capella transactions that’s $5 million and other costs are directly attributable to successful acquisitions about $2 million.
We also sold several properties for gains which were offset by write-offs unrelated to build that is straight line and other receivables and we incurred about $4 million in financing costs related to the Capella financing transactions all of which are reflected in our reconciliation to normalized FFO.
During and after the quarter we continued to finalize the purchase of the various MEDIAN facilities.
As of today 30 facilities have been purchased and re-categorized from loans to real estate resulting in an aggregate purchase price of €627 million.
We expect although there is no assurance that the final two properties aggregating about €62 million will close over the next nine months.
We elected to terminate our rights to three of the initial properties with an aggregate purchase price of only €16 million and in return we have a right of refusal on up to a total of €750 million on future MEDIAN acquisitions.
RHM the operator of the first 11 hospitals we acquired in Germany and MEDIAN expect to finalize the previously announced merger doing this year’s fourth quarter.
At that time MEDIAN will be the largest privately-owned operator of rehabilitation hospitals in Germany.
Subject to Ed’s earlier comments about our pipeline and acquisition pace over the near and long-term we expect this relationship to generate ongoing and profitable investment opportunities for years to come.
We previously announced the closing on October 31st of the Capella transactions and our portfolio today includes the seven hospitals that were included plus an eighth hospital that Capella acquired late last month for a total investment of $35 million.
This once again demonstrates one of the major benefits of our Capella relationship.
We expect to continue to have the opportunity to evaluate our investment interest in new facilities that Capella may elect to acquire.
In addition to the MEDIAN and Capella acquisitions we closed on three other properties during and after the third quarter for an aggregate investment of approximately $154 million at a weighted average expected cap rate approaching 10%.
All that $15 million of this was funded and that is expected to be funded during the fourth quarter.
Two of the properties aggregating $130 million will be leased to Prime and the third was the Valencia Spain development venture wherein a very large U.S.
state teacher pension fund is our co-investor and AXA Real Estate Investment Manager is the manager.
The Prime Investments was structured as mortgage loans initially with our option to purchase and lease back to Prime.
We expect to exercise this option in the near-term.
Our outstanding debt as of September 30th is scheduled in the supplemental package that we posted to our website this morning.
As of today our borrowings under the revolving credit facility total $1.1 billion.
Our current net debt to total assets is under 52% and approximately 50% on a market cap basis.
While debt represents about 6.3 times run rate EBITDA and fixed charges are covered 3.6 times this is on the high end of our historical range and we intend to reduce it in future periods.
We continue to watch the long-term debt markets and expect to replace some of our revolver borrowings with fixed rate debt as conditions warrant.
As Ed mentioned our stock price does not reflect our value and we do not expect to use common equity to lower our debt metrics at this time.
Nor would we have any necessity to given the metrics I just described along with having no meaningful lease expirations or debt maturities over the next several years.
One reason we normally operate with lower leverage metrics is exactly in order to be able to retain strong liquidity and coverages during volatile periods without pressure to sell assets or equity.
As Ed noted we expect to be able to start lowering the leverage back to our historical target range with potential select asset sales that would capture unrecorded value and further demonstrate the strength of our uniquely positioned portfolio.
At our last quarterly conference call we estimated that upon the completion of the Capella and MEDIAN transactions including permanently financing these acquisitions with long-term debt and equity capital our run rate normalized FFO would range between $1.28 and $1.32.
This morning we increased our expected annualized run rate normalized FFO to range between $1.30 and $1.33.
The increase results from continued strong performance of our in-place properties and other assets the limited acquisitions other than Capella and MEDIAN during the quarter and higher cost of capital.
This estimate does not contemplate earnings if any from our investment in Capella operations and as always unannounced acquisitions or capital markets transactions.
It also does not include the completion and leasing of our most recent commitment to Adeptus of $250 million.
So with that we will be happy to take questions and I will turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Ed can you give us an update on the company’s investment strategy and how you plan on executing those strategies given the current volatility in the capital markets and your high leverage metrics? Mike the strategy hasn’t changed from where it has always been.
We started the company some 10 years ago.
As you know because you have been covering us for a long time but we have had periods where we have had large amounts of acquisitions.
And we have had periods where we have set out the acquisition markets.
We will selectively look at our acquisitions now.
We have tremendous opportunities.
We’ll continue to take advantage of those opportunities where they meet the three metrics that we have -- one metric that we have always said and the other two metrics which I mentioned today.
One is that it is accretive and two is that it is either leverage neutral or de-leveraging situation.
And three that it adds the strength to our portfolio.
We are still very high on the acute care hospital sector.
Right now the acute care hospital sector represents about 70% of our overall U.S.
portfolio.
And we’ll continue to focus on that particular market.
And then should we expect your investment activity to slow over the next few quarters because of this? Well I certainly think so Mike.
We’ve been -- if you look at where we’ve been over the last two years with doing over $1 billion in the last two years and $1 billion this past quarter we certainly do expect that you won’t see that type of investment in the near future.
Okay.
And then my last question can you kind of talk about maybe what type of assets you’d be willing to sell? Would you be willing to turn off your interest in any of the operators or would you be willing to sell some of your I guess what your general acute-care hospitals LTACH service or any other kind of color that you want to give us? Yeah.
Right now as I’ve mentioned today and on the last call and in numerous meetings that we’ve had.
Our portfolio is truly as strong as it has ever been.
There is a tremendous amount of value and various properties all across our portfolio in every sector that we are in.
We also had the value in our Ernest equity portion and in the Capella portion.
We certainly would look at all of those.
It’s been part of our strategy from the very beginning that at some point in time at the right points in time that we would sell our equity investments and our operators.
But obviously we think those have to be at the right particular time.
We certainly are not just going to give anything away.
We have properties in our portfolio that are generating double-digit lease coverage ratios that are performing exceptionally well that are generating double-digit cap rates.
And clearly those properties have a tremendous amount of value that don’t show up anywhere on our balance sheet.
So it’s not any one particular property.
We don’t have a situation where we are trying to sell non-core assets or we are trying to sell dog assets.
We’ve got properties that have a tremendous amount of value in them that I don’t believe is being recognized.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Tayo your line is open.
Your phone maybe muted.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Tayo.
Hey.
Ed you did brought up a really good point about your equity stakes in some of your operators and how you may not be fully getting value for that.
Have you guys done any exercise around just how much those stakes would be worth today? If you were to try to sell them… Yeah.
Tayo we do that all the time.
We do it on a regular basis.
Ernest is the one where we have the largest investment obviously.
We have a $100 million investment.
Remember the original thesis there was that as we added or as Ernest added properties to their portfolio that we wouldn’t have to make any additional operating investment in Ernest but yet we still retain approximately 80% of the EBITDA on those additional properties.
Since we -- from the original 16 properties they have added approximately five or seven additional hospitals that are generating good EBITDA.
We haven’t had to pay any additional equity investment on those.
Yet we have the value of the 80% of the EBITDA.
If you assume that approximately -- those are generating approximately $2.5 million each in EBITDA and we are getting 80% of that and you use any reasonable multiple then you see our $100 million investment clearly ought to be worth somewhere in the neighborhood of $200 million.
Okay.
Any other -- so apart from Ernest any of the other equity positions what kind of valuations do you think you could put on them today versus what you are carrying them at in your book? Yeah.
Well Tayo as you know with the exception of Ernest and Capella and Capella is brand new the other equity investments in our operators are really small investments.
I think all total we’ve got about $10 million invested in the additional equity pieces.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
And then just the updated guidance on the run rate again if I heard you correctly there are some assumptions about longer-term financing in those numbers.
Ed or Steve could you talk a little bit about what assumptions you are making about permanent financing that goes into those numbers? Right.
Primarily as I mentioned we’ve got $1.1 billion on the line.
And as we look at markets today and evaluate on an ongoing basis the best way to perhaps permanentize some of that would be -- with similar long-term unsecured bonds that we have issued recently.
We think if you included about $500 million in there at about 5.5% all-in rate then that gets you a long way toward the guidance range that we’ve announced this morning.
And then the balance of the line the $600 million you just assume does that remains on the line for guidance purposes? For the guidance purposes.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Last one for me again I appreciate your patience.
The termination of three of the assets in the MEDIAN deal could you just talk a little bit about why you decided to do that and go for the first look option instead on future? Sure.
And let me just make clear while the kind of order of magnitude range of a potential offering I just mentioned and the rate of 5.5%.
For purposes of the guidance we’ve adjusted the rate on the revolver 100% of the revolver to 5.5%.
So we have got $1.1 billion.
We’ve included interest at 5.5% on that revolver whereas we are paying around 2%.
So we basically have assumed a 100% terming out of the revolver.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
That’s ok.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
So on to you next question then you’ll remember back in April we actually reduced at that time the size of the MEDIAN transaction.
And it was primarily related to these three properties.
You will remember we dropped down from about 40 to 35 properties.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And so these three we continue to think we would -- we may do but as we got more into underwriting these three specific properties and strategies that MEDIAN has we elected to just terminate our right to acquire these.
And in return because if you remember when we announced MEDIAN we had basically a target of €705 million.
And so by reducing -- by terminating these three that came down and we needed to be compensated for that.
And in return we have now the right of first refusal at established investment metrics including the return or up to €750 million.
And so we absolutely expect to have the opportunity to exercise those options in the relatively near term.
Again all subject to the capital cost and other environments that Ed has mentioned.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Tayo.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Morning.
Just wanted to touch base on the acute care sector and what you have experienced recently as far as -- if anything in terms of cost pressures payor mix issues that have sort of been highlighted by some of the other operators -- public operators.
Jordan if you may recall during that time period of the benefits from some of those public operators we said at that time that we thought it was a short-term benefit and that everything would reduce back to a more normalized basis.
And we think that is exactly what happened.
And we will also recall that primarily our operators because they weren’t in primarily Medicaid expansion state didn’t have the benefit of that short-term benefit that the other publicly companies did.
So when you look at our overall portfolio and our acute care operators we have not had any dips or any surprises that may have been related to the CHS or HCA on that recent announcement.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then in terms of the asset sale discussion I know you don’t want to give too much away here.
But I am curious conceptually how you would think about assets sales either by property type or geography or any other exposure you might want to share.
Jordan there really isn’t anything in our portfolio that I would necessarily like to sell off.
And often I am asked is there anything out there that you wish wasn’t in your portfolio? And for the first time in the history of the company there really isn’t anything that we would just like to get rid of.
So what we are looking at now is what is the easiest commodity to sell what is a transaction that we can affect the quickest and more importantly what is the transaction where we can show to the market just how valuable our overall portfolio is.
So that has been more of the two driving factors than the overall particular segments in the overall portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you.
I look forward to seeing you guys next week.
Anything you guys would offer as a preview for your Investor Day? I think that it will be an outstanding day for all of our investors and analysts that are there.
Because not only will you hear updates from MPT but more importantly you will get to see and hear directly from various CEOs of some of the very best operators of acute care hospitals post-acute care hospitals and international operators in our portfolio.
Great.
Looking forward to it.
Thanks Jordan.
Your next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please proceed sir.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for the time.
Good morning Juan.
To your comments about not necessarily wanting to sell assets should we read into that that maybe joint ventures are a possibility and have had you any discussions with AXA about maybe looking at some of your U.S.
acute care hospitals? Yeah.
Without getting too specific at this time Juan you certainly can’t expect some outright sales and you can expect some situations where we would retain a portion of the ownership.
And is there any dollar figure you have in mind for what you would like to sell to help to delever? Not at this time Juan.
It will be significant enough to make a difference in two respects.
One for the obvious delevering standpoint.
But the other one also just as importantly -- to truly let the market understand just how valuable this portfolio is.
And then I know you said that you feel your U.S.
LTACH exposures is well prepared for the changes upcoming.
Can you give us a sense of your total LTACH figure that I think is disclosed in your supplemental? What is in the U.S.? And I guess as a quick follow-up to that are LTACHs also on the block? Do you want to lighten your exposure there at all? Well from the last question first there is nothing in our portfolio that is not potentially on the block.
We certainly -- ideally what I would like to see is some sales in each one of the segments that we are in to show the overall value of all of it.
Not just -- are you asking for -- from the LTACHs exactly what our total exposure is? It represents about 8% of our exposure.
The U.S.
exposure.
Yes.
It represents about 8% of our portfolio.
All of the LTACHs are in the U.S.
Got you.
Okay.
And then if you could just give a little bit more color on the AXA Spain development.
What have you committed to date how much is the total spend the timing of when that asset comes online? Yes.
The total commitment is about $24 million $25 million.
The facility is probably a third complete at this point.
So the total construction should be completed in the next 12 to 18 months.
And those numbers Ed just gave are our portion of it our 50% portion.
So we expect to ultimately invest $24 million $25 million.
We put in about half of that as of now.
Got you.
And then to your point about the MEDIAN right of first refusal on the 750 is there a timeframe for that? It is three years.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Juan.
Your next question comes from the line of Chad Vanacore with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Chad.
Hey.
Since we are talking about Europe and the Spanish hospitals can you give us any update on the Italian JV venture that you have going? No we really can’t.
Since last quarter when we announced it and what we said was when we close we will be able to give some further details.
But we are just contractually prohibited from doing that until we do close.
Now we think closing is in the near term I would almost say eminent.
But sometimes the regulatory and bureaucratic processes in Europe are even worse than ours.
So I won’t say eminent but absent some surprises we think it is very near.
Okay.
And then what can you tell us about what the financing environment in Europe is like today versus six months ago? Well versus six months ago which puts us back around June there was no environment in Europe.
You will remember we were working through -- the world was working through Greece and the long-term debt markets in Europe were virtually shut down.
Subsequent to that and in August in early August we issued €500 million in seven-year bonds at a very attractive 4% rate.
Today if we were to need to which we have no plans to of course issue additional euro-denominated bonds it would probably be in that same neighborhood of between 3.75% and 4%.
All right.
Thanks Steve.
That’s really helpful.
Now on your Adeptus developments you have got $60 million coming online right now.
Can you remind us of the yield assumptions and you will be booking that $60 million -- or revenues on that $60 million now that they are developed fully right? That’s right.
As they come online obviously we start charging rent.
And those that are now coming online have GAAP yields in excess of 10%.
All right.
Thanks.
That’s all for me.
Thanks Chad.
The next question is a follow-up from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thanks for the extra time guys.
Just a quick question just given the volatility of in the capital markets and what we have seen with some of the public operators the hospital guys any changes in cap rates or valuations that you guys are seeing? Juan not much.
The bottom end has probably ticked up maybe 50 to 75 basis points.
But overall the spread is still fairly wide.
I would say that this time or six months ago maybe we were at a 7.5% to 11%.
Maybe we are now at an 8% plus to 11% still.
Okay.
And then just the last question do you guys have any interest in potentially getting involved in Forest Park in some of the assets that maybe becoming available there? No.
Any rationale as to why the lack of interest? Juan we looked at those before they were bought on the first go around and we still haven’t changed our opinions about them.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate the time.
Okay.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in queue I would now like to turn the conference over to Ed Aldag for closing remarks.
I want to thank you very much and thank all of you for listening in today.
As always if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call myself Steve Hamner Charles Lambert or Tim Berryman.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today’s conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Medical Properties Trust Fourth Quarter and Year End 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Mr.
Charles Lambert Managing Director.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Medical Properties Trust conference call to discuss our fourth quarter 2015 financial results.
With me today are Edward K.
Aldag Jr.
Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; and Steven Hamner Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our press release was distributed this morning and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If you did not receive a copy it is available on our Web site at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally we are hosting a live webcast of today’s call which you can access in that same section.
During the course of this call we will make projections and certain other statements that may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risk uncertainties and other factors that may cause our financial results and future events to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying such forward-looking statements.
We refer you to the Company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of the factors that could cause the Company’s actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in this call.
The information being provided today is as of this date only and except as required by federal securities laws the Company does not undertake a duty to update any such information.
In addition during the course of the conference call we will describe certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of comparable GAAP financial measures.
Please note that in our press release Medical Properties Trust has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements.
You can also refer to our Web site at www.medicalpropertiestrust.com for the most directly comparable financial measures and related reconciliations.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Ed Aldag.
Thank you Charles and thank all of you for listening in on our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call and for your interest in Medical Properties Trust.
Success is defined by Webster’s Dictionary as having a favourable or desired outcome.
2015 for Medical Properties Trust would have to be described as a tremendous operational success.
Our total revenue increased from $312 million to almost 442 million an increase of $130 million or 42%.
But revenue for growth sake is not enough.
Net income increased by 180% to approximately $140 million up from $50 million.
Normalized AFFO per share increased by almost 25% which allowed us to increase our dividend and still reduce our payout ratio.
For the fourth quarter that just ended our payout ratio was 63%.
On a same-store basis Q3 2014 trailing 12 month total portfolio EBITDAR coverage was 3.66 times.
Q3 2015 trailing 12 month total portfolio EBITDAR coverage grew to 3.75 times.
Acute care hospitals were flat at 4.5 times.
Our rehab hospitals grew a dramatic 49 basis points from 2.41 times to 2.9 times and our LTACHs grew at an impressive 13 basis points from 1.79 times to 1.92 times.
I noticed this morning in one of the early reports there is some confusion over our methodology of reporting coverages.
Just to remind you we report same-store on facilities that have been in our portfolio for 24 months.
So each quarter the same store coverages will be updated buckets.
Last quarter we reported acute care hospitals at 4.7 times.
Showing the exact same bucket of acute care hospitals this quarter we would have also reported a 4.7 times again flat as we previously said because this quarter we had the additional hospitals that have now been in our portfolio for 24 months.
The coverage for last quarter was reported at 4.5 times compared to this quarter of 4.5 times still flat.
There has been no operational deterioration in our acute care hospital portfolio.
Our hospitals have maintained their very strong coverage quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
In addition on a same-store basis admissions for our general acute care hospitals increased 1.6% year-over-year for the three month period ending in September.
Our rehab hospital admissions increased 5.2% and the LTACHs decreased 4.1%.
Just like our portfolio HCA’s most recent quarterly report on its financial performance further demonstrates that hospital sector the nation's healthcare industry produces financial returns that are growing and sustainable into the foreseeable future.
On a fully-funded basis at 12/31/14 our largest property represented 2.6% of our total portfolio.
Today our largest property represents 1.9% of our total portfolio.
At 12/31/14 our largest tenant represented 19% of our overall portfolio.
Today our largest tenant only represents a little more than 17%.
In the U.S.
general acute care hospital represents 67.5% of our total portfolio rehab hospitals 11.1 LTACH 9.6 and freestanding emergency rooms 7.7.
80% of our portfolio is within the United States with 17% in Germany and the remaining in Italy the UK and Spain.
Our portfolio is certainly one of the strongest portfolios in the REIT world.
Our coverages are at the top of the industry and our properties have a long history of exceeding expectations.
We have no near-term significant debt maturities other than the $125 million due later this year.
Our fixed charge coverage of 3.5 times is in line with many of our peers and other investment grade companies.
We currently have approximately 1.1 billion drawn on our revolver which comes due in late 2018.
We have always been long-term managers and we'll continue to be so.
As we have planned since late last summer we will permanently finance a large portion of the borrowings under the revolver and divest some properties and use the proceeds to pay down or off the revolver.
Permanent financing may include a $500 million bond issue since we announced last fall our desire to use some very selective property sales for this purpose we've had over 900 million of unsolicited offers for properties in all of our property sectors.
Over the last few months we've hired advisors to work with us to ensure that we maximize the value of any sales.
Clearly we do not intend to sell $1 billion of properties but we feel it is important for the market to understand what kind of interest we have had.
We expect the revolver to be paid down with permanent financing and property sales during the first half of 2016.
Even with the permanent financing and the selective property sales we expect FFO per share for 2016 to grow from its 2015 level.
Steve will go over this in more detail with you in just a few moments.
Again we want to emphasize the strength of our overall portfolio and the strong position this company is in with regard to its balance sheet.
We continue to have tremendous opportunities.
We continue to see our existing customers flourish.
MPT’s portfolio has proven itself since our IPO in 2005 and it continues to outperform the market.
We are well positioned for the future and we look forward to the next 10 years.
Steve? Thank you Ed.
This morning we reported normalized FFO for the fourth quarter of $0.35 per diluted share a 25% year-over-year increase.
Our year-to-date results of $1.26 per share represent a 19% increase over full year 2014 results.
We will discuss our future expectations momentarily but I do want to highlight that our per share FFO growth is expected to continue into 2016 and beyond.
Even if we assume only very limited investment in 2016 along with asset sales we believe calendar year 2016 normalized FFO will increase to further 4% to 5%.
I'm not going to read what you've already seen in the earnings release from this morning.
So let me point out a couple of items that will help you better understand our reported results.
Number one the only difference between so called white paper FFO and our normalized FFO is the $4.3 million in acquisition cost.
The great majority of which is related to transfer taxes and other costs paid as we had closed the sale lease back transactions of the MEDIAN acquisition.
Included in both measures of FFO is share-based compensation which had averaged about $0.05 per share annually.
When share awards are granted even 100% performance based and multi-year awards generally accepted accounting principles requires us to expense the value of those awards as expensed.
Even if the performance hurdles are not achieved and no shares ultimately are awarded companies are prohibited from reversing that expense in subsequent years.
For 2015 because total shareholder return was negative MPT management permanently forfeited 100% of the value of the three year award that was granted in 2013.
This resulted in a reduction in compensation of more than $6 million that had been recognized over the three years ended December 2015.
Aside from wanting to demonstrate the rigorous and direct pay for performance philosophy behind our compensation plan it is also important to point out that the GAAP reporting for compensation does not mean that management continues to be rewarded for underperformance.
It is just the opposite in fact as it should be and as it is.
However even given the full GAAP amount of share-based compensation our G&amp;A continues to decline as a percentage of assets and revenue demonstrated how we have scaled the business with limited incremental overhead.
As we continue to grow over the long-term we will continue to benefit from the scalability.
Since the end of the third quarter after completing the Capella transactions we have made limited investments in the aggregate totalling about $150 million.
These investments included a previously announced $35 million hospital for Capella.
The $96 million funding of the Italian joint venture with AXA and the $20 million rehabilitation hospital for MEDIAN.
As of the end of the year we had limited firm commitments totalling $65 million to complete the development of Adeptus facilities which will be extended over the next three quarters and approximately $45 million for acquisitions for other tenants which are not certain to occur.
Our supplemental package which was posted to our Web site this morning provides further details on our current portfolio metric.
We will happy to take questions about the portfolio in just a few minutes.
Our outstanding debt as of December 31 is also scheduled in the supplemental package.
As of today our borrowings under the revolving credit facility remain $1.1 billion.
Our near-term plan is to reduce this balance by up to about $500 million with proceeds from long-term permanent financing and we are monitoring conditions in the credit markets on a daily basis and intend to be in a position to launch such an offering when market conditions are favorable.
As Ed mentioned earlier we also have a $900 million plus pool of assets that have already attracted interest from perspective purchases.
The proceeds of any of these sales would also be available to reduce the revolver balance.
During the first half of this year we expect to substantially reduce the revolver borrowings with proceeds from permanent financing and with the luxury of having time to maximize sale proceeds along with limited and selective new investments we believe we will be able to make substantial further reductions in the revolver balance during 2016.
A very important additional benefit to this would be the improvement of our leverage metrics.
Based slowly on our targeted property sales we expect that as of completion of the sales our net debt will not exceed six times our resulting annual EBITDA.
With room for further reduction through additional sales or market improvements we have always managed our investments our capital and our overall balance sheet for the long-term.
When market conditions as they and inevitably will become disconnected from underlying fundamentals we have designed our capital and operating structures to provide us plenty of time to wisely execute long-term strategies that are not destructive to long-term shareholder value.
So in today's disconnected global conditions we have only $125 million of debt maturing in late 2016.
A side from the 2018 maturity of the revolver we have no major maturities until 2019 and they are very well laddered and thereafter.
Our bonding investment commitments are limited.
We have no capital expenditure obligations for our properties as our tenants are fully responsible for all maintenance repairs refurbishments and improvements between now and 2022 our average list maturity as a percentage of rent is less than 1% annually.
Our normalized FFO dividend payout ratio is less than 65% and expected to continue to improve based on the built in annual escalators in our leases.
This reflects substantial FFO in excess of dividend requirements which is also available for debt service and repayment.
And as we have discussed we have outstanding assets that sophisticated well capitalized long-term investors are attracted to.
All of these conditions which we have constantly designed into our business modelling good years and bad give us the ability to carefully consider and execute the best long-term capital and investment strategies for our shareholders.
It is a very good position to be in.
This morning we are implementing a new guidance methodology.
We will no longer estimate our operating results based on an animalization of our in place assets and capital structure.
Instead we will estimate a range of normalized FFO per share for the current calendar year based on our present intentions concerning the portfolio and capital and other transactions.
For calendar year 2016 we estimated normalized FFO per share will range between the $1.29 and the $1.33.
In perspective last quarter we estimated our run rate annualized results to range between a $1.28 and $1.32.
The major assumptions underlying our calendar 2016 estimate are as follows.
We expect to complete permanent financing for about $500 million and our present estimate is that that will be done during the first quarter.
We have limited commitments as we have already discussed to make new investments in hospital real estate.
And as Ed and I both have described already through the remainder of 2016 we expect to sell assets unused sale proceeds to reduce our revolver balance.
We estimate that our results will be on the lower end of the range if we raised permanent debt financing and/or wholesale assets sooner than our present expectations and of course the opposite is also true There are other factors that will affect our actual results including interest rates and other capital markets conditions pricing and amount of potential asset sales tenant operations and other unforeseen conditions.
And with that will be happy to take questions and I turn the call back to the operator.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Could you guys give us a sense of the asset sales I realized there has been some unsolicited interest and I am curious there relative to the package that you guys have actually put together to market for sale? Are those two separate tracks or potential areas for sales? Or how would you characterize your efforts to actually sale assets versus the unsolicited interest? Jordan it's pretty much all have being going all simultaneously most of it has been unsolicited offers as opposed to us getting out and marketing specific packages.
It is properties within all of our property types and it is a pretty significant gain on most of those potential gains on most of those properties.
Obviously it is just like acquisitions you don’t know exactly when all of them will happen.
And as I’ve previous said we certainly don’t want all of them to happen and so it's hard to give you an exact to which properties is it likely end up being at this point.
And can you discuss the nature of the potential investors? You mean like who are they? Yes the folks who have sort of solicited you directly or these as you said in the press release real estate healthcare investors.
I am just curious is it pension funds is it private equity all the above… It is all the above mostly domestic not that many pitching funds mostly opportunistic private equity funds and real estate funds.
And then as it relates to pricing is it too soon to tell there and/or maybe give us a sense of what’s being modeled within the guidance because obviously the range is reasonably narrow at this point with the initial guidance that’s been put out.
So I am just curious what we kind of layered in there? It's as I said earlier that most of the potential sales are with fairly significant gains there are some rather new acquisitions that have smaller gains built in.
But the number is pretty easy to figure out the arithmetic in our model.
We’ve got roughly 1.1 billion on our revolver.
We think we’ll do roughly 500 million in permanent financing which will be somewhere between 500 million and 600 million remaining on property sales if we were to pay it all.
And so it's all basically within the model here assumed that a midyear-ish convention in terms of timing? Yes.
Given the asset sales and the bond issuance? Well it's just that Steve pointed out we expect the permanent financing to be sometime in the first quarter.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Could you guys give us a sense in general what you’re expecting from a reimbursement perspective specifically for long-term acute care hospitals in 2016? We expect overall Tayo that the revenue for our LTACH operators will decline slightly.
We don’t expect significant decreases as you saw we actually had pretty good increases in the last quarter.
We do expect that there will be some decline in 2016 but we expect that most of our operators will actually end up doing better than they did in 2015.
Is the decline volume driven is it mix driven is it…? It's mostly mix driven it's mostly as they all adjust.
We expect that 2017 would be back on the in-plan that mostly this is an adjustment year.
And then just a quick sense in regards to some of your larger investments if you could kind of give us a general sense of how things are going with I know definitely it is going pretty well but if that’s so some of the German investments Ernest and also Capella? Tayo truly our portfolio is performing better to-date than it ever has.
All of our operators are performing exceptionally well.
The bigger acute care hospitals here in the U.S.
have been essentially flat which is good considering there’re extremely strong coverages.
Our German operator actually has increased and they continue to perform very well they continue to see opportunities in the German market.
And overall all of the portfolio even the LTACHs for the last quarter performed very well for us.
One last one from me the bond offering that you were expecting to do this year do you expect that to be more U.S.-based or you're going to do something you would denominate or a mix of both? No we expect that to be entirely U.S.-based.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Just ticking with time if I ask question on the bond offering what kind of duration are you looking for and do you have any range or potential costs that you're looking at in your model? Juan we yes while we want to go as long as we can I certainly think it'll be at least eight years we'd like to see 10 years our guide will be much longer than that.
But we certainly want to go as long we possibly can.
Pricing Juan and again as we mentioned we're in daily contact with the bankers and the other advisors and it's volatile as everybody on this call knows but we would expect around a low six handle rate again depending literally sometimes it depends on the time of day but that's our expectation.
And that's unsecured? Yes correct.
And then on the asset sales can you give us a sense of the range of CapEx or like a weighted number weighted average type cap rate you're modelling to come up with guidance? You are talking about what we’d be selling the properties for? Correct.
Let me give it to you in a slightly different way because it's a mix of properties but I think that where we are today based on the longer tenured properties that we've got in our portfolio that we've had interest in that we could have this much as a 20%-25%-30% gain.
But let me just point out because it goes back to an earlier question with respect to guidance and of course what we're guiding is normalized FFO per share and there would be very little impact on that particular metric whether we sell at a 7.5 or 8.5 cap rate and then clearly the proceeds would increase or decrease which would have an impact on the amount of debt outstandings but as a $6 billion company with the volume of sales that we expect whether the cap rate is 100 points more or less than somebody's midpoint and so it is going to have a very little impact on the $1.29 to $1.33 calendar year guidance.
And then for G&amp;A just curious if you can give us some color on kind of were you expecting any plans to open up European office or how should we think about management costs? I think they would stay along with where they are we don't have any expectations at this point for opening up a European office as I have said previously to that question I think that actually we probably slightly decreased our overall costs you would see it because it wouldn't be that much.
I think the synergies that we get right now from everybody walk the halls together it's much more valuable to us than the small savings that we would have by having the office directly in Europe.
It's easy to get to Europe from this part of the United States so we're very comfortable with where we are and we don’t see any significant increases in personnel at this point.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
With regard to the asset sales could you guys give us an idea of timing I mean should we think about a mid-year convention or you're close to near these transactions I guess in the first quarter? Yes Mike I think that the answer is to think about it in a mid-year convention is certainly the way we've modelled it.
It obviously is not all going to happen on the same day but we expect between now and the middle of the year that most of that will be taking care of.
And then are you focused on the real-estate sales or are you willing to sell from the zero investments in the half-year alone so are the investments in Ernest and Capella? It is everything it is all buckets of our portfolio.
And then are you willing to sell more than 500 million that was highlighted in the press release or do you guys just want to do 500 million right now then look at it again and maybe next year? Mike we're certainly opportunistic but our plan right now is that that 500 million is the right range.
And then Steve I guess with those $500 million of sales I mean where do you expect your leverage metric to connect to the trend towards are you still going to be well above your launch from target are you okay with that? No Mike -- if we did only the 500 million in property sales and we would be slightly below or right at 6 times EBITDA our long-term historical average has been closer to the 5.5 times and again taking a long-term view that's where we want to get back to we think that's generally the right place to operate the company at least under the current market conditions and regulatory and operational issues as we evaluate our risk in our assets.
So we do expect to see that continue to trend down even after the call it the initial priming of the pump so to speak by selling assets and getting us into that 6.0 times which by the way puts us very right in the middle of where the peer group would be not withstanding again our view is to carefully continue to manage it down.
And Mike obviously as we pointed that earlier that's with very strong coverages.
And then how are you guys looking at the investments markets right now with the volatility in the capital markets then your current leverage position.
Are you willing to do the relationship deals right now are you looking to another things how should we think about that? If I understand your question are you talking about our potential acquisitions out there? Exactly.
Yes.
Right now we are only focused on our existing customers and we are being very selective we certainly don’t want to be in a position where our leverage is increasing we don’t want to be in a position where our leverage is staying the same as we pointed on this call it is our intent to decrease it at the same time taking care of our customers as best we can.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil DeFelice with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Last year's dividend raise came slightly as per the Q4 results were reported given where current yield is and a conservative payout ratio you’re wondering what your target current payout ratio is on a FFO and FAB basis? And then how you are thinking about the dividend in light of your capital position and currently in these expected asset sales? Phil it's certainly something that the Board discusses it every single meeting as I've pointed out earlier our payout ratio in the fourth quarter was 63% that's obviously below our historical target but these are very interesting times we certainly see what the stock market has done today as an overall whole has done since the beginning of the year as an overall as certainly don’t think that the board would think that a raise in a dividend rate today would be beneficial to anyone.
I think that where our coverage's are today where our dividend is today is something that's you already look forward to in the near future.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Fleming with SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Just a quick question on the divestitures that you are talking about that 500 million that's the expected price as of the book value would be 25% below that our there are some number below that? Some number below that yes.
Okay.
Just want to make sure I had those numbers right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Great thanks.
Just wanted to revisit the couple of things to make sure I am headed down the right way.
So on the debt side you talked about rate being in the low sixes is the timing there mid-year as well or is the timing in the first quarter? Yes.
Now we expect that any bond issue that we would do would be in the first quarter.
And dispositions I know you said modelled mid-year but you think they are going to close before that so is anything [Multiple Speakers]? Mike obviously they won't all happen at the same time.
I think that the spread out between the first quarter and midyear would be the right modelling.
Got it but your guidance assumes midyear? Correct.
Okay got it.
And then Steve not to completely try to back you into a corner here but when you throw out 7.5 to 8.5 for cap rate range is that a reasonable assumption that these folks could turn the models for dispositions? Yes.
I used those numbers consciously.
Got it okay.
Just two more in terms of capital commitments when you talked about just remaining capital commitments that's embedded in guidance does that include was it the 65 or is that in 45 for relationship acquisitions is that what the numbers were and is that embedded in guidance? Yes yes and yes.
Okay got it.
And last question Steve I know you talk about no CapEx commitments.
Just I think curiously in the right year structures where you own a stake in an operator like Capella is it structured so even though you own the operations that the other partner is on the hook for all the CapEx is that how that works? Well that is how it works and of course on an operating company like that you expect you hope you underwrite so that there won't be additional requirements for operating capital? But all of the normal maintenance CapEx and everything is on the hook by the other? Yes yes absolutely yes.
Okay that was it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
So yes just a quick follow-up.
Since you are talking about meaningful gains of some of the assets sales you would be thinking about a special dividend or not? Well Tayo there are a lot of ways to deal without including rolling into new properties and timing special dividend none of which is that we've made any determination about.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any final remarks.
Thank you operator and again thank all of you for your interest.
So if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call Tim Berryman Charles Lambert or Steve or myself.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.