Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to our conference call to present Motorola Solutions' first quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown President and Chief Executive Officer of Motorola Solutions; Ed Fitzpatrick Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Moon Senior Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our first quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
We have posted an accompanying earnings presentation and press release in motorolasolutions.com/investor and I encourage you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
I will now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us today.
I'd like to start by saying that I'm very pleased with our first quarter results as we delivered excellent revenue growth with improved profitability and cash flow.
Highlights for the quarter included sustained global demand across all regions improved operating earnings disciplined expense management and important examples that demonstrate our purpose which is to help customers be their best in the moments that matter.
This morning Motorola Solutions reported sales in the first quarter of $1.9 billion an increase of 8% from Q1 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $1.06 per share from continued operations compared to $0.29 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations which exclude intangible amortization stock compensation and highlighted items were $0.54 per share a 64% increase from $0.33 per share in Q1 of last year.
Our Government segment posted sales growth of 5% with improved operating margins demonstrating continued resiliency and demand for our public safety solutions.
In the Enterprise segment sales increased 14% from last year with higher operating margins as we saw robust demand for our solutions from customers across all the major geographies we serve.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Ed Fitzpatrick to discuss our financial results as well as reporting changes.
I'll then return to discuss operational highlights and provide a little additional color on the business.
Ed? Thanks Greg.
Before I review the financial performance let me briefly highlight some changes we made to our reporting.
On April 14 we filed an 8-K with updated financial information for Motorola Solutions' historical GAAP and non-GAAP financial results presented in 2 product segments: Government and Enterprise.
Our Government segment includes our two-way radio business and our public safety systems business.
The Enterprise segment includes enterprise mobile computing scanning devices wireless broadband systems RFID data capture solutions and our iDEN infrastructure business.
This new segment format provides further details and insight into our sales and operating earnings performance.
In addition the 8-K includes pro forma cash flow statements for 2008 through 2010.
Now on to our financial results for the quarter.
Sales for the quarter grew 8% year-over-year driven by Enterprise business strength continued resiliency in Government and growth in all regions.
Sales growth continued in our Government business with first quarter sales of $1.2 billion an increase of 5% from the prior year.
Enterprise sales demonstrated sustained momentum as the segment grew 14% to $695 million driven by robust demand in EMEA and stronger-than-expected demand for iDEN.
Although iDEN sales increased in Q1 compared to last year we still expect a full year decline for this business.
On a GAAP basis earnings from continuing operations net of taxes were $365 million and EPS was $1.06 per share.
Non-GAAP earnings were $0.54 per share compared to $0.33 per share a year ago.
For the rest of this call we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
Gross margin percentage in the quarter was 50.3% up from 49.3% in the same quarter last year.
The increase in gross margin was due to favorable product mix in both segments.
Operating expenses of $681 million were roughly flat in absolute dollar terms compared to the year-ago quarter.
We continue to focus on expense management and executing our previously disclosed plan to reduce G&amp;A costs while making the necessary investments in R&amp;D and go-to-market capabilities.
We are on target for removing separation-related G&amp;A overhang cost by the end of Q2.
Our operating earnings for the first quarter were $267 million or 14.2% of sales compared to $175 million or 10.1% in Q1 2010.
This 53% increase in operating earnings was driven by increased sales and gross margin coupled with flat operating expenses which demonstrates the operating leverage of our P&amp;L.
Total other income and expense was a net income of $3 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $11 million in Q1 2010.
The positive result in this line item was driven by investment and foreign currency gains as well as lower interest expense due to adjustments in tax-related and other interest accruals.
These net benefits favorably impacted Q1 by approximately $35 million or $0.11 per share relative to our outlook we shared with you last quarter.
We expect this line to return to a net expense of approximately $30 million to $40 million in future quarters.
Our effective tax rate was 33.7% for the quarter and we still expect the tax rate for the year in the range of 35% to 37%.
However as we've shared with you before our cash tax rate is expected to be 20% for the next 7 years as we utilize over $1 billion of available tax credits.
We generated $231 million in cash flow from operations and $204 million in free cash flow.
We also generated approximately $217 million in operating cash flow from discontinued operations related to the Networks business in Q1.
From a working capital perspective the accounts receivables days were essentially flat to Q4.
Inventory turns decreased sequentially from 8.7x to 7.2x which is attributable in part to lower seasonal sales in Q1.
We are focused on managing and continuing to improve our working capital over time particularly inventory turns.
We ended the quarter with $6.2 billion in cash and investments and $2.7 billion in debt.
Our cash balance is now 35% in the U.S.
compared to 31% after separation an increase driven primarily by repatriation activities.
We will continue working towards our goal of a greater than 40% U.S.
cash balance by year end.
Turning now to our Q2 outlook.
We expect sales growth of 4% to 5% over the second quarter 2010.
This factors in the impact of approximately $15 million in reduced sales from the modules business we divested this quarter lower iDEN revenue and potential supply chain disruptions in Japan.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP earnings of $0.46 to $0.51 per share from continuing operations.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q2 2010 of $0.37 per share.
Consistent with prior quarters this outlook excludes expenses for stock-based compensation and intangible amortization of approximately $0.18 per share and items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
The company now expects full year revenue growth to track towards 4% to 4.5%.
This reflects growth of 5.5% to 6% offset by a decline in our iDEN business and $45 million of reduced revenues from the modules business we divested this quarter.
With this growth we now expect operating earnings in the range of 16% to 16.5% of sales.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for segment highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
In Government our sales for the quarter were $1.2 billion up 5% over Q1 of 2010.
We saw healthy growth in all regions except for EMEA where continued challenges in Western Europe offset demand in other parts of the region.
Our profitability also improved with operating earnings representing 11.7% of sales this quarter compared to 8.7% in Q1 of last year.
This increase in operating earnings was driven by higher gross margins due to favorable product mix and a continued focus on operating expense management to drive further operating leverage.
Although the general funding environment remains challenging in the U.S.
there's some signs of improvement as tax receipts continue to increase and approach 2008 levels.
In addition our customers continue to prioritize their public safety communication needs and we remain focused on helping them find ways to fund system upgrades improve interoperability and meet spectrum narrowbanding requirements.
Examples of key wins that demonstrate our solutions to meet these needs include: a $14 million award in Cortland County New York to enable numerous public safety agencies to communicate and improve coverage; a $16 million regional system with East Bay Regional Communications to serve the San Francisco Bay Area; a $10 million award in Brown County Wisconsin to implement an ASTRO 25 system that will improve interoperability and enable more efficient use of spectrum; and finally in Pennsylvania we won a $31 million award to upgrade Berks County from a conventional system to the benefits of ASTRO 25 trunking.
We announced plans to begin shipping our ASTRO 25 systems with P25 Phase 2 TDMA trunking later this year.
This is part of our standards-compliant next-generation public safety portfolio that is transforming public safety operations and strengthening the mission-critical communications core.
Nearly a dozen customers have already contracted with us to deliver P25 TDMA functionality.
In TETRA we secured multi-million dollar projects with Airwave in the United Kingdom and with a Chevron affiliate in Kazakhstan to service one of the largest oilfields in the world.
In Latin America we won new multi-million dollar projects for ASTRO 25 radio systems with public safety agencies in Colombia and the civil police in Sao Paulo Brazil.
Our innovation continues to earn recognition from our customers and industry as well.
This year we earned prestigious red dot awards for the designs of our industry-leading APX Portable radios and our Mission Critical Wireless Earpiece.
And American COP Magazine recently featured our solutions for in-car digital video mobile workstations and the APX integrated radio control head.
With respect to our next-generation public safety initiatives during the quarter we announced with Verizon Wireless a first-of-its-kind solution that combines a standards-based public safety broadband network tailored for mission-critical operations with the benefits of a leading public commercial broadband LTE network.
As a result of this alliance public safety agencies will benefit from economies of scale site sharing optimized network design and an open standards-based approach.
The alliance allows agencies to supplement their mission-critical core platforms with the rich media services and the increased capacity and coverage of Verizon Wireless' public LTE network.
With bills now in the House and Senate in support of our first responder customers position there is optimism about prioritization of the 700 MHz D block to public safety which would efficiently and effectively double the spectrum available for a public safety-grade broadband data network.
We've been investing in R&amp;D for next-generation public safety for over 2 years and our expertise in both public and private networks makes us uniquely qualified to deliver standards-based LTE solutions to our public safety customers.
Moving to the Enterprise business.
Sales in our Enterprise segment were $695 million an increase of 14% from Q1 of 2010.
Operating earnings expanded to 18.4% of sales up from 12.7% last year with robust EMEA demand and improved contribution from iDEN.
Excluding iDEN Enterprise operating margins still increased and were consistent with our Government segment.
Retail the largest vertical segment we serve in Enterprise continues to invest in technology to empower workers and generate sales growth.
In January we released the latest results of our annual retail study which indicated 55% of retailers cited shoppers as better connected to information than their own store associates.
When shoppers received guidance from a retail associate equipped with a handheld mobile computer over 43% reported that the device improved the overall shopping experience.
The return on investment on our retail solutions is further supported by research that suggests nearly 1/3 of retail store visits ended with an average of $132 unspent because of out-of-stock items limited store associate assistance and long checkout lines.
An example of how retailers are investing in technology to respond to these trends is a $24 million award that we recently received from a large U.S.
big box retailer to deploy in-store wireless infrastructure mobile applications and security.
Another area of growth in Enterprise is among our transportation and logistics customers.
We announced the $20 million mobile computing solution with General Logistics Systems in Germany and another award with Correos in Spain both to further enable world-class logistics and package delivery.
Additionally we will continue to grow our Enterprise services portfolio with mobile security and network management solutions.
During the quarter we expanded our scale of these offerings with additional large retailers and financial institutions.
The RFID Journal recently recognized Motorola Solutions as the best-known brand in the RFID industry.
Our RFID solutions enable businesses to advance to new levels of efficiency with realtime asset management and ensuring that the right product is on the shelf and available for the customer at the right time.
Furthering our leadership in RFID we recently introduced a contactless mobile computer based on our premier MC75 Enterprise mobile computing platform which now features high-frequency RFID and near-field communications.
Now turning to a total regional view for the company.
Our sales grew in all 4 geographic regions over the same quarter a year ago.
North America grew in mid-single digits while EMEA grew in high single digits fueled by continued strength in Enterprise mobile computing.
Asia continues to grow with favorable economic trends and expanding infrastructure for transportation public safety utilities and health care.
Latin America's performance is in part attributable to growth in iDEN investments in infrastructure adoption of Enterprise mobile computing and demand for radio communications systems.
From a go-to-market perspective we hosted a channel partner kickoff event in every region with 5 000 attendees representing our top worldwide partners for sales and product training.
Our Motorola Solutions' PartnerEmpower channel which spans both Government and Enterprise was also awarded a 5-star rating in CRN magazine's 2011 Partner Program Guide which recognizes outstanding partnership opportunities and support.
We saw examples this past quarter where our equipment and employees delivered in moments that mattered.
Following the 6.3 magnitude earthquake in Christchurch the second largest city in New Zealand we contributed to rescue and recovery by sending wireless broadband gear 250 TETRA mission-critical radios and other types of support.
Our technicians on the scene worked with emergency services personnel to ensure systems were configured for full communications capability and integrated seamlessly with local emergency networks.
In response to the catastrophic earthquake and tsunami in Japan we donated over 1 300 radios and other equipment to assist with rescue and recovery.
Our employees in Japan are safe and have returned to work and we will continue to support our partners in Japan during this rebuilding effort.
I'm proud of the responses from our employees worldwide including their personal donations in our Motorola Solutions Foundation contributions exceeding $0.5 million of disaster relief for both Japan and New Zealand.
We continue to refine our overall portfolio to strengthen our focus on mission-critical communications solutions for public safety and enterprise.
With this focus in Q1 we divested of our modules business and we also sold a production facility in Israel.
Several weeks ago we announced an amended agreement with Nokia Siemens for the sale of our Networks business for $975 million in cash plus $150 million in retained accounts receivables.
We expect net cash proceeds of $1 billion after taxes accounts receivable collections assignment fees and other transaction fees and expenses.
A significant amount of the net proceeds will be received in the U.S.
In addition our discontinued operations from the Networks business generated approximately $217 million in operating cash flow during Q1.
We received regulatory approval in China on April 20.
And with all other remaining closing conditions satisfied we are scheduled to close this transaction with NSN tomorrow.
This will represent another significant accomplishment toward optimizing our capital structure and we will provide greater clarity on our capital allocation decisions within the next 90 days.
Overall our Q1 results were an outstanding start to the year and we're well positioned for continued success with a strong balance sheet a commitment to innovation and exceptional customers and employees.
Shep? Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator please instruct our callers on how to ask a question.
Certainly.
The floor is now open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Avi Silver with CLSA.
I guess just given the magnitude of the top line and operating margin beat can you walk us through what factors led you to exceed expectations in the quarter? Were there any major mix benefits there? And I guess in the context of your guidance can you talk about why EPS should decline sequentially with revenue increasing 7% quarter-over-quarter? I can't recall margins ever being down in Q2 for solutions or for the former EMS business.
So Avi first of all thanks.
in Q1 the strong exceeding in the expectations over $0.32 a share to $0.54 $0.11 of that were from the operating dimensions of the business.
And $0.11 of that were below the line.
So when you look at it quite frankly we just had stronger volume and a favorable mix.
iDEN was up.
We didn't expect it to be up in Q1 on the infrastructure side.
And quite frankly we were more aggressive in exceeding some of the expense reduction targets than we had originally forecasted.
So net-net overall demand was strong in all 4 regions.
Mix was favorable.
iDEN was a positive surprise driven by international expansion and we were more successful reducing costs than we had originally thought as we committed to get these costs out of the business in the first half.
We also had some favorable foreign exchange.
So think of it as $0.11 from the business and $0.11 below the line.
And on the below-the-line items we don't expect those items to recur.
And that's why I've said "hey we expect that line to be an expense going forward in the $30 million to $40 million range." We did have some favorability on gains in investments and businesses.
As Greg mentioned the modules business we sold that business.
We also had some other investment gains and some tax-related interest favorability won some favorable rulings in international locations on taxes.
So all those that favorability $0.11 per share won't recur.
So that's why you see somewhat of an anomaly Q1 to Q2.
If you take those unusual items out you will see that we are growing and we are improving the earnings per share from the operations of the business.
And Avi just to -- a couple of points on the Q2 guidance.
So we're guiding revenue growth of 4% to 5%.
When you normalize for the divestiture of the modules business and you incorporate the way we believe iDEN will perform vis-à-vis a decline that 4% to 5% revenue growth looks closer to 6% from the core operating dimensions of the business.
We guided $0.46 to $0.51 earnings per share.
That's up nicely over Q2 of last year of $0.37 a share.
So we're still getting very strong EPS expansion and we're growing the top line well.
And remember also Q2 of last year was a 12% quarter in revenue growth.
It was actually I think the beginnings of the turnaround of the economic recovery.
So it's off of a very high comp from the year-over-year quarter.
That should help you dimensionalize the thinking around how we are moving forward.
Great.
We'll go next to Jeff Fidacaro with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Greg I was wondering if you can address on the Government side the sales up 5%.
A bit better than we thought.
And can you talk about the outlook for the rest of the year? And then if you could even break it down between the North America and Europe I noticed North America you're saying it was up mid-single in total and Europe was up high single digits.
Could you sort of talk about that as respect to the Government side? So we were really pleased Jeff with the Q1 performance of 5% growth in Government.
We've continually mentioned the fact that not all government spending is equal.
And I think what the quarter demonstrates is the prioritization that agencies across the globe continue to put in terms of the prioritization of mission-critical communications.
Maybe to talk a little bit about the growth in North America and other regions I'll let Mark Moon comment as well who obviously runs worldwide sales and field operations for the firm.
Thank Greg.
So as Greg commented earlier we did grow Government in every region with the exception of Western Europe.
And in most of the other parts of Europe Government grew as well.
So I think that was to be expected.
What wasn't expected necessarily even though we have constantly continued to be bullish on Government growth in North America was that it would be as strong as it was.
North America grew 6% in the first quarter and as we look out through the end of the year which was your question we believe that growth will continue to remain similar to what we guided early on in the 4% to 6% range.
So we see Government growth continuing to be strong.
Quite honestly we think it's very strong in the Middle East and Africa with some big opportunities.
It's very strong in Asia and we hope that Western Europe will also recover as we go through the year.
So we're expecting good growth and similar to the guidance we gave early in Government as we go forward.
And we continue to see peaks in the Enterprise growth which is complementing that.
LLLP</strong> And just a quick follow-up.
So on that side too you do have long lead times in that visibility correct? As far as contracts and bids.
We've got a little bit of both when you think about it.
I mean we've got good visibility to the funnel and the contracts we're working.
We've got good backlog.
When you look at the makeup of our backlog the majority of that backlog is in the Government space.
And once you've got these large contracts then that again stems out not necessarily lumpy but over an extended period of time.
So because of our market position and because of where we are and what's going on we feel really good about the comments that I'm making as far as projections for the rest of the year.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Thornton with Avian Securities.
LLC</strong> Greg I don't know if you mentioned this but what was backlog for the quarter? Were we up sequentially and year-on-year? So backlog.
Well I didn't mention it in the prepared remarks.
But it's flat to ever so slightly down which we were actually pleased with in combination with pruning 8% revenue growth in Q1.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And that's on a sequential basis or a year-on-year basis? Both.
It's actually -- it's like 1% 1.5% both sequentially and year-over-year.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
Perfect.
And then could you just quantify -- you guys talked about the modules business that you sold in the quarter.
Is that material? Can you quantify what the revenue run rate was there? Revenue run rate was $60 million a year.
LLC</strong> $60 million a year.
Okay perfect.
And then the cost reduction so it looks like you guys were a little bit ahead of plan of eliminating that $150 million.
Where are we on that? Is that completely removed? Or are we halfway through that? And any sense as to what's left there? I think we've made really nice progress.
We also talked last quarter that we really started this in the fourth quarter.
So I think we're right on track.
We had a little bit of favorability as Greg mentioned in the quarter.
But we still expect the full year to be in and around taking out the $150 million that we had talked about.
LLC</strong> Okay terrific.
And one last question if I could.
On the NSN transaction it's set to close tomorrow.
The transaction price was renegotiated from $1.2 billion down to $975 million but it looks like the structure and the assets are the same.
Can you walk us through what the change was and what the rationale for the price change was? Yes.
So first of all it gave us greater certainty around closing.
We also received concessions as part of that amended price.
And we have the benefits of the earnings in cash for the first 4 months of this year.
For the first quarter it equates to additional cash flow of $217 million.
That was not originally contemplated when we struck the deal and assumed it would close by 12/31.
So we have always been assuming approximately $1 billion plus or minus net of tax and that's what we will achieve tomorrow when we close the deal.
So we're thrilled with that transaction.
LLC</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Great.
Perfect.
And we'll take our next question from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> One more question on your Government business.
I'm very impressed by the regions of the business.
And based on your comments you have reasonably good visibility on the regions for the rest of the year.
My question would be how would you assess any risk on that front of further Government spending cuts further budget reviews that would put at risk this outlook I don't know on a 6 to 18 months horizon? So I would say this Pierre.
As we mentioned Government was good and pretty strong across all regions with the exception of Western Europe where we thought it would be down.
So we'll continue I think to see a challenging Government environment in Western Europe.
But that said with the backlog and the visibility we feel reasonably comfortable that it can continue to grow in the other geographies.
In addition the Obama administration if we move toward the U.S.
has solidified with Congress a 2011 budget.
At the end of the day when we look at the 2011 budget on the margins it doesn't look like it disrupts or materially contracts any available grant money here in the U.S.
So we look at the U.S.
grant and federal funding environment as generally constant in '11 which is favorable.
And of course there's some other things that are driving continued Government spending.
There's a narrowband mandate here in the U.S.
where new radios sold after the end of 2012 have to have a certain technical requirement that that will allow for and continue to incent public safety agencies to refresh and upgrade radios to those new narrowbanding-compliant subscriber devices over the next 18 months.
So generally speaking we're always looking at it closely.
And in the U.S.
certainly it dominates the headlines around the deficits at the state level.
But our experience at least historically and again demonstrated in Q1 is that not all Government spending is equal.
And public safety mission-critical communications interoperability and adding technology like video surveillance or other types of solutions that will augment and help pressure on headcount in public safety continues put us in a favorable position.
So we've incorporated all this thinking into the Q2 guidance and the full year and we'll continue to stay diligent and watch it closely.
Inc.</strong> And what about Europe? Where do you see the situation stabilizing there or improving? Or do you think there is a risk of further cuts in budget and the situation deteriorating? I think the situation in Europe is mixed when we describe what we call our European region because it's Europe Middle East &amp; Africa.
Obviously spending in the Middle East and Africa is pretty strong and we're working on a number of very large opportunities there.
Western Europe is where we have been seeing constriction but there are some catalysts for spending like preparing for the Olympics other things that are coming.
And we're seeing as we mentioned this contract with Airwave which was directly related to those kinds of things.
We also had been declining in Western Europe for the past four quarters which we predicted all along.
I think now we're getting to a point where we were also coming off some higher comparables which made the decline there.
As we go forward I think it'll stabilize in Western Europe.
I don't expect strong growth but we'll get our growth out of the other regions.
And then the other regions of the world I expect to continue to grow at the consistent pace that we've outlined previously.
So again kind of reiterating we feel really good about the outlook that we've provided.
And we'll go next to the side of Tavis McCourt with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Kind of a big picture question.
We're hearing a lot of -- I shouldn't say a lot but some activity of Android operating system handsets getting into applications like U.S.
Army and supply chain.
And what I'm wondering is in kind of the break up between your business and Sanjay's is it a pretty clean split in terms of opportunities that you're able to go after that are clearly rugged? Or is the split based on operating system? And kind of talk about your ability to just shift operating systems from Windows CE to Android if it comes to that.
And then Ed just a couple of financial details.
The DSOs you put up this quarter and the cash conversion cycle how should we think about that longer term? Is this a good representative quarter? Or does it get better from here or worse from here? And then the final financial question is on the balance sheet there's about $2.8 billion of deferred tax assets.
Are there any allowances on that? Or is that a clean number? So Tavis on the separation of MSI and MMI yes I think it's pretty clean.
The Mobility group has responsibility for consumer devices which at this point to date on the Smart phone side Sanjay has been Android-centric.
On the Enterprise side which is our purview we have been Windows-centric Windows Mobile now Windows handheld.
We stay in close touch with Microsoft.
I've talked to Ballmer just a few weeks ago and we are continuing to stay very closely aligned to ensure that we are working together proactively on the Windows road map and how it evolves whether it's Win Phone 7 or Windows 8 and the implications to our Enterprise customers.
We have as you know Tavis exclusive use of the brand in the Enterprise and Government side or military side that you referenced.
But at the end of the day there's nothing that limits our ability to either adopt Android or another operating system.
And over time over the next several years I think that you see the development of what's called HTML 5 which will lessen the importance of the OS on the individual device and allow the manageability and apps ecosystem to be written agnostic of whatever whether it's Microsoft or Android on the device.
The fact of the matter is we are Microsoft-centric today.
There is nothing that limits our ability to go Android.
We may choose to do that on certain specialty devices either for the Enterprise or perhaps in a battlefield or public safety application.
But we continue to work that and that's being worked in Holtsville New York with the device group with our mobile computing group led by Girish Rishi.
But there's definitely opportunity there.
Tavis on the working capital front yes we do expect to improve as we go throughout the year.
First quarter typically is our lowest quarter.
I would say just given the way that the math works we will improve over time as we get more flow through on the cost of goods sold line on inventory.
But on top of that I think we still have some operating improvements to make particularly in inventory with our sales and operations planning process.
As we also implement an ERP a single-instance ERP over the next year or so we're in the process of doing that.
We'll get better information from the start from the sales force all the way through operations and distributions.
So we will improve on the working capital throughout the year.
The second part of your question related to deferred tax assets and valuation allowances.
We do have about $250 million of valuation allowances remaining on the $2-plus billion of overall tax assets that we have.
And that really relates to the foreign operations that we have on a global basis.
And we'll take our next question from Peter Misek with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just a question to follow up on the cash flow.
Your cash generation looked pretty solid even with some working capital puts and takes.
As you look out through the year I think your cash generation should be pretty solid.
Can you walk us through what your plans are for returning cash or uses of cash sort of for the rest of the year? That would be really helpful.
Sure.
I think your question really kind of alludes to the capital allocation question that we've got and that we've given you some feedback in the past.
So let me first outline for you what we have said in the past and kind of where we're going to go from here.
We've talked about executing on 4 things: One completing the separation which we've now done.
The second item is obtaining solid investment grade at all the rating agencies.
We've gotten that from 2 of the 3 rating agencies.
We do hopefully expect to get that near-term third agency bumping us up to solid investment grade.
The third thing is closing the Networks transaction which we now expect to be imminent hopefully will close tomorrow.
The fourth item was driving cash repatriation to the U.S.
getting to that balance as I talked about earlier greater than 40% by the time we exit the year.
We've also talked about paying down -- we are committed to paying down the $600 million of debt that comes due in November of this year.
So we will do that.
In the meantime as we've been trying to execute all of these things we have gotten very close to completing the initial phase of our capital allocation framework incorporating our forecasts future forecasts as you talked about cash flows benchmark data that's out there and investor feedback that we've heard over the past quarter or two.
With all of that said we'll plan to come back to you in the next 90 days with our capital allocation decisions as Greg mentioned on the call earlier.
Inc.</strong> Perfect.
If I can ask a follow-up question in your prepared remarks your mentioned the federal LTE network.
Can you walk us through any thoughts you have as to timing of some of these large network builds and sort of how you plan for that? I mean it looks like it would be a pretty serious network resource drag or network resource issue to manage.
It may take up a lot of your capacity.
Can you just walk us through how you think about that and when the potential timing could be? So we've been investing Peter in the LTE public safety both infrastructure and device initiatives for over 2 years.
And we've been doing that obviously with no financial return to date.
We don't expect LTE public safety to be a material contributor at all in 2011 either.
We have 2 awards San Francisco BayRICS and Harris County Texas.
We're working closely with both of those customers and would expect to start to deploy some of the resources and the systems associated with the implementation milestones in Q4.
I wouldn't call it a drag on resources.
I'd call it a redeployment that we've anticipated and planned for both financially and operationally.
It's in the product group under Bob Schassler.
And we've redeployed R&amp;D resources within our cost structure and we've put a high priority on it.
I think public safety LTE is the biggest opportunity we have in Motorola Solutions looking out for the next 3 or 4 years.
We've talked about that there's $1 billion-plus in the funnel that we work.
We have to win it but it's out there.
We've also sized this opportunity incrementally to the core business of about $3 billion to $5 billion over the next five years.
So Mark Moon is working on the go-to-market sales organization and necessary partnerships which we referenced with Verizon Wireless.
And we're pretty excited about it.
And I want to emphasize that it kind of brings -- it capitalizes on our expertise in public safety and it also will bring the benefits to the public safety agencies of an open standards approach.
So with that comes economies of scale.
With the agreement with Verizon Wireless comes a substantial amount of site sharing which I know politically and regulatorily is targeted in Washington D.C.
They want an open standards approach.
They want the benefits of public/private.
You want to capitalize on the existing infrastructure that's been spent on public safety and we want to improve the interoperability.
This opportunity is incremental to our voice narrowband public safety business and we feel pretty good about it.
Yes the only clarification -- I think you made a comment about the federal network buildout.
And I think is there's a lot of discussion around what happens.
Today the plan is to really let this be a buildup of a lot of local systems if you will Greg described too that we're undertaking today so that the ultimate concept would be a network of networks.
Clearly focused exactly on what Greg highlighted and what Washington wants to ensure is that we make sure we keep interoperability and everything is standards-based to allow that to happen and to allow these network of networks to look like an overall nationwide network.
And we're committed to stand behind both of those things as we go forward and as Greg said "Excited about that opportunity as we move forward." And we'll go next to Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of questions.
One was how big was iDEN this quarter? You said it was larger than you thought.
So we don't break out the individual quarter.
But to reference you back to what we said in the financial analyst meeting it was $400 million approximately $400 million last year.
And we thought it would be down to approximately $300 million in '11.
It was stronger -- it actually grew Hudi [ph] in Q1 but we still expect to decline structurally overall from the business.
It grew quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
Yes I think that's right.
Yes it is right.
It grew both sequentially and year-over-year.
And it was driven internationally by Nextel International adding subscribers.
We actually expected Hudi [ph] the first quarter to be roughly flat and then the decline to happen second quarter through fourth.
So just more color.
Now when you say you expected it to be $300 million this year is this -- when you say now it's going to be down it's going to be greater than $300 million? Probably yes.
Okay.
If I normalize the operating margin of Enterprise to the 11.7% operating margin of Government it looks like there was an additional $46 million of operating income you got out of the extra iDEN or at least out of iDEN.
Plus a base -- I can get somewhere in the 50s $50 million $55 million of operating income coming out of iDEN.
If you did $100 million $120 million $130 million in revenue I mean that's like 50% margin.
Is that the right way to look at it? We're not going to get to that level of detail in that business.
As we talked about this is the business that will be declining over time and becoming less a piece of the portfolio.
We did have some favorable results of that business which helped the results.
But overall the growth in the business really is what drove the improved results.
iDEN did help a bit because it was actually up and we plan it to be flat during the quarter.
But we're not going to get to that level of detail.
Yes and Hudi [ph] let me make sure that I didn't drive past your question.
When you said you expect it to be greater than $300 million I answered yes.
We don't think the decline -- it will decline but probably not as significantly as we talked about in Q4.
So it will be up a little higher than $300 million but still structurally declining.
I wanted to make sure we didn't talk past each other.
Say Hudi [ph] I'll just add one other thing.
As you look at our results and the results of the Enterprise business we talked about that the iDEN business is a mature business.
The R&amp;D investment of that is really more sustaining as opposed to a lot of new product introductions if you will.
So that business is a bit more profitable than the other business.
Without the impact of iDEN the Enterprise business and its profitability when you look at it compared to Government is roughly comparable.
For the quarter and I'll tell you for the full year as we said before in prior meetings we expect it to be roughly comparable.
When you back out iDEN the profitability of the Enterprise business should be roughly comparable to the Government business when you look at OE.
It may be different quarter-to-quarter but overall you should think it about being comparable.
Okay that makes sense.
I was going to go in there just wanted to make sure I was right on that.
Western Europe that seems to be a problem.
Two things: one is how large is Western Europe's? Can you help us quantify what that looks like in your Government side? And two is the problem essentially governments that clearly don't have enough money to spend and are grappling with their own budgets? Or is there a competition issue there with TETRA? So Western Europe Government is challenging.
Western Europe Enterprise is strong.
The challenges in Western Europe Government are structural austerity and funding not competition.
So I mean I think competition's been constant.
I don't think there's been a material change one way or another.
So it's more Hudi [ph] just the headwinds that they have and the challenges in many of the countries there economically and the deficits that they're battling back from.
Okay.
Can you help us quantify how large Western Europe is for you on the Government side? So obviously we don't talk to that level of detail.
But let me give you some color around what we've said in the past.
If you'd think about your overall EMEA being roughly 22% or so of our business the business in EMEA different than in the other parts of the world is relatively similar.
Worldwide we've talked about being 65% Government 35% Enterprise.
In Europe it's roughly 50-50.
Within that Europe the business in Western Europe versus the rest of Europe is also roughly 50-50.
So all of a sudden is you break this down to about a quarter.
That size of Western Europe is probably 6% 7% of our overall business.
And again it's only flat to slightly down.
So we're talking about it but in the scheme of things not really a big impact that we can't overcome.
Obviously I wish Western Europe Government was growing as well as everywhere else but I don't see this as a big impact.
But as you narrow it down to just that Government.
And as Greg pointed out Western Europe Enterprise is growing and has been growing much faster than expected.
No that makes a lot of sense and it was very helpful to quantify it.
Last thing you talked about a favorable product mix.
Ed I think you've mentioned that.
Was that on both sides the Enterprise and the Government? And can you tell us what products did better? Which ones didn't do better? And what impact that had on margins? And if you can relate that to next quarter do you expect those same pieces to do well next quarter? You think it's going to revert? So I'll give you a couple points of detail.
They both did improve year-over-year.
I'd say the Government improved a bit more.
And I'd say the Government probably a bit better on the mix than on the Enterprise side.
So a better improvement I think year-over-year in the Government.
I won't get into the color.
It can fluctuate as we've talked about before by as much as 1% quarter-to-quarter.
We think it's stayed relatively stable.
Year-over-year we did have a nice improvement given the volume uptick some favorability for sure in the throughput at the factory.
So some favorability there.
But mix probably really drove more of that.
I'd expect it to be relatively stable in this range.
We talked about margins be about 50%.
That's the way I would think about it going forward.
And what is that mix? When you say it's favorable what products did better and which ones did worse? I don't think we need to go to that level of detail.
Because as I said it's not going to be something that you can trend going forward.
It will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
As you think about it you should think about approximately 50% modeling as you go forward.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thanks Hudi [ph].
And we'll go next to Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
So guys we could expect some type of decision around dividend your dividend policy over the next 90 days or so I guess is one of the things you're saying.
And then the second question is what percent of your business -- your minuses [ph] is book versus ship on a given quarter? And then finally in terms of North American Government what percent of it is federal versus state and local? So I'll take the first one and then I'll kick it to Mark to talk about the federal state local mix.
As Ed appropriately walked through the framework for our thinking around capital allocation and as we've said before I mean we totally understand that there's opportunities with the balance sheet given our total cash and our net cash position.
We have pretty much satisfied the majority of the requirements that we were thinking about as we transitioned to the independent company.
We made progress on our percentage of U.S.
cash up from 31% to now 35% of our total cash in the U.S.
So we'll continue along the repatriation lines and look to increase that percentage.
And as we've signaled before we plan to pay down the $600 million debt note in November.
Having said all that there will be opportunities.
We want to make sure that we continue to stay engaged with the rating agencies that we've talked to over the last 18 months kind of giving them the milestones and signposts along the way up to separation and what we would do through separation.
And then yes within the next 90 days we're going to give you some specificity around our thoughts and decisions around capital allocation.
So I think we're in a good position.
We acknowledge the opportunity is clearly there to return capital to the shareholders.
And we've transitioned along the time line we've outlined and I think it's going pretty well.
So as regards to the Government business in North America I think we've indicated in the past that it's about 58% of our total Government business.
And of that about 8% of that is federal.
The remaining would be state and local and some level of commercial sales of those Government products.
But so federal is a relatively smaller piece today of the overall North American Government market.
And then in terms of your turns versus booked business in the quarter given quarter.
Right.
So I think we talked -- Greg actually at the last call talked a little bit through that.
When we go into a quarter we go in with backlog visibility somewhere around 30% to 40%.
And then if you think about our businesses things like service things like our personal communication radios those things are fairly -- and it's fairly run rate that hits our Government.
So very predictable.
Then we come down to the business that you're really trying to get to a quick turn kind of orders that we need to capture and ship in that same quarter.
What we've said in the past is that goal gets usually about 20% of our number.
We'll take our next question from Jim Suva with Citi.
Can you help me and investors bridge the news of the Government budget and hiring challenges? Meaning budgets are under pressure but politicians really don't want to cut public safety and have a big backlash on their hands from the community.
But yet we are seeing that the police and fire forces instead of laying off employees a lot of them are seeing lower enrollment in coming classes versus the retiring outgoing.
So net less individuals in the various public services for the fire police and different forces.
Will there be a lagging headwind at some point in the future from headcount reductions? Or does the systems implementation sizes trump this headwind? Or how can we think about bridging what we're seeing and hearing in the news everyday in your very strong results? I think that's a very good question and one that we get asked often times by investors.
And the reality is we have been in a continuation over the last year to 18 months of reductions in headcount of public safety officers policemen firefighters.
At the same time as we've continued to show you we continue to grow our business in the Government.
We've had lots of conversations about that.
In reality I think it's tied to a couple of pieces.
First public safety.
Even though we may be reducing headcount I used the comment that one of the largest major city chiefs said -- that said "Even though we're being asked to do more with less we've actually got to be better with less because there is no less expectation of the services we have to deliver to the citizens.
So we've got to go invest in technology so we make the officers or firefighters that we have today more efficient and effective." So back to ROI moving from the Enterprise space into Government that's really happening.
So we've continued to sell more and more technology into this piece to kind of augment the question that you asked around headcount reductions.
The other piece which I think is easy to say "Okay there is a policeman or a firefighter.
And for every one of those there's one radio." And fortunately for us in North America that's true.
And most of them are Motorola radios.
But that's not really just the essence of what we do.
When you think beyond today we're really providing solutions.
So there is computer-aided dispatch in what we call our integrated command center.
There is other systems to actually manage and articulate data so you improve situational awareness.
There's network components there's video components.
As we mentioned broadband LTE.
So it's much more than just thinking about "Do I equate the number of radios to the number of officers? And does that help me kind of forecast this business?" So I think again it's a challenge.
I would certainly like to not see those numbers going down.
But actually it plays to something that makes us be able to leverage how the tools that we have make them more effective in those situations.
And as a follow-up to that and then I'll be finished is when we look at that shift do you think that shift is more budgetary the reduced headcount? Or is it just structurally? Because now in technology you have the ability to provide more services with less given technology.
What I'm wondering is just structurally should we just build in that we should anticipate employee numbers just gradually being under pressure and going down over time because the infrastructure and the ability to do more with less continues to rise? I think it's strictly budgetary.
I mean all the police chiefs the fire chiefs the mayors the governors that I have time to spend time with would prefer to number one increase productivity through technology but also leverage more public service folks.
No one is taking these reductions as "this is something we would like to do." I think it is a necessity to do because of budgets.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
And we'll take our final question from Deepak Sitaraman with Credit Suisse.
Greg and Mark first just a clarification on the revised outlook.
It sounds like your new guidance for the full year is based on a slightly better outlook for Enterprise and an unchanged outlook for Government.
Could you maybe give us a little bit of color on the product or service areas or geographies or even customer verticals within the core Enterprise business that are driving the slightly better outlook? And then I have a quick follow-up for Ed as well.
So I think that the improved outlook for the full year is because we are cautiously optimistic looking forward and we had a very strong Q1.
Deepak we do think that the Enterprise business has been fantastic.
And that's even against -- that's these growth numbers against pretty high comps of last year as well.
The retail vertical has been very strong.
It's a leading anchor tenant vertical for us to begin with that positioned us with the acquisition with Symbol.
But Mark and I were just with customers earlier this week and a number of big box retailers a number of home improvement customers -- there's a very favorable efficiency and return on investment characteristics of particularly Enterprise mobile computing and the deployment of wireless infrastructure that's favorable to us.
The demand in Europe has been really strong and continues to be that.
And we believe that between the backlog and the funnel of opportunities and the current customer engagement that between that and the resiliency and consistency of Government spending allows us to be able to modestly increase the full year.
And by the way I do want to say thanks too and I appreciate the kind words from many of you on the team.
But our 23 000-strong associates worldwide have done a phenomenal job.
The go-to-market team the product folks the supply chain organization could not be more proud.
We've launched this business independently.
We've been waiting for this a long time to come out of the gate strong and demonstrate the visibility and the uniqueness of what we believe to be Motorola Solutions' characteristics.
And it's a great start.
Okay and I think the only thing I would just add to that as we talked about on the call as well we did expect iDEN to be down and we've talked about it being down but not quite as much.
So that's also helping as well in the guidance that we've given you.
Good point.
Okay that helps.
And Ed if I could just a follow-up on margins.
Based on your and Greg's comments earlier about margins and the Government business being roughly -- I guess Government and Enterprise x iDEN being roughly comparable.
First of all it appears that the margin profile for the Government segment is lower than I think what we were previously thinking.
Is this a function of how you're classifying certain costs? Or is this where it's always been? And then secondly besides revenue growth how should we think about the levels for margin expansion in the Government business? So on the margins let me clarify a couple things.
We talked about the margins being comparable when you back out iDEN for Enterprise and Government.
Remember we guided full year operating earnings in the 16% to 16.5%.
And we guided that for the full year we expected both businesses to be roughly in that space when you back out iDEN.
So looking -- as you kind of look at our guidance for the full year you could probably model it.
You start out at a lower point and we will expect the businesses to ramp from Q1 as we get into Q4 which we expect to be our biggest business.
The margins will ramp really more based upon that as we expect gross margins to be roughly in the range that we talked about in the 50% range.
As the sales grow that will flow through to the bottom.
We'll get the operating earnings to ramp up such that for the full year we'll get in the 16% to 16.5% range.
Spending will be flat maybe to down slightly as we go throughout the year right? You have merits but will offset that with the cost reductions that we had talked about with the overhang.
So maybe the numbers that you're seeing on Government are a bit lower than you've seen in the past because remember we had to reflect the impact of overhang in prior periods and we're now getting those costs out Q4 as I talked about last year Q1 and Q2 of this year.
So part of that ramp will happen because of the costs being taken out.
The other part will happen because of the top line growth.
I'll let Mark or Greg talk about the second part you had a question on was Government versus Enterprise growth and how that -- maybe I answered it with my question.
Yes and I just think that we've said that you can think of this as Government growing in composite kind of low- to mid-single digits and the Enterprise as very high single digits.
So you take those 2 meld them together to get the consolidated outlook.
And as we continue to take cost out of the business we're left with a pretty good operating leverage P&amp;L.
So as we can continue get top line growth there should be good flow-through given the cost structure.
And in short summary you kind of answered it Deepak yourself.
I mean I think we feel even more confident.
I know I got a lot of questions when I said I was confident before about Government.
More confident than ever on what we said about Government early on.
And Enterprise in North America and Europe in particular has shown stronger growth.
So you're right we're just holding mostly Government where we've always said but Enterprise looks to be even stronger.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
All right thanks.
I want to remind everyone the details outline highlighted items are GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our motorolasolutions.com investor relations site.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on this site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
During this call we have made a number forward-looking statements with the meaning of applicable federal securities law.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: the timing and planned sale of our Networks business; future strategic plans potential cost reductions; the availability of Government grants and other funding and guidance for Motorola Solutions; earnings per share; future sales growth by segment by region; future tax rate and cash tax rate; operating earnings; operating margins; profitability; expected cash position and repatriation; and return of capital to shareholders; and demand trends for Motorola Solutions businesses and products.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 12 through 25 and Item 1A of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Motorola Solutions' other SEC filings.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions' Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions' Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to our conference call to present Motorola Solutions' second quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Motorola Solutions; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our second quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
We have posted an accompanying earnings presentation and press release in motorolasolutions.com/investor and I encourage you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep and good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'm very pleased with our second quarter results as we delivered strong revenue growth with increased profitability.
Highlights for the quarter included better-than-expected Enterprise growth across major product lines solid performance in our Government business continued operating leverage and numerous examples that illustrate our ability to deliver solutions to our customers to help them be their best in the moments that matter.
This morning Motorola Solutions reported sales in the second quarter of $2.1 billion an increase of 6% from Q2 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.17 per share from continuing operations compared to $0.01 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.57 per share compared to $0.37 per share in Q2 a 54% increase.
Our Government segment posted sales growth of 4% as our public safety customers continue to choose our solutions to help them achieve their mission-critical needs.
We also saw improved operating earnings excluding highlighted items in this segment versus the year-ago quarter.
In our Enterprise segment operating earnings also improved and sales increased 11% from the year-ago quarter marking another quarter of excellent growth across enterprise mobile computing advanced data capture and our wireless LAN businesses.
Last quarter we indicated that we would provide greater clarity on capital allocation within 90 days.
This morning we made 2 very important announcements along these lines.
First I'm pleased to share with you that the Board of Directors has approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 a share with the first dividend payable October 14 to shareholders of record on September 15.
Second our board has approved the share repurchase program of $2 billion through the end of 2012.
These announcements reflect the confidence we have in both our strategy and growth opportunities while providing a meaningful return of capital to our shareholders.
As announced yesterday I'm also delighted to welcome Ken Dahlberg to our Board of Directors.
Ken was formerly Chairman and CEO of SAIC a $10 billion engineering and technology applications company.
He has leadership experience working with government and enterprise customers while at SAIC as well as a number of other senior executive roles in a few other Fortune 200 companies.
We look forward to the addition of Ken and the wealth of knowledge and business expertise that he brings to the table.
I'll now turn it over to Ed Fitzpatrick to discuss our financial results as well as additional perspective on capital allocation.
I'll then return to discuss the operational highlights and provide additional perspective on our business.
Thanks Greg.
Sales for the quarter grew 6% year-over-year driven by strong demand in Enterprise continued growth in Government and better-than-expected growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Revenue growth continued in our Government business with second quarter sales of $1.3 billion an increase of 4% from the prior year.
The Enterprise business delivered another excellent quarter as its sales grew 11% to $747 million driven by very positive demand in EMEA as well as strength in our Asia region.
On a GAAP basis earnings from continuing operations net of taxes were $58 million and EPS was $0.17 per share.
These GAAP results include the impact of a net charge for legal matters for $48 million or $0.08 per share and costs associated with the retirement of $540 million of debt and a quarter-end expense of $81 million or $0.14 per share.
Non-GAAP earnings were $0.57 per share compared to $0.37 per share a year ago.
For the rest of this call we refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
Operating expenses of 35.5% represent a 110 basis point decline from the year-ago quarter.
We also achieved our previously stated target of removing separation-related G&amp;A overhang costs to the first half of this year.
With our increased sales growth outlook for the full year we expect operating expenses in the second half to be consistent with our Q2 run rate which reflects an improvement on a percentage of sales basis as we become more efficient continue to drive operating leverage.
Our operating earnings for the second quarter were $315 million or 15.3% of sales compared to $267 million or 13.8% in Q2 2010.
This 18% increase in operating earnings on 6% sales growth was driven by increased sales and gross margin while holding operating expenses in check.
We're extremely pleased with this demonstrated leverage as operating earnings grew at 3x revenue this quarter.
Total other income expense for the net expense of $16 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $63 million in Q2 2010.
The year-over-year difference is related to interest expense debt retirement costs investment impairments and the impact of foreign currency.
Interest income was relatively flat to last year although it benefited this quarter from certain onetime gains.
After adjusting for the $540 million debt retirement we expect this Other Income and Expense line to be a net expense of approximately $20 million to $30 million in future quarters.
Our effective tax rate was 33.8% for the quarter and we now expect a tax rate for the full year in the range of 34% to 36%.
However as we shared with you before our average cash tax rate is expected to be roughly 20% for the next 7 years as we utilize available tax credits.
Cash flow from operations was $102 million this quarter which was in line with our expectations.
Historically Q2 cash flow was impacted by annual incentive payouts.
On a year-to-date basis cash flow has improved significantly compared to last year and we expect strong cash flow generation for the remainder of the year.
From a working capital perspective accounts receivable days were comparable with Q1.
Inventory turns improved sequentially from 7.2x to 7.8 which is attributable to higher seasonal sales in Q2 and improved inventory management.
Working capital management will remain a priority for us as we expect to continue to drive improvement in this area over time.
We ended the quarter with $6.7 billion in cash and investments and $2.2 billion in debt.
Our cash balance is now 47% in the U.S.
compared to 35% at the end of Q1.
This improvement was driven by repatriation activities as well as the composition of proceeds from the sale of the Networks business partially offset by the $650 million used to retire debt.
Turning now to our Q3 outlook.
We expect sales growth of 7% to 8% over the third quarter 2010.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.56 to $0.61 from continuing operations.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q3 2010 of $0.55 per share.
Consistent with prior quarters this outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.17 per share and items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
The company now expects full year revenue growth of 5.5% to 6% an increase from our previous outlook of 4.5% to 5%.
In addition we expect operating earnings of approximately 16.5% which is the high end of our previous range of 16% to 16.5%.
Now I'd like the spend a moment on our announcements this morning regarding capital return and provide a long-term framework around our plans for capital allocation.
We have shared with you there have been a clear set of priorities and milestones that will enable us to reach this point.
In the first 6 months post-separation we have successfully accomplished a number of important goals.
Among these were the successful sale of the Networks business securing a solid investment-grade rating at all 3 rating agencies bringing down our adjusted leverage further demonstrated this quarter through retiring $540 million of debt and repatriating approximately $1 billion year-to-date of foreign cash to provide additional U.S.
liquidity.
With that as background I would now like to discuss the capital return announcement that Greg referenced earlier.
Today we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per share payable beginning in October.
We also announced that our board has authorized the share repurchase program of $2 billion through the end of 2012.
Now turning to our long-term capital allocation framework.
We think about capital allocations in terms of ongoing cash flow generation and capital requirements to support our current and future business needs.
As you could see on Slide 11 we believe it is appropriate to balance capital expenditures that support organic growth dividends that deliver recurring capital returns and share repurchases while maintaining strategic flexibility.
It's important that you know that capital allocation remains front and center of an area focus for us going forward.
I'll now turn the call over to Greg to discuss segment and business highlights for the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
In Government our sales for the quarter were $1.3 billion up 4% over Q2 2010.
Growth was solid in the Americas and strong in Asia.
Profitability for this segment also improved with operating earnings representing 13.3% of sales this quarter compared to 12.5% in Q2 of last year.
This increase in operating earnings was driven by higher gross margins and our ability to grow revenues faster than operating costs.
Our continued growth in Government demonstrates that public safety and mission critical communications remain a priority.
In ASTRO our market-leading P25 platform notable wins during the quarter included the city of Fort Worth for $39 million and Bucks County Pennsylvania for $37 million.
We were also awarded a contract with the Israeli National Police for $34 million and a multi-million dollar contract with several agencies of the U.S.
Department of Justice.
This past quarter we demonstrated our leadership in TETRA at the TETRA World Congress held in Budapest Hungary.
We showcased our comprehensive TETRA portfolio including mission critical radios intrinsically safe devices for hazardous environments and covert radios for surveillance operations.
We also celebrated reaching a milestone of 1.5 million TETRA radios shipped and our Dimetra IP 7.1 infrastructure with companion mobile radios was the first to earn a certificate for interoperability on TETRA Enhanced Data Services which is the mobile data standard that can be deployed in wide-area mission critical environments.
During the quarter we were awarded multi-million dollar TETRA contracts for the state of Lower Saxony Germany and Shenzhen police in support of the World University Games to be held in August.
Another factor that contributes to our Government sales growth is that our solutions enable greater efficiency and return on investment for public safety agencies.
And our solutions extend beyond voice communications.
For example our video solutions provide greater situational awareness and enable first responders to react with greater information.
In Freeport Texas the police department is installing video surveillance cameras with Motorola Solutions and ADT Security.
We expanded our service relationship with the city of Chicago to include network management solutions and video management with wireless components and cameras at the edge of the network.
These projects demonstrate how technology is used to help police become more efficient at a time when they're facing tighter budgets.
We talked about our leadership in mission critical voice although another important offering in our portfolio is integrated command and control which includes software that automates tasks like dispatching and records management.
During the quarter we announced new releases for our PremierOne software applications.
Newly available on a Microsoft platform this next generation system help cities and counties reduce their total IT administrative costs for record management.
The Sheriff's Office in Palm Beach Florida chose the new PremierOne solution for computer-aided dispatch and records management.
Motorola Solutions was selected based on its strength to deliver an integrated solution based on industry standard technology that will enhance information flow improve response times and increase responder and citizens' safety.
We continue to invest in public safety LTE and I'm very pleased to announce that we received an award for $56 million of an LTE broadband data system for the Mississippi Wireless Communications Commission.
In addition this past quarter we demonstrated our next generation public safety platform including  public safety LTE at The Philadelphia Police Academy with representatives from the public safety community in the region.
Attendees experienced the latest technology advancements in public safety LTE including dynamic prioritization and intelligent mobile video streaming real time operating in the Public Safety Spectrum Trust's 700MHz band.
We also continue to drive innovation in Government.
An example is the APX 7000XE P25 radio which recently won gold at the Industrial Society of America's 2011 International Design Excellence Awards.
Developed using feedback from firefighters from Miami to Malaysia this radio features an enhanced control top for gloved hands noise reduction software and a large display for at-a-glanced viewing and multi-band interoperability for better multi-agency collaboration.
Moving to our Enterprise segment.
Sales in the Enterprise were $747 million an increase of 11% from Q2 of 2010 driven by robust demand for solutions in EMEA and strength in Asia.
Operating earnings expanded to 18.9% of sales up from 16.2% last year.
Demand in the transportation and logistics vertical remain strong with couriers and logistics operators continuing to invest in technology for productivity improvements.
For example our longtime customer UPS recently awarded us a new contract for wearable terminals that provide advanced hands-free mobile computing.
Demand remains strong for our retail solutions across all regions especially EMEA.
One example of a mobile computing solution for retailers are MC17 which enables self-service for customers to scan items while they shop reduce checkout lines and provides consumers with a personalized shopping experience with targeted promotions that are unique to each shopper.
Another example is Macy's recent deployment of MC3190-Z as a part of a continued company-wide upgrade of mobile computing technology.
We also won major contracts in mobile computing with a leading Russian retailer a major supermarket in the Netherlands and 2 major retailers in France.
And finally our ruggedized handheld-computer portfolio was recognized by the Gartner Group with its only Strong Positive rating which distinguishes us as a provider of strategic products services and solutions.
Turning now to a total regional view for the company.
North America sales grew low-single digits and EMEA posted double-digit growth driven primarily by continued strength in the Enterprise.
Asia continues to grow solid double digits across Enterprise and Government.
A single-digit decline in Latin America was attributable to the iDEN decline that we anticipated.
However the core Enterprise and Government businesses in Latin America continue to grow.
In evaluating our future growth prospects we believe a strategic growth opportunity is expanding our services model around our core Enterprise and Government solutions.
Today we generate significant revenues from systems integration and support services with pockets of excellence in professional and advanced services.
So this quarter we announced the formation of a global services organization to focus our various services business and align groups across all regions.
The goal of this organization is to bring a global repeatable approach to our services delivery and accelerate growth increase customer intimacy and further differentiate us from the competition.
Several natural disasters in the U.S.
this past quarter provided examples of where our solutions are critical during moments that matter.
In the southern and midwestern U.S.
hundreds of tornadoes and strong storms swept through the area.
Motorola Solutions deployed teams to the affected areas to aid customers who are in need.
We delivered additional radios systems on wheels and backup generators to assist with communications and recovery efforts.
The deadly tornado in Joplin was one of the worst recorded in the United States.
The primary mission critical communications system in Joplin which was supplied by us stayed online and was available to support rescue operations.
We also provided additional radio equipment to support the more than 1 500 first responders from 4 different states that converged on the scene for disaster recovery assistance.
During the Texas wildfires numerous fire departments deployed 8 mobile command systems with Motorola Solutions equipment and MOTOBRIDGE software which enabled various jurisdictions on different frequencies to communicate with each other on-site.
Additionally the Motorola Solutions Foundation and our employees donated over $85 000 to the Red Cross to help thousands of citizens impacted by these disasters.
In closing our Q2 results demonstrated another solid quarter of growth and improved profitability.
I'm also pleased that we announced our next step along the way to return capital to shareholders and look forward to continued growth and innovation as we provide solutions to our Government and Enterprise customers.
Thanks Greg.
Before we begin taking questions we want to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many participants as possible.
Operator please instruct our callers on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Greg you mentioned in the Government space solid growth in North America.
Any specific programs or business activity that's helping you to continue to grow despite what remains a challenging backdrop for public spending? Nothing specific Craig.
I think it's just a general continued prioritization of mission critical public safety even in the U.S.
where there's headwinds and environmentally from an overall Government standpoint.
But as our customers look at the return on investment and the utilization of technology which could be beyond traditional radios to use as a workforce multiplier to make first responders more productive we continue to get the nod and we're pleased with that.
And any change in visibility in that space? I think it's pretty consistent and our backlog sequentially is approximately flat.
So between our performance and our visibility on backlog that has factored into the guidance we've given in Q3 and for the full year.
Okay.
And then as my follow-up in the Enterprise you noted strong growth in EMEA.
Most of the tech companies we're seeing struggle a bit with growth in that region.
So any color you can provide there in terms of some of the growth drivers? Again I think it revolves around what we do is pretty unique with mobile computing and scanning and barcoding.
So retailers transportation logistics are using it for productivity gains.
So as they look to be more efficient and productive they're looking to deploy our technology or expand it or upgrade it and we're very pleased.
It's exceeded my expectations the performance on the Enterprise for the past several quarters and we continue to see those trends.
Our next question comes from Tavis McCourt with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Greg I wonder if you could comment on the backlog in the Government business was that up or down? And then also you mentioned another win for private LTE I think you said Mississippi this quarter.
And what I'm wondering is to what degree are these early contract wins these customers betting on future federal reimbursement or is this coming out of kind of the existing public safety budget that they have already? So backlog was generally flat sequentially.
And in terms of the public safety LTE awards they are using the existing available what's called BTOP grants so in San Francisco BayRICS in Harris County and now with the state of Mississippi those are existing grants that have been filed for and extended and they're taking advantage of those available funds to pursue the buildout of LTE and we just -- we're pleased with announcing the Mississippi win in terms of an award just in the past week or 2.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up on that.
Are those existing grants that are available for all municipalities? Well there's a BTOP grant process so individual municipalities and states have to file for it and there's pending applications.
I think it's public information.
So If you looked under BTOP you would see I believe what's been filed for and what's pending.
So that's what we're selling into right now.
Our next question comes from Jeff Fidacaro with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Great.
Just as a follow-up on the LTE Greg can you talk a little bit about the pipeline you've seen in the past.
You talked about it being about $1 billion based on these BTOP awards and some visibility.
Can you talk about the change there and any updates? So the funnel remains $1 billion actually it's grown a little bit.
It's more than $1 billion.
And it's not just BTOP grants in the U.S.
It's -- we look at the funnel for public safety LTE and we're working on things in the United States.
But quite frankly there's significant opportunity in the Gulf States and the Middle East region and when you aggregate the collective opportunities in both those areas we exceed $1 billion of life cycle opportunity that we're still working and responding to.
LLLP</strong> And maybe just an update on the timing of -- you're seeing sort of a significant ramp in that funnel.
Is it still later 2012? Yes.
I think it's late 2012 and more revenue materiality actually in 2013.
But we continue to work the opportunities and we feel pretty good about the opportunity that's in front of us.
Our next question comes from Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of questions.
First of all just a clarification if you can give us a sense.
I'm assuming iDEN was down you made that comment Greg that Latin America iDEN was down.
Just want to make sure that iDEN was down.
Yes iDEN was down.
Okay.
In the guidance you've given for Q3 and clearly Q2 a lot of the strength came out of the Enterprise side and it sounds like EMEA with that particular courier vertical you're talking about.
When you look at your Q3 guidance which is about $100 million higher than what the Street had are you seeing the same strength in Enterprise or is that a mix of Enterprise and Government? And what are the drivers that lead you to I'm assuming there's some Government in there because it's a nice hefty number.
And then flowing that through to Q4 the implication of the full year guidance is that Q4 is pretty much in line with kind of what the Street had and I'm wondering if that was just kind of leading some extra -- some dry gunpowder? Or given the strength of Q3 and again if you can give us a little bit color of the composition why not move a little Q4? And of course I have a follow-up.
So our guidance -- I'll take the middle one first.
Our guidance actually Ehud represents strength in both.
Expected strength in both Government and Enterprise.
iDEN was down a double-digit decline which was expected and we signaled so there wasn't a surprise there.
In terms of the Q3 guidance of 7% to 8% it's a reflection of what we expect to be pretty good growth in both segments.
And for the full year we guided to 16.5% operating margin.
And as you can see 5.5% to 6% all in for the full year.
I take your point on Q4 but there's nothing more to comment on other than it's a byproduct of the residual left after we do Q3 and we'll continue to update you along the way.
Do you have visibility beyond one quarter? Or is that you just don't necessarily -- you will get there you will have better visibility.
Right now you don't necessarily know because the trajectory of Q2 and Q3 would suggest that Q4 should be up as well.
No I think we do have pretty good visibility primarily referenced by the consistency and backlog.
And when you think about the longer sales cycle of what we do there's a pretty high predictability forward-looking.
Now remember as Mark Moon has talked about and Ed as well we come into a quarter probably having to sell approximately and ship 20% to close out to be successful in that quarter so the visibility of approximately 80% is strong but all those ingredients are incorporated into what we're guiding.
And so Ehud just to add to what Greg had said obviously the growth is higher than what we had in prior quarters and we said it is in both.
And I'd say probably more so -- if you look at improvement and where the growth is coming from I'd say it's more Government than Enterprise.
Enterprise growth is staying strong.
I'd say the Government growth is a bit better than we had in prior quarters.
And then on the --I think Greg covered the forward-looking which is fine.
Great.
Can I squeeze one thing in about the dividend or should I...
Sure go ahead.
You're on a roll.
Okay.
The $0.22 dividend given your cash flow you can afford more.
I understand wanting to have a cash balance that might be higher than other people would like because you want to be able to fund things and have cash on hand.
But as far as ongoing you've got $1.5 billion in EBITDA your free cash flow before -- your operating cash flow before CapEx is $900 million to $1 billion a year.
You can afford more than $0.96 a year.
And why did you stop there? I'd say Ehud the way we look at it -- and that's one of the reasons we did a combination of things here both the dividend and the share repurchase.
The share purchase addresses more of the a the cash on hand and returning that to shareholders that we think is appropriate.
The dividend we look at really more as an ongoing item and look at that more as part of our ongoing cash flow how do we think about allocating that.
If you looked at the Slide 11 on the presentation that we went through we gave you a better framework for how we're thinking about that as a percentage of the total going forward.
And something in that range 1/3 or just less than 1/3 of our cash flow.
In a go-forward basis it makes a lot of sense to us and really lines us up I'd say with some other financial peers that we're looking at in the industry.
It seems about right.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
[Technical Difficulty] Jeff we are unable to hear you at this time.
Our next question comes from Jim Suva with Citi Investment Research.
When we look at the operating margins of 16.5% can you let us know have all the overhang cost reductions already been fully utilized? I mean those from the spinout and the breakup of Motorola Mobility and Motorola Solutions.
Or there's still a little bit more to come? And one would think that actually with higher sales and the way that things are progressing that actually 16.5% to be honest may be conservative.
Can you just kind of comment around what's going on there and should we actually expect to see some expansion as time progresses on that? So on the overhang cost I mentioned on the call that we did execute what we planned to do for the cost overhang and removing that.
There's some of that still based on timing we'll not fully realize this year and some of that will come in the next year but we feel pretty good about executing what we thought we were going to on removing those costs.
So the full year impact that we talked about approximately $150 million or so taken on the full year run rate we feel pretty good about that.
So the second part of the question could you repeat the second part? Yes just going forward I mean it seems like linearity of this quarter just reported wouldn't have a full quarter impact of those cost removals or the benefit.
And so it seems like maybe your operating margins of 16.5% -- what I'm really getting to is it seems like there's actually more room for expansion there.
Can you just comment on that? No I'd say we'd factored that in we factored in the full year impact of the savings and the impact of the second half and the guidance we've given you reflects that.
I think taking the operating earnings up from 16% to 16.5% to the 16.5% the high end of that range reflects those savings of getting fully baked in.
So I feel pretty good about that.
And as we said the full year impact as we move forward we've talked about a range of 16% to 18% on operating earnings we believe that the cost reductions we've taken this year will help us to continue to improve the operating earnings as we get into 2012 and beyond.
Yes and Jim I would just draw your attention to the fact that we are clearly demonstrating operating leverage in total but also in both the Government and Enterprise segments.
Operating expenses of 35.5% represent a 110 basis point decline from Q2 of 2010.
And you should think about OpEx dollars in the second half of this year that will be consistent with the Q2 run rate.
So as a percentage below gross margin as a percentage of costs they will continue to improve and we'll continue to drive leverage.
But 16.5% is what you should think about would be appropriate all in on the operating margin for the full year.
Our next question comes from Larry Harris with CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> I saw that the Enterprise business I believe is developing an Android-based device and I was wondering if you could discuss the strategy why you're doing Android.
Is it demand from customers? And could we expect eventually an equal number of Android in Windows-based devices? So Larry today we're 100% Microsoft on Windows Embedded Handheld operating system and Microsoft remains clearly our anchor tenant strategic partner.
I think it's timing that as we look to provide a ruggedized specific tablet in the industrial applications that we sell into whatever vertical it may be a version of Android will provide a little bit greater functionality than its side-by-side competitor with Windows Embedded Handheld.
You should not interpret because we anticipate having one Android tablet that we're going to move from Microsoft to Google.
Instead it's really a representation of the timing and the available software applications that can be extended into form factors that we need for industrial application.
Over time I think that we've spent a lot of time very closely with Microsoft and I would expect it to maintain a very close strategic relationship with them.
We probably offer both but make no mistake we're still very very dependent on Microsoft.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And a question on the D Block I guess there's an objective of getting some legislation through Congress by mid-September.
Obviously they've got a lot on their plate right now.
If it were to be delayed would it have an impact on the results for next year? So I remain pretty confident that additional spectrum will be made available for public safety.
You're right there's a lot of moving parts.
Washington is an interesting environment right now.
But we'll have to see what comes out of there specifically in terms of legislation and/or timing.
I wouldn't speculate on that beyond that.
Remember there's about 20-plus waivers in the 700MHz band for the PSST where we're working and there's existing BTOP grants per an earlier question that we continue to sell into.
So I still believe at the end of the day in one form or another additional spectrum will be extended to public safety sometime over the next several months and we'll see how it goes.
Our next question comes from Peter Misek with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a question regarding competitive dynamics.
When we spoke to a bunch of municipalities and states we noticed that there seemed to have been a rise in competitive dynamics particularly in the radio and government side.
Can you please walk us through how you think that's impacting your business pricing? And why do you lose if you do lose a large city or municipality? So I think the -- my view and I'll let Mark Moon comment on it I think the competitive dynamics for our business have remained relatively constant.
We continue to work small mid and large deals.
If we lose a deal there can be a variety of different reasons why.
Some of these large tenders are complex they have a prime contractor a subcontractor.
There's sometimes a substantial amount of nonpublic safety radio content or public safety equipment which with other cost of goods components and respective margins have to be balanced.
But I wouldn't suggest that there's a significant change in the competitive dynamics of our business over the last few quarters.
Yes Greg I would completely agree with that.
I think when we think about the breadth of our portfolio the competitors are very different when we're talking about Enterprise and Government and we're talking about regionally specific competitors.
But really the only change that we've seen as Greg just kind of alluded to would be on the mega projects or the large projects.
And entrants a little more of systems integrators other kinds of folks that are trying to offer a number of third parties as part of their solution.
But again to the point to date that has also happened in the past and we continue to compete that way.
We continue to compete very effectively.
And I think when we look at our ASPs and other things they continue to hold very very steady.
So we don't really see -- I mean obviously we're going to always watch for competition but I don't see a change in dynamics around that environment.
Inc.</strong> If I could offer or ask one quick follow-up.
Just in terms of China I guess struggle to see how to frame that opportunity or how to think of the runway there.
Is that a market where you can go to market independently? Do you have to partner? And how should we sort of frame the Chinese opportunity? Obviously a huge opportunity a lot of folks on public safety recently.
I would think that would a huge fertile ground for you.
Fortunately for the Motorola we've had a long reputation in China so we continue to have very good success in China.
And to the point that you just made it is strong growth.
And as Greg referenced and Ed referenced earlier about the growth in Asia Pacific region within that region we continue to have even stronger growth in China.
We would anticipate we would continue to do that.
We are able to do business as a stand-alone entity there.
But as we go forward we will continue to also look for partners to further grow that business there because as you know there is always a trend in China for localization so we will continue to adjust as necessary.
But right now our track record and when we look at the future is very strong in China.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Matt Thornton with Avian Securities.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess first Greg I think I heard you mention that iDEN was down year-on-year.
But can you give us any sense as to how that tracked sequentially or versus plan? And then Ed the $300 million payment to Motorola Mobility is that still expected? I mean can you remind us what the timing might be or what triggers that payment? On your first question iDEN was down about 20% sequentially and a little bit more than that about 22% year-over-year as expected and tracking to our plans for this year on what we thought it would yield.
And on the Motorola Mobility item as you know as we disclosed in the past the payments to Mobility relate to repatriation activities that we're able to complete.
And as you've seen -- we'll see in our Q as it's filed I think at some point near term here there is a payment that's due to them for the first tranche of that that we were able to repatriate.
And I won't comment on the future as it will relate to our success in getting some of that cash back from these international locations.
But those payments will start near term here.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then just one follow-up if I could Ed you talked about -- on maintaining that 2 to 2.5x debt-to-EBITDA ratio maintaining $1.5 billion to $2 billion in U.S.
cash.
Are those metrics or frameworks that we can continue to use indefinitely here or are they coming down? I would say that's our current goal to get to that range.
As you saw we did make nice progress this quarter with the deleveraging that took place the $540 million of debt.
So the 2% 2.5% is our current frame.
And I'd say on the cash side of it we're working to continue to mitigate that right.
What is the minimal cash to run the business and we're making good progress there.
And I'd say -- what I'll tell you is we'll update you on any change to that as we move forward.
And just to add on that and Ed and I have worked very closely on this.
But as you think about our company moving forward we remind you that we'll be paying down the $600 million of debt that comes due in November.
And as we think about the firm our company we think about it in comparison to multi-industry companies.
So we look at the multi-industry competitive peer group in terms of how we are expected to perform.
And in the context of a broader capital allocation framework we will continue to delever the $600 million.
We also have a reasonable pension obligation that we'll continue to fulfill and do the required funding.
But I think over time when you think about the net debt position of the multi-industry comps that we look at over time that's what I think we move toward.
So we were focused on the adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA in transition to delever the firm to solidify and maintain the investment-grade rating but forward-looking through the windshield we'll probably look more around net debt and migrate to where we are to a composition that's more in line with our multi-industry peers on that metric going forward.
And that will take some time.
Our next question comes from Richard Kramer with Arete Research.
Just following on from that since you mentioned the M&amp;A as one of the options for allocating capital.
Could you give us a sense of your thoughts on allocation between the Government and the Enterprise portions? You're already market leader in Government.
Maybe you could lay out whether any M&amp;A there would make sense or maybe even hurt your position? And your thoughts on the Enterprise space which I think seeing many of your peers right now is extremely volatile.
And then a quick one for Greg.
Are you seeing TETRA become more widely deployed in the U.S.
or North America generally? And if that happens is that going to cause a sort of step change in competitiveness in the North American market as you see it? So the answer to the second question is no.
We do not see TETRA being deployed on any scale in the U.S.
P25 is the standard that's been in the U.S.
defined for interoperable voice public safety for well over a decade.
It's adopted it's been widely adopted in local state federal -- all the federal agencies.
And so it's an existing standard that they buy into.
We have seen an instance where TETRA was considered and I actually think might have been awarded in a nonpublic safety example but that I do not see TETRA in North America in the public safety market.
In terms of acquisitions remember we believe and we had said before we do not have any significant gaps in the current portfolio.
We've spent a meaningful amount of time divesting the noncore businesses so we can get to this and strengthen this industry-leading franchise in both Government and Enterprise.
The common thread and there are many between Government and Enterprise is the high return on investment ruggedized customized specific that help us deliver these solutions in moments that matter whether it's a public safety moment that matter or in critical -- mission critical application for business.
We will look at opportunities.
We'll be very disciplined in our evaluation.
We have a specific return on invested capital threshold.
But obviously now our current prioritization is returning capital to shareholders but we'll always continue to scan any opportunities that may come forward.
Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up given all the noise in other parts of the industry about intellectual property and you obviously have a large patent portfolio which is maybe hard to deploy in public safety but might be more interesting for Enterprise.
Do you see opportunities for getting any sort of material levels of income from your royalties or your patent portfolio going forward? Or is that just going to remain as you've said before something that's a competitive differentiator but not a source of income? I think more of the latter.
It's a competitive differentiator but probably not a source of meaningful proactive income.
Remember we had a very extensive perpetual royalty-free cross with our colleagues at Motorola Mobility.
So with the 30-plus -- 30 000-plus patents and that were granted or pending we have a perpetual cross with all the IPR that was developed pre-separation -- actually up to a year after we spin Mobility.
So we feel we have an excellent solid and very large IPR defensive portfolio.
When you look at solutions we have 10 000 patent granted or pending.
And when you look at our core businesses around mobile computing RFID 802.11 WLAN mission critical public safety we feel very good about that positon.
But as you think about the financial contribution and operating leverage of our firm going forward.
I wouldn't be thinking about intellectual property as being some kind of new material revenue stream.
It's more going to be in line with the delivery of the traditional business that we've described.
We'll take our final question today from Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Greg and Ed can you maybe give us a sense of the portion of R&amp;D across both your segments that you spent on nonrevenue-generating projects? I would imagine there's a higher portion of that on the Government side.
But I'm just trying to gauge where there's perhaps more operating leverage in the model going forward? So we spent about $1 billion a year on R&amp;D.
We are very measured and disciplined in our portfolio management process in prioritizing R&amp;D spend against return on invested capital within both Government and Enterprise.
For every $1 billion of R&amp;D we're generating at least historically about $4 billion of gross margin so the leverage is very strong.
The only thing I would point you to in terms of where we spent a reasonable amount of R&amp;D with no return to date but it was a thoughtful and purposeful thing to do was public safety LTE.
So for the last 3 years we've been investing in infrastructure in core software applications in interoperable gateways and pushing on an expansion of our portfolio of LTE devices that per an earlier question we have virtually de minimis LTE revenue contribution to date in '11.
We don't expect it to be significant in 2012 either.
It will be more meaningful in 2013.
So that was R&amp;D that was purposely spent in advance of the multibillion-dollar opportunity that we see both in the States and in the Middle East but that's the thing that comes to mind to your question.
I think more broadly though if you're talking about how do we think about innovation versus supporting our current products we have a very specific target of a percentage of our R&amp;D that goes towards new product introductions.
So we won't get into that but I'd say it's a meaningful percentage of our R&amp;D going forward and the teams are pretty robust and rigorous about making sure that we're spending on new products as opposed to supporting old.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Just a quick follow-up if I may.
Now that the decision has been made with regard to capital allocation Greg perhaps can you just talk us through what else you may have considered when you were looking at the various options? Specifically how did you think about whether or not to lever up the balance sheet? And is that something that's still on the table for some point down the road? So we looked at all options on capital allocation took a very holistic and comprehensive approach.
Again we were -- we looked at our unique opportunity with excess cash and recognized that and have talked about that in the past.
And we also looked at our multi-industry financial peers as the comparative group to think about a framework by how we can productively return capital in the future.
Given where we are and we are still delevering and we'll pay down the $600 million of debt in November and we are still funding at the required level our pension we still have work to do in improving our adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA.
So that's really our prioritization at this point in time.
And we expect to do that and progress through the remainder of the year.
We'll update you next year.
But over time over time it is appropriate to think about us moving more toward a net debt position of our multi-industry peers but I think it's a very measured progression.
And Ed and I are in lockstep in terms of how we'll do this and when we'll do it.
And we're very pleased with the dividend the quarterly dividend the $2 billion share repurchase over the next 17 months and we'll keep you informed along the way.
But I think the top headline is that we have a strong franchise that generates meaningful operating cash and we'll deploy it in a very thoughtful way against the disciplined ROIC threshold.
Thank you.
This concludes the Q&amp;A session for today's conference.
I will now turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you.
I want to remind everyone of the details outlining highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our www.motorolasolutions.com/Investor Relations website.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on the site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
During this call we have made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics timing and ability to repurchase shares under the share repurchase program our ability to pay future dividends; our long-term framework for capital allocation; future sales growth by segment and region; earnings per share guidance future tax rates and cash tax rates; expectations for operating expenses operating earnings; operating margins; profitability; as well as the amount of other income and expense; expected cash position; repatriation; improvements on working capital management; demand trends for Motorola Solutions businesses and products; the growth opportunity for our services model; future strategic plans; the availability of government funding and spectrum for public safety.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from these stated in the forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 12 through 25 and Item 1-A of our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K on Page 46 and Item 1A of our first quarter quarterly report on Form 10-Q and Motorola Solutions' other SEC filings.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our conference call to present Motorola Solutions Third Quarter Results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our third quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
I would like to point out that the results Greg and Ed will highlight in their prepared remarks refer to continued operations and exclude our point-to-point Orthogon and point-to-multipoint Canopy business units which are now included in discontinued operations as a result of our previously announced sale of these business units during Q3.
We have posted an accompanying earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
In addition we have posted updated pro forma non-GAAP financials that reflect the recent move of Orthogon and Canopy to discontinued operations.
I encourage you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
I would like to now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Motorola Solutions delivered a great third quarter and our results were strong in almost every dimension that we measure.
In fact it was a record performance for a third quarter in sales operating earnings and operating margin.
Highlights for the quarter included growth in all regions continued strength in Enterprise better-than-expected Government growth improved operating leverage and significant return of capital to our shareholders.
This also marked another quarter of accomplishments that demonstrate our innovation and commitment to deliver the best mission-critical solutions to our public safety and enterprise customers.
This morning we reported sales in the third quarter of $2.1 billion an increase of 10% from Q3 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.45 per share from continuing operations compared to a $0.04 loss in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing ops were $0.65 per share compared to $0.54 per share in Q3 of last year a 20% increase.
Our Government business revenues increased 9% as we saw growth across all regions especially within Asia and Latin America as customers continued to deploy our public safety solutions.
Non-GAAP operating earnings in the Government business grew 27% due to the strength in sales and continued expense management.
In our Enterprise business sales increased 13% from the year-ago quarter as companies continued to deploy our products and solutions further into their organizations to improve productivity operational excellence and improve the customer experience.
Last quarter we emphasized the priority we placed on capital return.
During the quarter we returned $744 million in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and earlier this month made our initial dividend payment of $0.22 per share.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed to discuss our financial results then return to discuss operational highlights and provide additional thoughts on our business performance.
Thanks Greg.
As Greg mentioned our Q3 sales reflected across-the-board strength in all regions.
Along with strong revenue growth we had great profitability and operating margin performance while continuing appropriate level of investment in the business.
Revenue growth continued in our Government business with third quarter sales of $1.4 billion an increase of 9% from the prior year.
Enterprise business delivered another excellent quarter as the segment grew 13% to $726 million driven by strength in enterprise mobile computing and our wireless LAN portfolio.
In addition to our sales performance our total backlog in Q3 was up slightly from the prior quarter.
On a GAAP basis earnings from continuing operations net of taxes were $152 million and EPS was $0.45 per share.
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations were $0.65 per share compared to $0.54 a year ago.
Operating expenses were $708 million or 33.6% of revenue which represents a 240 basis point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
Operating expense dollars were roughly flat sequentially in line with the outlook we provided in our last call.
We expect Q4 operating expenses to be comparable to this past quarter.
Operating earnings for the third quarter were $358 million or 17% of sales compared to $289 million or 15.1% in Q3 2010.
This 24% increase in operating earnings was driven by the 10% increase in sales combined with disciplined operating expense management.
We are pleased with the leverage in our business as operating earnings increased over twice the rate of revenue growth during the fourth quarter.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $16 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $18 million in Q3 2010.
This quarter's results benefited from higher-than-expected investment gains.
However we continue to expect this other income expense line to be a net expense of approximately $20 million to $30 million in future quarters.
Our effective tax rate was 34.8% for the quarter and we now expect a tax rate for the full year in the range of 34% to 35%.
As we have previously stated our average cash tax rate is expected to be approximately 20% for the next 6 years as we utilize available tax credits.
Cash flow from operations was $477 million this quarter which were driven by solid operating earnings relatively stable working capital levels and reductions in our long-term receivables related to our former Networks business.
On a year-to-date basis we've generated approximately $300 million of operating cash flow and we expect another solid quarter of cash generation to close out the year.
We ended the quarter with $6.3 billion in cash and investments and $2.1 billion in debt.
We also returned $744 million in cash to our shareholders this quarter through our recently initiated stock repurchase program.
A repurchase of 18.4 million shares at an average price of $40.38 reduced shares outstanding by over 5%.
Lastly I want to remind you that we're on course to retire the $600 million of debt that comes due on November 1.
Now turning to our full year and Q4 outlook.
We are now raising our expected full year revenue outlook to approximately 7% growth compared to our previous outlook of 5.5% to 6%.
We still expect operating earnings as a percent of sales to be approximately 16.5% and a higher outlook sales.
In addition to our robust sales performance in Q3 we continue to expect Q4 sales growth of 2% to 3% over an exceptionally strong fourth quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of the planned iDEN decline expected Q4 growth would be approximately 5.%.
Our outlook for Q4 non-GAAP earnings per share is $0.78 to $0.83 from continuing operations.
This outlook is based on Q3 ending share count.
Consistent with prior quarters this outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.18 per share that is historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for segment and business highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
In the Government business our sales for the quarter were $1.4 billion up 9% over Q3 2010 growth was solid in all regions and particularly strong in Asia and Latin America.
Profitability for the segment also improved with operating earnings representing 16.2% of sales this quarter compared to 13.8% in Q3 of last year.
This increase in operating earnings was driven by our ability to grow revenues faster than operating costs.
This quarter marks the seventh consecutive quarter year-over-year growth -- or year-over-year growth in our Government business which demonstrates the priority that mission-critical communications spending receives among the federal and state and local governments.
In the U.S.
state tax revenues have increased for 6 consecutive quarters.
The recent National League of City fiscal condition survey showed that municipalities are better able to meet financial needs in 2011 and in the prior 2 years with public safety being one of the least likely areas to be impacted due to budget constraints.
In August we participated in APCO International's 77th Annual Conference and demonstrated our leadership in both the standards process and interoperability for first responders.
During the show we announced several exciting new products including shipment of our latest version of ASTRO as the industry's first commercially available P25 system with Phase II TDMA a technology which doubles the voice capacity of P25 Phase I for more efficient use of spectrum.
We already have 18 customers signed up for this release.
And during the quarter we shipped the $14 million project for Washington D.C.
and added a contract with the city of Cleveland for $38 million.
To complement our award-winning APX 7000 radio we released the first remote speaker microphone designed for firefighters.
Another example of innovation that produces life-saving technology for firefighters around the world is Speaker Mic.
It features a 2-microphone design that cancels out distracting background noise and has an emergency light activated mid-smoke.
Our innovation was on display at APCO with products of the future as well including a newly designed ultimate patrol vehicle in partnership with General Motors.
This vehicle has improved ergonomic designs with integration of our public safety LTE voice recognition and video solutions in the car.
Demand for our APX radio continues to grow highlighted by a $30 million contract with Jefferson County 911 dispatch in Missouri and a $5 million award with the state of New Jersey and several multi-million-dollar awards from the Department of Justice to continue rolling out APX radios to numerous agencies.
Internationally in ASTRO we received a $7 million award for an ASTRO P25 nationwide system expansion for the National Police of Colombia and in Mexico a $4 million ASTRO P25 network to the public safety State Council of Jalisco which will help support the 2011 Pan American Games in Guadalajara.
In TETRA we had another good quarter with an award for the state of Hessen Germany that includes over 50 000 radios along with service and support a deal that follows several other recent TETRA wins in other federal states in Germany.
We also renewed a managed services and support agreement with Airwave for $95 million to support their TETRA network in the U.K.
which is the largest TETRA network in the world with over 250 000 subscribers in nationwide coverage.
In Asia Pac we won multi-million-dollar awards with Shangdong Police and Kunming metro in China.
In addition to our leadership and public safety mission-critical voice standards of P25 and TETRA we continue to innovate in the professional and commercial market segments for voice communications including the digital mobile radio standard.
For example this past quarter we celebrated a milestone of having shipped over 1 million units of MOTOTRBO the first digital radio in the professional market segment that we introduced in 2007.
Today over 1/3 of our new shipments in this portfolio are now digital as users embrace the improved coverage and audio quality as well as an entire array of new features for these radios like GPS location-based services email alerts text messaging work order tickets and many more enabled by our applications developer community.
In our Government non-voice portfolio of mission-critical applications that we call integrated command and control we gained momentum with our new PremierOne software platform including a $3 million award for Will County Illinois to support the administration of the countywide enhanced 911 system and a $3 million contract for a new 911 emergency call system for the Royal Bahamas Police Force which will automate the dispatch of police and emergency vehicles and eliminate the need for officers in the field to report their location back to the command center.
A recent study by The Urban Institute evaluated 3 major cities that installed video surveillance systems and found that while crime reduction varied among the cities those who actively monitored the cameras reduced crime in a cost-effective manner.
Another example of a Motorola Solutions customer that's adopting this technology is Chattanooga Tennessee with the implementation of a mesh network that includes video cameras and laptops for police cars.
In public safety LTE opportunities in North America continue to evolve with additional demand in the Gulf states and parts of Latin America.
For example we recently announced Motorola Solutions will help the Brazilian Army test 4G LTE technologies for mobile broadband applications for public security operating in the 700 megahertz frequency range.
We continue to demonstrate our leadership in next-generation public safety LTE.
We recently announced our first devices for LTE: a vehicle modem which is installed in a patrol car or other public safety vehicle to create an in-car network with broadband connection back to headquarters.
And a USB LTE modem that allows mobile computers to access the public safety LTE network.
Together with Verizon Wireless we demonstrated a first-ever LTE public-private interoperability capability when a patrol vehicle outfitted with dynamic public safety applications maintained its live data sessions while seamlessly switching between the Motorola public safety LTE network and the commercial Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network.
The applications featured on the vehicle included computer-aided dispatch automate license plate recognition and live surveillance video.
So moving to the Enterprise segment.
Sales in the enterprise segment were $726 million an increase of 13% from Q3 of 2010 which was led by growth in our enterprise mobile computing and wireless LAN portfolios.
Operating earnings expanded to 18.6% of sales from 17.8% last year.
Mobile computing our largest product segment within Enterprise continues to grow at double digits.
In fact the third quarter was a record revenue quarter for this business as customers around the world deploy our mobile computing solutions to streamline their costs enhance their top line and drive business transformation.
Our mobile computing solutions are being used in a wide array of enterprise environments in customer-facing situations at a retail store to package delivery in one of the most remote places in the world.
Our Enterprise customers demand durable devices that offer a life cycle beyond the normal consumer device together with enterprise-class security device management and flexibility.
In addition to growth in core verticals like retail and transportation and logistics demand for our enterprise mobile computing portfolio includes an increasing number of wide area network-enabled devices.
Our mobile computing portfolio now ships with over 35% of devices including carrier WAN options reflecting expanded-use cases among knowledge workers who travel outside the traditional 4 walls of LAN coverage in areas like field mobility and sales.
Improving upon our offering of unique industrial designs for our highly rugged mobile computer portfolio we expanded our lineup of mobile computers for hazardous environments with Havelock [ph]-certified rugged device design to meet the needs of a broad range of mobile workers in the manufacturing government petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries.
We recently unveiled the ET1 tablet the first in an emerging category of enterprise-class tablets designed for verticals like retail manufacturing and logistics.
The ET1 brings a true enterprise-class device with enhanced durability an optional bar code scanner and magnetic stripe reader hot-swappable battery packs and secure system software.
Intended for demanding day-long use the Wi-Fi-enabled ET1 includes encryption and device management features that enable the device to be shared and provision for each employee according to the respective level of responsibility.
The ET1 an entire mobile computing portfolio will be supported by Motorola's portfolio of enterprise-grade software modules including RhoElements a new HTML5 application enablement framework from our recently acquired Rhomobile.
Using this framework businesses can now quickly and cost-effectively develop enterprise applications once and deploy them on both traditional Windows Embedded Handheld and Android-based Motorola devices.
Demand for our enterprise mobile computing solutions among customers in transportation and logistics also remain strong.
We won deals with Posten Logistik Group in Sweden for 10 000 MC65 units and with DHL in France for 1 500 units of the MC9500 series enabled with proof-of-delivery applications.
We continue to grow in the utilities vertical as well with examples like GDF Suez a French multinational energy company who chose our MC65 for field mobility use; and Eskom the electricity company which supplies 95% of South Africa's energy now uses 5 000 MC75 devices in their fleet.
In retail we've seen continued adoption of personal shopping and self-scanning solutions enabled with our MC17 device.
For example after a successful pilot Jumbo Supermarkets in the Netherlands decided on a $15 million -- sorry $5 million store rollout of over 6 500 devices.
In scanning a transition from laser to imaging in advanced data capture products continues to drive growth.
A primary driver for this transition is the requirement for retailers to read several types of bar codes including traditional 1D bar codes and new 2D matrix bar codes such as quick-response codes.
These new bar codes are often read from a consumer shopper's smartphone with mobile applications such as coupons and loyalty programs.
Retailers of all sizes are investing in tools to read these scans and capture the information to improve customer service and encourage customer loyalty.
Building on this trend we unveiled 2 new products in the past quarter including the compact DS457 fixed-mount imager and a sleek MK3000 micro kiosk offering premium 1D and 2D scanning capabilities as well as the ability to read bar codes for mobile phones.
In RFID we unveiled a next-generation industrial-class fixed RFID reader.
This RFID reader is designed for reading RFID-enabled pallets in bulk cases at dock doors conveyors and other industrial read points that require high reader performance for rugged environments.
In the enterprise wireless LAN we have a leadership position in our largest verticals such as retail.
In addition to the vertical demand expertise and integration with the rest of our portfolio WLAN differentiators for us include air defense and voice-over-wireless-LAN clients for our devices.
Raley's a $3 billion grocery store chain on the West Coast recently chose our WLAN solution combined with deployment and maintenance services for all of their 140 stores.
Our WLAN portfolio recently was recognized with a 2011 Research PilotHouse Award for market leaders based on our strength in technology customer service and overall value.
Last quarter we announced the formation of our Global Advanced Services team led by Bruce Brda.
I'm proud to report the recent contract with Sears demonstrates the power of this organization working with our field teams.
Over 83 years ago our first recorded sale was to Sears Roebuck.
And today Sears is transforming the way it serves increasingly connected tech-savvy shoppers.
Sears recognized the need to modernize their existing network infrastructure and they wanted a different model to align their business objectives with service level agreements from a leader in its industry.
Together we developed a life cycle proposal where we offered to build and operate and secure Sears' mobility infrastructure to enable on-the-go capabilities for its associates and better mobile experiences for its shoppers.
The result is a strategic relationship and a significant enterprise managed services contract which draws from our entire services portfolio including integration managed infrastructure and air defense security services.
Now turning to a total regional view for the company all in we saw growth in each one of our regions in Q3.
North America sales were up 6% which includes a 5% increase in Government.
EMEA delivered solid double-digit growth driven by continued strength in Enterprise and growth in Government.
Growth in Asia was solid double-digits balanced across Enterprise and Government while Latin America also posted a solid double-digit growth in Government and Enterprise.
Our solutions portfolio is more focused than ever on delivering mission-critical solutions to our core customers with the announced sale of our point-to-point Orthogon and point-to-multipoint Canopy businesses.
This business represented approximately $170 million in annual revenues and was not strategic to our core focus of Enterprise and Government customers.
Let me close today's call by saying that we had an exceptional quarter characterized by growth in Enterprise and Government and across all of our regions.
We also demonstrated operating margin expansion and significant return of capital to shareholders.
We did this while continuing to improve our cost structure and investing in strategic initiatives that we believe will improve our long-term positioning as a company.
Thanks Greg.
Before we begin taking questions we want to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many participants as possible.
Operator please instruct our callers on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from the side of Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg you mentioned solid growth across all regions.
Can you dig in a little bit to the Enterprise? Good growth there as well but just with some of the recent macro concerns there any change in order patterns or tone of customers that you're seeing?  And anything to call out by specific region? Craig no we had -- as I mentioned we had 13% year-over-year growth in the quarter.
We had double-digit growth in both mobile computing and WLAN.
I just think that there continues to be demand for mobile computing overall.
And as more and more workers mobilize those are favorable trends to us.
I think stepping back -- also by the way all in for both Enterprise and Government we saw backlog up slightly sequentially as well which we felt was a good sign.
So I think that we continue to perform in our key verticals.
But at the end of the day Craig the whole emphasis on ROI and enterprises to get their cost structure down while simultaneously trying to drive revenue increase performance at customer point of contact are trends that are favorable to us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could follow up with Ed.
Good performance on the OpEx this quarter and you got it flat next quarter.
Can you just update in terms of the course you identified at the time of the spinoff where you are and any additional measures you might look to take as you go into next year? I think as we updated on the last quarter call we felt confident that we had executed to the cost reduction initiatives to take out the overhang-related costs that we had called out pretty early beginning last year so I think we feel pretty good that those actions have been taken.
The cost structure is aligned and the main reason why you're seeing us now kind of relatively flat quarter-to-quarter and guiding to relatively flat expenses for the fourth quarter.
I think as we go forward into 2012 we'll come back to you with specific guidance.
But you should expect us to continue to leverage the P&amp;L going forward whereas cost structure will not grow to the extent of the sales growth that we'll expect the next year.
We'll take our next question from the side of Deepak Sitaraman with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg in the past you've talked about long-term margins of the business being in the 16% to 18% range.
This year you're already on track to do about 16.5%.
Can you talk us through some of the drivers of margin from here? I guess just beyond revenue mix and operating leverage what are some of the puts and takes we should be thinking about? I think that the levers on continued operating expansion of course start with revenue growth because we have gotten the cost structure further and further improved which is why you see the kind of operating leverage that you do this past quarter with OE or operating earnings growing 2x the top line.
I do think there's always opportunities to become more efficient as well as we have successfully spun off mobility 10 months ago in a lot of the support services.
We're always evaluating our shared services our engineering footprint our manufacturing capacity.
So we're looking at a lot of different things to ensure that we are as effective and efficient as we can be while still investing about $1 billion of R&amp;D.
So I think there's shared services real estate footprint obviously revenue growth and as we continue to be more efficient in the cost of goods side with the consolidation of suppliers I think there's a number of different things that can help us continue to drive operating margin expansion over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay then as my follow-up as you grow your services business how should we think about the impact of that on margins? Is that a drag to margins?  Or is it sort of a net neutral? Well I mean different product lines will have different gross margin profiles.
And it is -- you're right it is certainly likely that a lot of our services business will not have the gross margins that we enjoy in other segments.
Having said that Deepak we are not confused and all in will continue to manage the whole portfolio and our goal will be to continue to drive operating margin expansion and of course increase operating and free cash flow as well.
And so we'll manage that mix.
And just to add to that I'd say that as you look at our services business gross margins may be a bit lower as we've disclosed but operating margins are not that different.
So we don't expect the services business as it grows to be a drag on the operating earnings growth that we've been talking about.
We'll go next to the side of Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on your acquisition and divestment activities in the quarter.
Can you tell us how you look at this at the moment? How is the divestment of Canopy and Orthogon have -- how you've been thinking through that and also the acquisition of Rhomobile? And going forward is there any particular area in your portfolio where -- or in your geographic exposure where you feel you don't have the right exposure and you would see some further M&amp;A activity? So on the divestiture of what we call our wireless broadband business our point-to-point and point-to-multipoint the fact of the matter is it just wasn't strategic to us.
It was about -- it is about $170 million of annualized revenue and was struggling from a profitability standpoint.
And we were -- we had a very very small percentage of market share and we competed with the big boys who are more sophisticated and have a more robust product line for backhaul.
Folks like Ericsson and Alcatel-Lucent NEC so it just didn't make sense.
And it wasn't core to mission-critical communications.
And as we configure our own designs and solutions for customers sometimes we didn't even use our own product and that should be also a clue in terms of its lack of strategic value.
So it wasn't financially accretive nor was it consistent with what we talked about about mission-critical communications.
Shifting to Rhomobile we acquired that small software company because with HTML5 it will lessen the dependence on people writing applications for one operating system or another.
So today people write for WIN mobile 7.5 or they write for Android 2.3 or they write for Windows-embedded handheld or they write for BlackBerry OS.
And over time this will be all abstracted and you'll have one set of developers writing to a standard base what I would call API to HTML5.
So it really is designed to expand the applications portfolio for developers and to our Government and Enterprise customers and allow us the latitude of offering devices that may have either Microsoft or Android but do it in a way that attracts the ecosystem and developer community and provides ultimately our customers with the choices that they want.
So that's -- that was the philosophy behind Rhomobile which was an affordable all-cash-in tuck-in that we think was fundamentally key to our mobile computing business.
Overall portfolio.
And on the overall portfolio as we think about our current product portfolio we do not see a gap that we would identify today based on the franchises where we play and the platforms where we lead.
So we don't step back and say "Boy we really need to fill in X or Y."  That said we'll always be opportunistic in looking at opportunities that come forward.
But I think we have a very strong set of products and solutions at this point in time.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of geography you feel also you're  well exposed to all international markets you want to be exposed to? You don't see any gap there either? No I don't.
I think with 25 000 -- 1 700 feet on the street worldwide and 25 000 channel partners we will always use distributors VARs independent software vendors and the mix of alternate distribution channels for us to reach and touch kind of all corners of the world.
So I think as we continue to monitor and manage that mix I think we'll be able to manage accordingly.
Look Pierre as you talked about we will continue to look for opportunities.
If there's ways for us to strengthen our presence in a particular region that will definitely be a factor for looking to inorganically grow in a region where we might feel we can do better by going outside and acquiring.
We'll move next to the side of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First Greg did you give the size of the businesses that you divested? This quarter I know you talked about $165 million to $170 million annually but I'm not sure if I missed the actual number this quarter.
And given that it is generating losses I'm assuming you didn't get that much cash for it so I just wondered if you have that number in terms of what you received for it.
I would love that.
And my main question is on the Enterprise side.
It continues to kind of be on a roll.
Is wireless LAN a big play in the -- obviously it did well but can you give us some sense as to how well wireless LAN did and how large -- is that a growing piece of the business?  Or is the entire business growing that same 13%? And equally if you look at RFID you didn't mention it this quarter and it kind of comes and goes in conference calls in the past.
Was that a growth piece of it? I'm just trying to get a sense as to what are the main drivers that have continued to keep Enterprise as strong maybe from a product perspective whether it's wireless LAN or whether it's the direction of the new scanners or just trying to get a good sense of what really is driving Enterprise and any way you can kind of break it apart into smaller pieces would be great.
So what's driving Enterprise primarily I would say the twin towers of growth are mobile computing and WLAN.
Now Ehud that said our advanced data capture business while not very glamorous is strong and steady and it has density and materiality so that continues to be a positive contributor as well.
The divested businesses are $170 million annualized in Q3.
They were about $40 million or $41 million to dimensionalize what Canopy and Orthogon are in the Q3 results.
By the way we haven't closed that transaction yet although we expect to do that shortly.
WLAN is growing much faster than the 13% Enterprise rate overall.
I think the industry is growing strong but between our performance in the verticals utilizing air defense -- and by the way we're positioning WLAN more kind of in the kernel of our services offering as well reference Sears.
So I think that -- and also because cellular networks as you know continue to strain under the explosion of data and video traffic.
From a carrier standpoint WLAN is very well-positioned and you know what came out of the acquisition of the Symbol organization.
RFID is -- we're still bullish on it and think that it will have significant opportunities going forward.
I think it wasn't simply mentioned because it was a bit lumpy and there wasn't a significant reference or contract to mention in Q3 but that doesn't change our perspective that we think it's fundamentally key going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could have a follow-up actually there's just an earthquake in San Francisco so you might actually get some more business out of that depending how the first responders have to take care of that.
Wow I didn't know that.
Research Division</strong> It literally just happened.
But can you walk us through a little bit what's happening just completely switching gears on the Government side with Los Angeles and the LA-RICS project and kind of the puts and takes that happened over the last 6 months and kind of where you stand with that and how you see your odds are when they actually will choose a vendor for that and how you think you stack up? Well LA-RICS put out a bid as you know and we competed for that bid.
It came under review and ultimately was determined to be pulled back and rebid.
We led with of course our solution along with Verizon which is our anchor tenant partner on public safety LTE.
Ehud interestingly the new bid has not been let yet.
So we're very eager and prepared to respond.
And whenever it comes out whether it's later this month or I guess more likely looking like November we'll be anxious to compete on it.
I don't know Mark if you want to say anything more? No I think you covered it very well Greg.
We expect the current -- the reissued if you will RFP to be done later this month.
And we expect there to be competition as we would normally expect in a bid of this size in North America.
And obviously the entities both L.A.
City the independent cities in the county and the county are strong customers of ours so we intend to compete very hard for this business.
We move next to the side of Tavis McCourt with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The backlog you stated Greg I think you first said it was Government then you said it was combined Government and Enterprise.
Can you just drill down into the Government and kind of what's happening with that backlog?  I think last quarter you said it's been relatively flattish.
Did that change materially? So backlog in aggregate is up slightly.
So we don't talk about the individual segments of Government or Enterprise.
So what I was describing was that overall backlog is up which quite frankly we were pleased with given the 10% earnings growth in Q3.
I think it just reinforces what we have been saying about the mission-critical nature of public safety and there's a lot of different drivers that continue to both domestically and internationally expand our position in this key segment.
Specifically to your question that slight growth in backlog was driven by the Government segment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And when you have a quarter like this where obviously Government exceeded I think probably most of our expectations and probably yours as well is that typically because the turns business within Government got better or because you were able to basically recognize more of the backlog revenue than you would have thought 3 months ago? Yes I think it was actually a combination of a lot of things.
But as you said it was better than we even expected because we were being a little cautious in some of the regions given the headwinds that we were all facing.
As a result we were able to turn backlog.
But we grew backlog as you said.
So new orders were also very very strong.
So I think the exciting thing about that for us in the Government space is that there was growth in every region including EMEA which we talked about previously as not showing growth and North America continues to be very resilient and show very strong growth.
So it was really a combination of all things coming together as you said in a better and possibly better-than-expected effort.
And our next question from the side of Larry Harris with CL King.
Inc.</strong> I have a couple of questions related to LTE.
I think you've indicated that your first release of LTE equipment will be available on November 11.
I assume that you'll be shipping at that time or thereafter.
When can we begin to see significant revenues related to LTE? And do you think it'll be greater initially maybe in international markets like the Middle East or Brazil than the United States? So I think as you said we're excited about the initial release coming out the middle of next month and we will begin shipping to customers at that time.
As we've always alluded really from a revenue-recognition perspective we will see revenue in 2012 but we don't expect it to really become as you said in a significant kind of fashion or in a meaningful fashion until 2013.
We expect initial revenues to be in North America actually but we're  excited about the large opportunities in the Middle East and in Latin America and also in Asia.
So I do think the LTE we always said that it would begin in North America because of the good work that's been going on with the PSST and the D Block spectrum that's still being discussed but it will move internationally as it goes forward.
Inc.</strong> It's really from a revenue point of view post 2012 in terms of significance.
That's correct.
We move next to the side of Avi Silver with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just about -- can you talk a little bit about iDEN revenue in the quarter the outlook there?  And how do Sprint's plans alter your outlook if at all for the next couple of years? I think as we guided for Q4 if that's what you're  talking about we had planned for that iDEN revenue to decline in the fourth quarter marginally in line with what we're seeing now with the outlook that we saw in the beginning of the year.
So the iDEN decline overall for the year is a bit less than we expected and planned at the beginning of the year.
And I'd say going forward given that a lot of the revenue that we have today is related to services in support of the networks we will see that business decline in '12 and '13 but we expect the decline to be relatively consistent with this year and/or trail in the subsequent years.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And the other thing I wanted to ask about it is the MC17 which seems to be a really interesting product and has some I think you called out Europe last quarter.
Just curious how that's doing in Asia and the U.S.
and what are you seeing in terms of update -- of uptake.
And how big is this today as a percentage of the Enterprise revenue?  And how could -- how big could this become going forward with broader adoption? So as we've indicated and as you indicated the MC17 has had the strongest success in Europe and it continues to do so.
But it is within customer deployments in all regions.
We have a number of customers leveraging in the U.S.
and some in Asia and we continue to look at as we've previously talked about what is the right product or variation of this product as we think about markets like Asia and Latin America.
So we're excited about this project -- product but again we're excited about our entire mobile computing portfolio.
So I think we continue to innovate and we continue to see good uptake throughout the world.
And our next question from the side of Steve Tusa [ph] with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Drew Pierson in for Steve this morning.
Color on the 4Q guidance did you guys talk about kind of expectations by segment which segment might be directionally above or below that 2% to 3% for the 4Q? We've not talked by segment the growth.
We've just given the aggregate number for the quarter that's the 2% to 3%.
And backing up the impact of iDEN approximately 5% growth.
But we do expect to see growth in both businesses.
We'll give you that level of color.
I'll let Mark -- pass it to Mark for more color.
Yes I think Ed reiterated earlier this is in line with the guidance we gave previously and what our expectations were.
So excluding iDEN business if we think about the original guidance that we've always given around Government segment performing in the low to mid-single-digits and the Enterprise business performing in the mid- to upper single-digits that's really the expectation that we see and how the buildup of that 2% to 3%.
Then the iDEN decline is what brings it back to those kind of levels.
So again the earlier question about the strength of Enterprise and how we see it continuing it's still even in the fourth quarter coming off of a strong comparable operating at normal rates.
That's right Drew.
And if you look at last year about 14% growth in Q4 of last year that's what we were referring to.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay that's helpful detail.
I appreciate it.
And then it looks like your 16.5% margin guidance is unchanged.
You've divested what looks to be a money-losing business.
You've -- maybe a little more iDEN in there which is accretive to the margins.
Is there any reason that's unchanged or is it just kind of the moving pieces aren't enough to move the margin guidance higher? I really think it's the latter a bit higher expenses on the higher sales and just mix of product.
Just that I'll call out as well the impact of the business that was divested was actually -- profits was actually about $0.02 per share which is effectively offset by the impact of the share repurchase that was a favorable $0.02 per share so...
We'll go next to the side of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have a question and a clarification.
I think first on the clarification just to be clear the fourth quarter guidance that you are giving is that the basis excluding the Canopy business? That's correct continuing operations.
Research Division</strong> That's going to help the numbers.
Works a little bit better than they have been in the model.
And then Greg for you I was wondering could you talk to us a little bit about what the market and competitive position looks like for you in the Government business outside the U.S.? That seems to be a bit of a theme for you over the course of the last few quarters.
If you could spend a little bit more time going into that and what are your share opportunities are that would be super.
I think we're very well-positioned internationally.
As we talked about we grew double-digits outside of North America in all 3 regions.
I think it's a combination of our -- to an earlier point on this call the reach and capacity of 25 000 indirect channels which largely drive the Enterprise business and our embedded and incumbent position and strong sales force in different theaters on the Government side.
Overall too I think that there's just a variety of different demand drivers in different parts of the world.
And as Mark Moon mentioned earlier in the LTE environment the U.S interestingly North America will lead it first with the Middle East following shortly thereafter.
So when we talk about the public safety LTE business which is incremental to the business that we have at the moment it will largely be led first in the U.S then the Middle East.
And over time it will take Europe and Latin America to get their spectrum position in place but those are areas that will provide even further growth opportunities.
So I think we're in a good position but we can always do better and we'll always do more.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about what your shares are relative to where they are in the U.S.
and then which of it -- the competitive landscape? Yes we don't get into product market share per platform but it's fair to say -- well first of all we lead in TETRA worldwide.
But we don't have the kind of market share in TETRA that we have in P25.
In mobile computing our leading market share position is a little bit more consistent in North America as compared to other international theaters but we don't dimensionalize it beyond the aggregate.
Moving next to the side of Jeff Fidacaro with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we can just get a little bit more color on the outlook on the Government side particularly where budgets kind of stand your visibility at this point in time and any change into the -- in the sales cycles.
And ultimately could we see this government piece sort of uptick in revenue growth in 2012 versus '11? Yes so I think Greg's talked on a number of occasions about the -- the good thing about the Government business is we have relatively good visibility.
Many of these deals are long-term kind of acquisitions and you do get deals that build backlog so we continue to have good visibility.
As I mentioned previously our orders in the quarter for Government segment were up so we continued to see good performance in that particular piece.
So all in all as we look forward we certainly are keeping our eyes open to the economic situations around the world but we continue to feel that the current visibility is similar to what we've seen in the past and we really don't see any structural changes to our view of the Government business as we look into 2012.
And when you take kind of a step back all-in because the guidance is important remember number one the wireless broadband business is out -- is pulled out in Q4.
Secondly our 2% to 3% top line which incorporates that also kind of maps to more approximately 5% growth if you extract iDEN.
We're coming off a 14% year-over-year comp from Q4 of last year and backlog is up slightly.
So as you take things in composite that should give you a full flavor of how we're doing.
And recall also that we've raised full year outlook to approximately 7% all in for this year in 2011.
So those are the puts and takes and why we feel reasonably good about where our current position is.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just have one quick follow-up just if you give some color of a breakdown between international visibility versus U.S.
I think it's relatively similar.
I mean if we look at percentage of backlog versus revenue it's not dissimilar in North America versus the international markets.
So again while the portfolio may be somewhat different and sometimes the buying cycles are different they've been pretty consistent and still remain fairly consistent in the position of backlog versus quick-term business versus new orders that we need to convert.
To the side of Peter Misek with Jefferies.
[Operator instructions] Inc.
Research Division</strong> As we go forward for LTE and for other network deployments should we think that working capital usage is going to go up or down? We had good free cash flow this quarter so kind of love to get your puts and takes on free cash flow for next year.
Yes I think as we look forward some of that still remains to be seen as the deployments are really just getting started.
But I would say I wouldn't see any appreciable change in the way that we're managing the working capital levels and the related cash flow impacts.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we don't think -- you don't think we need a bigger investment as we see the growth accelerate and we should be modeling similar working capital trends that we saw this quarter? I think for now that's what I would assume.
As we get into these we will give you updates if we think that it's either more or less capital-intensive.
As I look at it as there are build-outs it's possible there could be a bit more capital required to roll some of these things out.
But we're not seeing that just yet so we'll update you as appropriate going forward.
We'll go next to the site of Matt Thornton with Avian Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have answered but maybe a couple like general ones.
I guess Greg just on a competitive landscape can you talk a little bit about any change that you've seen in behavior in pricing new entrants new aggressors? And then secondly more of a housekeeping question can you give us a quick breakdown as to where we stand regionally in the Government business and the Enterprise business?  Again just a rough estimate about the revenue mix by business.
In answer to the first question no meaningful changes on the competitive landscape.
And you know we consistently compete with in public safety North America on the systems side.
It's usually Harris.
Occasionally we'll compete against a systems integrator in North America as well.
On the professional and commercial radio business where we continue to lead worldwide and have performed extremely well from a share perspective and a financial perspective no significant changes.
WLAN same thing.
Whether it's Cisco or Aruba I don't think there's any material changes so we continue to move forward.
And as a result of that we also don't see at this point any significant swings or changes in competitive pricing as well.
Now obviously bids are always competitive and when you get to these large tenders price is very very important.
But I wouldn't say -- I'd say that's been very consistent over the last few years for us as we compete with large deals and that says we have to come up with the best product solution with the highest quality and continually drive costs out of this business so we remain competitive and win.
And that's our intention to do it.
I think on the growth by region color I think -- as we mentioned growth at every business -- in both businesses I should say Government and Enterprise and then growth in every region in every business for the quarter which I think is positive I guess a little more color we could tell you a bit more robust growth outside of North America across the board and the Government business in EMEA now coming to a point where we're talking about growth a bit more modest but getting back to growth as Mark had mentioned.
So that's the color we'll provide there.
And we'll take our final question from the side of Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> When we look kind of long term about the LTE announcements and opportunity there is it fair to say that these products and service offerings there are comparable to your existing product profitabilities? Or is there additional complexity added into the LTE initiatives that actually allow you to take your profitability up onto a little bit of a higher profitable level? And then I probably have a follow-up.
So I think the way to think about it Jim is and this was referenced a few different times we have to continue to grow this business on top line.
We're well-positioned from an operating leverage standpoint which means it would be our goal to continue to drive operating margin expansion and somebody mentioned the 16% to 18% framework that we have talked about and we talked about as part of our model and there's no reason that we can't see at this point why we shouldn't be able to continue to expand operating margins.
But we also recognize that there'll be a different mix of products and services.
But we believe we should be able to manage that mix all in and therefore drive improve operating cash flow and free cash flow as well as continue to increase and drive earnings per share and operating earnings.
And that's how we are approaching this moving forward.
Now all in we still believe that organically our long-term growth model for this business is 5% to 8%.
And obviously you've seen us do that throughout this year year-to-date.
Again for the full year of '11 we think we'll be able to grow the firm approximately 7%.
And we'll give you color in 2012 about that year in the January earnings call.
But the demand drivers are very strong.
We believe in the long-term model and we should be able to continue to grow earnings and cash.
And that's our intention as a management team.
Research Division</strong> Follow-up is for your calendar Q4 outlook am I correct that assumes the debt retirement already built into that? And then what would be the share count base that we should use?  It's a little difficult to know the linearity of the stock buyback.
So we will retire the $600 million of debt on November 1.
I think coming out of Q3 the diluted share count is 339 million.
We wouldn't forecast a share count going forward given the puts and takes but it was 339 million coming out of Q3.
And again given the share repurchase of $744 million we bought back 5% of the market cap of the firm at a price of $40.38.
So we'll continue to look at all those things carefully.
And the guidance we gave you for Q4 assume the Q3 ending so just to make sure you know we're  consistent.
I'll turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
I would like to remind everyone the details outlining highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our motorolasolutions.com Investor Relations site.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on this site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
During this call we made a number of forward-looking statements with the meaning of applicable federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent dates.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: future sales growth including segment region; earnings per share guidance; future tax rates and cash tax rates; expectations for operating expenses; operating earnings; the amount of other income and expense as well as operating margins and profitability; expected cash generation and needs for working capital; expected improvements in operating leverage; demand trends from Motorola Solutions businesses and products including wireless LAN RFID LTE and our MC17 device; our expected decline in iDEN and the timing and ability to repurchase shares under the share repurchases program; or our ability to pay future dividends; along with the competitive landscape including pricing.
Thanks and we look forward to speaking with all of you again shortly.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to our conference call to present Motorola Solutions' fourth quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our fourth quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
I would like to point out that the results Greg and Ed will highlight in their prepared remarks refer to continued operations and exclude the Amateur Marine and Airband radio businesses we recently exited.
Updated financials reflecting this transaction can be found on our Investor website.
We have posted an accompanying earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
In addition we have posted updated pro forma non-GAAP financials that reflect the recent move of the Amateur Marine and Airband radio businesses to discontinued operations.
I encourage you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
With that I will now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep and good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Q4 marked another great quarter for Motorola Solutions as we achieved a record performance for sales operating earnings and operating margin.
These quarterly results helped cap a very strong and exciting year for our company.
2011 was a year in which we streamlined and strengthened our portfolio generated excellent cash flow delivered substantial operating earnings expansion and returned significant capital to our shareholders.
Highlights for the quarter included growth in all regions.
Strong Government growth improved operating leverage and the continuation of a meaningful capital distribution program for our shareholders.
This morning we reported sales in the fourth quarter of $2.3 billion an increase of 5% from Q4 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.54 per share from continuing operations compared to $0.49 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.87 per share compared to $0.64 per share in Q4 of last year a 36% increase.
For the full year we posted revenue growth of approximately 8% while increasing non-GAAP operating earnings by 29%.
For the remainder of this call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
So overall our Government business revenues increased 6%.
North America Asia and Latin America all saw steady growth while EMEA was down slightly due to continued challenges in Western Europe but also the modules business divestiture we had earlier.
Operating earnings in the Government business grew 39% due to the strength in sales a stronger product portfolio and continued expense management.
Government sales increased 6% for the full year exceeding our outlook of low single digits.
In our Enterprise business sales increased 3% from the year-ago quarter including an anticipated decline in iDEN.
Growth in Enterprise excluding iDEN was 9% for the quarter.
Growth was driven by enterprise mobile computing and wireless LAN including managed services as customers continue to view us as a strategic partner enabling them to increase efficiencies revenues and customer satisfaction.
Operating earnings in the Enterprise business grew 10%.
On a full year basis the Enterprise business delivered revenue growth of 11%.
The sales growth this past year in both businesses is a result of our continued focus on new product innovation and delivering solutions recognized by Enterprise and Government customers as an investment with high returns.
We continue to enhance the features available on our products and we've expanded or tiered many of our product portfolios including mission critical voice and enterprise mobile computing.
With respect to capital allocation I'm pleased with our continued progress.
During the quarter we paid $72 million in dividends and repurchased $366 million in MSI stock bringing the total repurchase amount to over $1.1 billion during the first 2 quarters of the program that we announced last July.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed to discuss our financial results in more detail then I'll return to discuss some operational highlights and provide additional thoughts on our business performance.
Thanks Greg and good morning.
As Greg mentioned our Q4 sales included growth across all our regions and much of our product portfolio.
Along with solid revenues our disciplined expense management yielded another excellent quarter of operating leverage.
On a full year basis revenue grew 8% to $8.2 billion while operating earnings as a percent of revenue was 16.7%.
This represents a 29% increase in operating earnings from 2010.
In our Government business we saw continued growth in the fourth quarter with sales of $1.5 billion an increase of 6% from the prior year.
2011 full year Government revenues were $5.4 billion growing 6% over 2010.
The Enterprise business grew 3% to $753 million in Q4 driven by enterprise mobile computing wireless LAN and related managed services.
These Enterprise results included a $37 million decline in iDEN revenues.
For 2011 the Enterprise business posted revenues of $2.8 billion growing 11% year-over-year.
Earnings from continuing operations were $0.87 per share compared to $0.64 per share a year ago a 36% increase.
Operating expenses were $725 million or 31.5% of revenue which represents a 300-basis-point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
Operating expense dollars were up slightly on a sequential basis and generally in line with our expectations which we shared with you on the Q3 call.
Our operating earnings for the fourth quarter were $444 million or 19.3% of sales compared to $346 million or 15.8% in Q4 2010.
Operating earnings growth was over 5x the top line growth in the quarter.
Similar to Q3 this accelerated increase in earnings growth was driven by continued expense management focus as we lowered both R&amp;D and SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $9 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $24 million in Q4 2010.
This quarter's results benefited from lower interest expense due to a decline in outstanding debt.
In future quarters we expect this line item to be a net expense of approximately $15 million to $20 million.
Our effective tax rate was 33.7% for the quarter.
For 2012 we'd expect our tax rate to be in the range of 34% to 35%.
The average cash tax rate still expected to be approximately 20% or approximately 6 years as we utilize available tax credits.
Cash flow from operations was $44 million this quarter which was impacted by an incremental $250 million cash contribution to our U.S.
pension plan which I'll cover in a moment.
For the full year we generated operating cash flow of $847 million including a total of $480 million of contributions to the U.S.
pension plan.
We ended the quarter with $5.1 billion in cash and investments and $1.5 billion in debt which reflects the $600 million debt payment in the quarter.
We also spent in excess of $438 million in cash this quarter for share repurchase activity and dividends.
As Greg mentioned earlier we repurchased $366 million in stock during the quarter which brings us to over $1.1 billion in share repurchases for the first 2 quarters of the plan.
This amounts to a total of 26.6 million shares at an average price of $41.77.
In addition we paid $72 million in dividends during the quarter.
Before I turn to our outlook let me spend a moment summarizing some of the important items surrounding our U.S.
pension plan including our liability cash contributions and expenses going into this year.
As you all know our pension deficit is impacted by the volatility of corporate bond rates which are used to determine the plan discount rate as well as return on the pension plan asset portfolio.
The discount rate used to measure liability at the end of 2011 came in at 5.1% compared to 5.75% in the prior year.
Due to the new discount rate our total underfunded U.S.
pension plan at year end increased to $2.2 billion.
Our planned contributions of $230 million and the incremental $250 million contributed in Q4 helped to partially mitigate the impact of the lower discount rate on our net obligation and future pension costs.
Based on the company's current position we are projecting an increase of approximately $60 million in operating expenses in 2012 compared to 2011 related to pension costs.
In terms of the funding for this upcoming year we plan to contribute approximately $340 million to the U.S.
pension plan.
As a reminder the U.S.
pension plan was frozen in 2009 and has no future service cost.
Now turning to our Q1 and full year outlook.
For Q1 we expect sales growth of approximately 4% over the first quarter of 2011 including an estimated $35 million year-over-year decline in iDEN revenues.
We expect Q1 operating earnings of 14% to 14.5% compared to 14.5% in the first quarter last year.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.50 to $0.55 from continuing operations utilizing the Q4 ending share count.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q1 2011 of approximately $0.55 per share.
As we discussed in our Q1 call last year the $0.55 per share in Q1 2011 benefited from several nonoperating items within other income and expense primarily relating to investment and foreign currency gains.
And an impact of those items on a year-over-year basis is approximately $0.08 per share.
This outlook excludes items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases and stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.11 per share.
Intangible amortization declines from $50 million to $7 million approximately per quarter as certain intangible assets associated with the Symbol acquisition became fully amortized in 2011.
Moving to full year 2012.
Our outlook is for sales growth of approximately 5% which includes an anticipated $70 million iDEN decline.
We expect full year operating earnings to be approximately 17%.
The first quarter and full year outlooks factor in the previously mentioned $60 million in additional pension expense we will incur during 2012.
Finally we expect to grow operating cash flow in line with improvements in net income for 2012.
As Shep mentioned at the beginning of this call the outlook I shared with you is based on recently updated financial results which reflect the exit of the Amateur Marine and Airband radio business.
I'll now turn the call back to Greg for business highlights for the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
In Government our sales for the quarter were $1.5 billion up 6% over Q4 2010.
Profitability for the business also improved with operating earnings of 19.8% of sales this quarter compared to 15.2% in Q4 of last year.
Our growth in the Government business of 6% for the quarter and 6% for the full year demonstrates that mission critical communications remain a priority for our public safety customers and the communities they serve.
We had a strong finish to a very good year in North America Government with full year sales growth of almost 6% in the region.
Consistent with historical trends growth in Asia and Latin America was also very good.
EMEA saw a modest decline for the quarter and the year driven primarily by the divestiture of the Modules business.
There are many common demand drivers across all geographies as public safety users seek improved capability and coverage enhanced features from digital and interoperability.
In ASTRO our market-leading P25 compliant radio system we won several new large awards including St.
Louis County for $65 million to design and build one of the largest local radio systems in the Midwest; and Washington State Patrol for $25 million which will integrate with the existing Department of Justice P25 trunked system in the state.
The state of Tennessee chose us to implement Phase 1 of a statewide radio system to replace a decades-old system.
The $29 million upgrade will improve communications across public safety agencies and includes new safety enhancements such as emergency man-down notification and GPS capabilities along with improved coverage and multi-agency interoperability.
We also won ASTRO awards with several counties in Florida including St.
Johns for $26 million Seminole for $15 million Osceola for $11 million.
In Latin America we won a $20 million contract with the National Police of Ecuador to expand their P25 system and an ASTRO system with the Mexico Federal Electric Commission.
We won a 5-year $22 million contract to build a digital radio network for Western Australia's emergency services upgrading the existing Police Metropolitan Radio Network.
The project when complete will mark the first time 3 public safety agencies in Western Australia will share the same network.
We expanded our ASTRO APX line up of radios to include an APX 4000 portable radio for public works utilities and rural public safety.
APX now represents the first complete portfolio of P25 Phase 2 TDMA two-way portable radios in the industry.
Our portfolio extends beyond voice communications into other areas core to public safety such as dispatching in the operations center.
This past quarter we were selected by the city of Atlanta to integrate their surveillance camera systems which will enable Atlanta Police Department to observe incidents real time and deploy law enforcement personnel more efficiently.
Douglas County Nebraska recently chose our PremierOne computer-aided dispatch application to serve their needs in adjoining counties.
The Douglas County project represents the first installation of our PremierOne software into a customer-managed virtualized environment and will result in more efficient use of the county's mission critical IT hardware resources.
We continue to invest in our next-generation public safety LTE solutions and achieved another milestone this quarter with the first commercial shipment of our public safety LTE devices.
We also were awarded a $4 million LTE contract with Irving Texas as part of a larger voice communications system.
Our LTE solution gives public safety agencies the ability to immediately prioritize users most critical to serving an incident and allocate network resources when disaster strikes.
In addition our solution is interoperable with public carrier LTE networks providing a way for public safety agencies to extend their coverage through roaming agreements.
Growth in our professional and commercial radio portfolio continued this quarter driven by customers replacing analog systems with digital using our MOTOTRBO platform.
This trend drove solid double-digit sales growth for the portfolio and was evident in mature markets as well as growth markets.
For example in Q4 we won major deals in Russia Afghanistan and in Nigeria where we sold 25 000 MOTOTRBO radios to the Ministry of the Interior in the biggest MOTOTRBO project to date in the EMEA region.
Moving on to our Enterprise business sales in the Enterprise was $753 million an increase of 3% from Q4 of 2010.
This included a $37 million decline in the iDEN business and solid demand for the rest of the Enterprise portfolio.
Operating earnings expanded to 18.2% of sales from 17.1% last year.
For the full year 11% growth in Enterprise was driven by demand for our enterprise mobile computing advanced data capture and WLAN infrastructure products.
Each of these product portfolios grew at double-digit rates.
Demand remains strong in our largest enterprise vertical of retail.
The traditional retail landscape is rapidly incorporating new technologies around mobility that influence consumer buying behavior.
Our solutions in enterprise mobile computing devices and WLAN infrastructure help retailers meet consumer expectations for service and convenience from stocking to customer service and checkout.
Shoppers Drug Mart a leading Canadian provider of pharmacy products and services is installing our micro kiosks for price checking in most of their 1 200 locations.
And retail customers continue to invest in our compelling RFID solutions like Lord &amp; Taylor who's deploying handheld RFID readers in their stores to maintain accurate inventory levels and prevent out-of-stock situations thereby improving customer service and sales.
In transportation and logistics we saw a continued momentum during the quarter including projects with Italian post and a Dutch company specialized in logistics services.
In addition UPS recently awarded us a new contract for WLAN products that provide advanced WiFi for mobile computing.
This WLAN infrastructure will support UPS's next generation package scanning solution at its sorting facilities utilizing our wireless terminals and imagers.
Growth in Enterprise was in part driven by this category expanding devices like the ES400 which appeals to a customer base that requires a ruggedized device in a smaller form factor.
The ES400 has proven to be a beneficial portfolio addition particularly in EMEA where it's seen adoption by field mobility workers who make use of productivity and location applications running on the device.
Another win with Iron Mountain demonstrates continued moment with enterprise mobile computing for field mobility.
Iron Mountain is currently deploying MC9590 dual WAN enabled mobile computing devices with a proof of delivery application providing accurate tracking and real-time status updates.
This quarter we introduced the MC2100 industrial series addressing the need for a smaller rugged enterprise mobile computer that expands the range of solutions available for large enterprises and small and medium businesses.
The lightweight and ergonomic MC2100 is ideal for inventory management stock replenishment price marking and labeling.
It is also the first value-tier rugged handheld in the industry to support HTML5 via the RhoElements application framework that we announced last quarter.
Turning now to a regional view for the company.
For the quarter North America sales grew 6% while EMEA grew 4% driven by continued strength in Enterprise growth in Asia was 7% and Latin America grew 2% due to the planned decline in iDEN.
For the full year our regional sales performance included healthy growth in every region including North America 5%; EMEA 9%; Asia Pac 14%; and Latin America 10%.
We also continue to scale our global services team and build advanced services offerings around our core Enterprise and Government portfolio.
An example of the depth of the team is that we signed recently a new $134 million agreement with the state of Victoria in Australia to support the Metropolitan Mobile Radio ASTRO system a contract that began in 2004 to design build and manage the network for emergency services organizations.
And recently we reached an agreement to take over the Norwegian nationwide TETRA network from Nokia Siemens Networks.
Upon closing of this transaction we'll broaden our scope from a sub-supplier of core TETRA radio infrastructure to become the prime contractor including all managed services for the rollout and implementation of the mission-critical systems serving emergency and public safety services in Norway.
Every day our solutions are helping people be their best in the moments that matter.
This past year there were numerous examples where customers and communities experienced natural disasters and emergency incidents.
Our communication systems are relied upon during these difficult moments and our long-term commitment to this marketplace is exemplified as we help with rebuilding and recovery efforts.
In closing our Q4 results were a terrific finish to an outstanding year.
We exceeded our financial performance goals in 2011 while executing on our capital allocation plans which included a $1.2 billion of capital returned in the form of share repurchase and dividends.
I'd also like to thank our people and partners for their outstanding accomplishments throughout the entire year.
They continue to respond to the needs of our customers and partners in each business and region where we do business.
Given our leadership position and market-leading innovation I look forward to continued growth as we provide best-in-class solutions to both our Government and Enterprise customers.
Thanks Greg.
Before we begin taking questions we want to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up so we can accommodate as many people as possible.
Operator please instruct our callers on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Peter Misek with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess if we look at 2 key factors if we look at 2013 I know it's next year and we look at public safety legislation if it were to pass this year given Congressional support never mind the bickering they have how many quarters do you think it'll be before we would see a ramp in revenue for that if we make assumption that it passes this year? Peter if you're referring to kind of D Block it's a close call.
It's tough to say whether it will go this year or not.
But what I would say is that we are -- we remain pretty confident that eventually additional spectrum will be made to public safety.
To remind you and I think you referenced it we're not anticipating any material revenue contribution in '12 from LTE.
But I think eventually they'll get there and they'll coalesce around a plan to give public safety more spectrum.
That as we've referred to LTE is incremental to the plan and included and incorporated in the guidance we've given for this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to sneak one in on the guidance for next quarter if we look at historical patterns and what seems to be like your backlog going into the quarter it looks like the growth that you're forecasting seems very conservative.
Can you give us a little bit more detail there in terms of puts and takes seasonality on how we should be thinking about Q1? Well and I'm glad you mentioned that Peter because to remind everybody from a linearity standpoint Q1 is typically our lowest quarter.
So our guidance incorporates looking at historical trends for revenue contribution.
So it's 4% including the decline of iDEN in Q1 which I think is $37 million in Q1.
So if you normalize for that we would anticipate on a normalized basis it being higher.
But you're right Q1 is technically the lowest revenue growth quarter and then we ramp over time.
For the full year we're expecting 5% all-in even with a $70 million decline in iDEN.
And we're forecasting and anticipating operating margins of about approximately 17%.
We'll take our next question from Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> When we think about your outlook for 2012 I want to make a couple of clarification questions then I have a follow-up.
I assume that 5% outlook in sales is excluding the exiting of businesses is that correct? That's correct.
The results that have been included in discontinued operations will be taken out and that guidance is provided with that in context.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my question is when we think about your company has a lot of attractive cash flow and this year you paid down debt you started issuing stock buybacks and dividends and such.
When we think about your cash flow which if I heard correctly you think should basically mirror your sales growth of 5% maybe I'm off on that.
But let's say your cash flow does grow by 5% next year how should we think about the cash deployment there? Are you looking at a continual reducing of your share base? Does acquisition start to be a little bit more interesting here? How should we think about that use of cash which is a good issue to have? Okay thanks Jim.
I think a couple of things.
First we have the $2 billion share repurchase program as we talked about $1.1 billion through that program through the end of the year.
Another $900 million left to go through the end of 2012.
I think on the -- when you look at the cash flow generation the operating cash flow I think we're still sticking to the guidelines that we gave at the end of the second quarter.
That framework of the allocation of cash that is generated 25% CapEx approximately 30% to dividends and then that 45% remainder to a flexible combination of acquisitions and/or incremental share repurchases.
So I think we're sticking with that and I think that framework will work for us going forward.
We'll take our next question from Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Stan Kovler for Ehud.
I was wondering if you can update us on the $1.5 billion LTE funnel that you used to talk about before.
Where does that still stand if you can give us some information there? So Ehud if you think about -- I'm sorry Stan if you think about what we've talked about in the past we still remain very confident about the LTE funnel.
And we talked about in the past that it was not only a North American funnel it's been driven somewhat by the BTOP grant and the D Block that Greg mentioned earlier.
But there's also strong demand in the Middle East and in parts of Asia as well as Latin America where we're doing a trial in Brazil and are talking to Colombia as well.
So that funnel is still very healthy.
As we've talked about earlier no meaningful revenue in 2012 but we do expect the ramp to start in '13 and continue forward in the out years beyond that.
So we're still very excited about the LTE business as we go forward.
So next the side of Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg can you touch on the backlog in the public safety business and also visibility in that business today versus recent quarters? So Craig I would say our visibility is pretty consistent with previous quarters.
So we've talked about having a reasonable view 3 to 6 months out.
I think that's the same as we -- as it has been historically.
Backlog was down slightly exiting the year as we finished 2011 but we feel good about our position and it's been incorporated in the guidance we've given.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Ed on the 17% operating margin target you talked about some of the pension expense.
Any other puts and takes as you think about margins as you trend through the year in terms of SG&amp;A and gross margin? I think the big one we talked about is the pension expense of $60 million but we also did talk about the iDEN decline to a certain extent right? So the $70 million decline in iDEN which we have talked a bit more profitable given the stage of that business and the position that we are there in that business.
So I think those are that 2 big factors.
We'll get that leverage at the top line by managing expenses but growing the operating earnings from 16.7% to approximately 17% as a result.
We'll go next to Tavis McCourt with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The question is really on 2012 guidance although Enterprise ex-iDEN is still growing it clearly decelerated throughout this year.
And I was wondering as we look at the 5% guidance for the full year how should we be thinking about that split between Government and Enterprise and even if you can just talk qualitatively about that.
And then a follow-up on the pension Ed.
The cash contributions you're putting into the pension both last year and this year are those minimum requirements? And if not what are the costs and benefits you're weighing to decide on that cash number? So Tavis as you think about it we've had really good Enterprise performance for the last several quarters and very pleased with it.
Going into 2012 as we look at our individual businesses and segments with Government and Enterprise we think about Government growing low to mid-single digits for 2012 and Enterprise growing for high single digits and that's the mix that we're anticipating that gets incorporated for the full year annualized at 5%.
I think that this push for mobility in the Enterprise specifically in retail and the press for having store operations is informed as smart consumers when they come in.
Because more and more shoppers are smarter is pushing retailers and other enterprise verticals to equip and modernize from a mobility technology standpoint and those trends serve us well.
So on the pension front as you mentioned the $230 million was more in line with what we had planned at the beginning of the year and in line with what would be required.
The $250 million was the incremental amount that was contributed this year the voluntary amount if you will bringing the total contributions for the U.S.
plan to $480 million.
The $340 million next year I would view more in line with the required amounts as we look at the pension contributions for the full year 2012.
Our next question from Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get into the Enterprise segment a little bit because actually I'm not sure that it was as strong as you would have hoped it would be.
A little bit below seasonality in the fourth quarter and it seems a little bit light in the first.
Now it sounds as though that iDEN is a big part of that.
And if that's the case would you mind giving us a little bit more detail on how big iDEN is as a percentage of the mix? And if there's more to it rather than iDEN we'd -- I'd obviously love to hear that.
Yes Jeff.
So iDEN was -- declined $37 million in Q4.
And as you -- which is obviously included in our Enterprise results and compressed the revenue growth to all-in of 3% for Q4.
If you think of 2012 iDEN is going down approximately $70 million of which half of that decline is hitting us -- anticipated to hit us in Q1.
So that's the math that's working its way through the Enterprise P&amp;L.
But normalized for that we continue to see some positive demand both in transportation and logistics.
And obviously for Q4 we grew 9% and for the full year 11%.
So -- and it's coming off a pretty high base year of comps too.
So that's the composition of the segment.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell us what the total iDEN revenues were for 2011? So in '11 they were $365 million I believe.
And I think they're going to be -- we're planning on approximately $300 million for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would it be fair to say that they are above the corporate -- above the segment average operating margin? That's correct.
We'll go next to the side of Larry Harris with CL King.
Inc.</strong> Was wondering if you could perhaps discuss and I know it's a relatively small business but the Amateur marine Air/land radio business was that contributing about $22 million in revenues per quarter? And was this in the Enterprise or Government segment? And why is it being discontinued? It didn't look like it had a major impact one way or another on earnings.
Yes Larry.
I think your comment is exactly right across both fronts it was roughly $90 million for the full year.
We had picked up those businesses when we made the acquisition of Vertex Standard.
It was really noncore to our business as you mentioned.
Wasn't really substantial so we've decided to exit that Marine Airband and the Amateur business and stick back to our core business.
It was reported in the Government segment.
So we're going back to our core Government business.
Those brands will continue on under a new brand of Yaesu as it goes forward.
So we won't be in those lines of business.
Inc.</strong> And do you expect much in the way of proceeds from this or what will happen? No it was...
I would just say it was just a part of an agreement that we made with the former owner and there was a division of assets if you will so not a lot of net proceeds as a result.
We'll take our next question from Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg just a question for you.
In the core Enterprise business ex-iDEN your guidance for the full year seems to suggest a meaningful deceleration.
Is that more reflective of just the cyclical nature of that business or are there certain geographies or verticals that are driving that view? I think Deepak it's more or less coming off of previous periods strong growth in terms of year-on-year comp candidly.
We expect -- we had record years in our advanced data capture business in our WLAN business enterprise mobile computing was really robust.
We expect a continuity in extension of strong performance in those product areas.
And so I think it's more or less that.
Now obviously as I mentioned we still are all-in planning on high single digits for the Enterprise for revenue and low to mid on the Government segment.
Research Division</strong> Excluding the iDEN decline right? So that's...
The other comment around the regional clarity we spoke in the last couple of calls about the strength of Enterprise in Europe and particularly Western Europe which again as we plan for this year we've been a little more conservative given everything that's going on in that region.
We'll take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the short-cycle Enterprise business.
Are you seeing any kind of destocking or any kind of major movement in those businesses? I think as we look at that business we see the trends continuing the same.
In fact as we work through all of the supply chain issues that arose last year due to the incidents in Japan and in Thailand our distributors have continued to show strength.
In fact they continue to stock at pretty good levels.
So interestingly enough across the board the demand the buying patterns as well as the trends seem to remain consistent to what we've been seeing in the past.
We'll go next to Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> RFID you've talked about that a few times Greg.
Can you kind of give us an idea of the size of that market as you see it now? And with the standards getting a bit more kind of settled out where do you see that as a growth opportunity for your business and how do you see yourself positioned? Are you primarily a reader's player? Have you done anything -- you used to have a packaging capability do you still have that? Can you give us a little bit of a more run down on that part of your business? So Brian we're -- I'm still very excited about the opportunity but candidly it's pretty small.
And I think it will remain small.
Now we've had some great client references.
I mentioned Lord &amp; Taylor is the most recent.
And yes we're active and I think lead in the mobile reader space.
I think more and more retailers and other enterprise clients will also look to incorporate fixed.
I think there's opportunities for RFID both mobile and fixed and perhaps optimize with some things in our WLAN portfolio that could be unique.
So I consider us very strong in RFID.
I like our patent portfolio.
I like our product portfolio but it is small.
And while it remains an interest of high appeal for many customers it's not -- by no means material and I wouldn't see it as such for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> So it's below 5% of revenues? Absolutely yes for sure.
We'll go next to Matt Thorton with Avian Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ed a quick question.
Can you remind us I know you guys have a debt payment coming up this year I think it's like $400 million.
What quarter does that hit? And then secondly on the payment to Motorola Mobility how much is left and kind of how will that play out? So on a debt piece it's the fourth quarter and it's a $400 million amount that comes due.
We remain flexible on what we plan to do with that.
And we'll give you more updates on that as we move forward on the quarters.
On the Motorola Mobility I believe the amount that's left to...
$75 million.
To go there is $75 million.
That will depend upon as we disclosed repatriation of cash from certain foreign jurisdictions.
So we'll update you on that as there's news to report.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And how much did you guys repatriate in the quarter? We repatriated in excess of $400 million during the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And just one follow-up if I could quickly.
On the Wi-LAN business I know it's a fairly small but a high-growth business for you guys.
Can you kind of just talk about the demand you're seeing there quarter-to-quarter? And then perhaps just talk about how much of a priority you're putting on pushing outside of retail and your core cement 4 verticals into other verticals in that market? So the WLAN business and market overall is -- as you know Matt is really strong growth and we were clearly a beneficiary of that which was reflected by the fact that we've had our best year ever.
Now we do focus and we have great success in the verticals where we're strong.
So retail transportation and logistics energy utilities and that remains the power alley of where we focus our WLAN portfolio.
We're not nearly as successful in the verticals where we are not as strong from a distribution and sales coverage standpoint.
But the other thing I'd mention Matt is it's becoming an interesting asset more interesting asset as a component in our services strategy.
So as enterprise customers want to manage mobility behind the firewall and they're trying to do device management and security and manageability for a portfolio devices and optimize the performance of those devices with WiFi infrastructure obviously we bring all 3 elements of that stool the devices the wireless LAN portfolio as well as the manageability software.
So it was -- it had a really good year and I think we've got a great team leading it.
And I expect it to grow pretty strongly again in 2012.
And we will be targeted in our stronger verticals and using it as an anchor tenant in some of our managed services offerings.
I show we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you.
I want to remind everyone the details outlining highlighted items are GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our motorolasolutions.com Investor Relations site.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on this site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
During this call we made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.
Forward-looking statements or any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: future sales growth including by segment by region; earnings per share outlook; future tax rates and cash tax rates; operating cash flow; growth and uses of cash; expectations for operating earnings operating expenses including those related to pension costs in contributions the amount of other income expense as well as operating margins and profitability; future declines and intangible amortization; demand trends for our businesses and products such as wireless LAN LTE RFID and conversion from analog to digital; the ability of our products to increase efficiencies and revenues for our customers; our expected decline in iDEN; the timing and ability to repurchase shares under the share repurchase program; our ability to pay future dividends as well.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 12 through 25 and Item 1-A of our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K; on Page 46 Item 1A of our first quarter 2011 quarterly report on Form 10-Q; on Page 50 in Item 1A of our third quarter 2011 quarterly report on Form 10-Q; and in Motorola Solutions and other SEC filings.
Thanks.
We look forward to speaking with all of you again shortly.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our conference call to present Motorola Solutions' first quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our first quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
We have posted our earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials also include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
As always I encourage you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Q1 highlighted another record quarter for Motorola Solutions as we achieved strong sales growth improved operating leverage and returned significant capital to shareholders through our share repurchase program and quarterly dividend.
The most recent quarter included a number of significant product and solution launches that continue to demonstrate our unwavering commitment to deliver the best mission-critical solutions to our public safety and enterprise customers.
This morning we reported record first quarter sales of $2 billion an increase of 7% from Q1 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.50 per share from continuing operations compared to $1.07 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.59 per share compared to $0.54 per share in Q1 of last year a 9% increase.
And for the remainder of the call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Our Government business revenues increased 11%.
North America Asian and Latin America all experienced double-digit growth but we were also pleased to see growth in the EMEA.
Operating margins in the Government business improved 260 basis points year-over-year due to strong sales growth across our portfolio and another quarter of disciplined cost management.
In our Enterprise business sales declined 2% from the year-ago quarter including an anticipated iDEN decline of $31 million.
Growth in this business excluding iDEN was 3%.
This increase was a result of growth across our portfolio as customers continued to select our solutions.
Regionally both North America and Asia had strong results while EMEA was down slightly as we expected in comparison to an extraordinarily strong Q1 of 2011.
On the capital allocation front we continue to make significant progress in our initiatives and path to net debt that we spoke about at our financial Analyst Meeting last month.
During Q1 we paid $70 million in dividends and repurchased $1.4 billion in MSI stock bringing the total repurchase amount to approximately $2.5 billion since the program was announced in July of last year.
I'll now turn it over to Ed Fitzpatrick to discuss our financial results in more detail.
I'll then return to discuss operational highlights and provide additional commentary and perspective on our overall business performance.
Thanks Greg.
Q1 was another quarter of strong growth in operating leverage.
Along with revenue growth of 7% our disciplined expense management yielded an increase of operating earnings of 9% despite a $13 million increase in U.S.
pension expense.
We saw broad-based revenue growth in our Government business with record first quarter sales of $1.3 billion an increase of 11% in the prior year.
Operating margin in the Government business improved 260 basis points driven mainly by sales growth and continued leverage.
The Enterprise business declined 2% to $655 million driven by an anticipated iDEN decline of approximately $31 million.
Excluding iDEN Enterprise posted growth of 3% as a result of growth across the broader portfolio.
Operating margin in the Enterprise business declined 360 basis points.
The decline was primarily attributable to iDEN.
Increased pension and foreign currency expenses also impacted operating margins.
While on the topic of sales I wanted to make a brief mention of our backlog.
In order to provide a more comprehensive view of backlog and to provide a metric that is more consistent with industry standards we've changed our reporting methodology.
Previously our backlog calculation excluded certain services-related contracts and backlog expected to shift beyond 18 months.
We're now adding these items to our backlog figure as it is more reflective of our visibility.
Under this new methodology our quarter-ending backlog was $6 billion which compares to $5.3 billion in Q4 of 2011.
The sequential increase in backlog is due to the previously announced award of the public safety network in Norway.
Turning to earnings.
Earnings from continued operations were $0.59 per share compared to $0.54 per share a year ago a 9% increase.
Operating expenses were $689 million or 35.2% of revenue which represents a 100-basis-point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
Our operating earnings for the first quarter were $290 million or 14.8% of sales compared to $266 million or 14.5% in Q1 2011.
This increase was a result of our continued work to balance critical investments in the business with the content focus on operating leverage.
And as I mentioned previously our first quarter results include a $30 million increase in U.S.
pension expense from Q1 of the prior year.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $4 million in the quarter compared to net income of $3 million in Q1 2011.
The prior-year quarter benefited from investment gains in excess of interest expense.
In future quarters we expect this item to be a net expense of approximately $15 million to $20 million.
Our effective tax rate was 34% for the quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the range of 34% to 35%.
Cash flow from operations was $69 million during the quarter which was in line with our expectations.
Q1 2012 includes approximately $150 million in certain annual incentive payouts.
In the prior year all incentive payouts occurred in the second quarter.
In addition we paid $50 million related to our previously announced legal settlement.
With respect to working capital I am pleased with our results in inventory management as our turns were 8.3 compared to 7 in the year-ago quarter.
Our receivable balance declined as expected from Q4.
In the second quarter we anticipate liquidating certain notes receivable related to the Networks business we sold last year.
These receivables were reclassified to short-term accounts receivable from long-term other assets last quarter.
We ended the quarter with $3.8 billion in cash and investments and $1.5 billion in debt.
As Greg mentioned earlier and as we addressed at our Financial Analyst Meeting last month we purchased $1.4 billion in stock during the quarter which brings us to approximately $2.5 billion in share repurchases since the inception of our plan.
We've reduced our share count by approximately 16% since the start of the program with a purchase of 54.6 million shares at an average price of $45.38.
In addition we paid $70 million in dividends during the quarter.
Now turning to our Q2 and full year outlook.
For Q2 we expect sales growth of approximately 6% over the second quarter of 2011.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP 	earnings per share of $0.65 to $0.70 from continuing operations.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q2 2011 of approximately $0.54 per share.
Consistent with prior quarters this outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.10 per share and items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
Moving to full year 2012 we are reiterating our sales outlook of approximately 5% growth and operating margins of approximately 17% of revenue.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Ed thanks.
In our Government business sales for the quarter were $1.3 billion which is up 11% over Q1 of last year.
We saw solid growth in all regions including significant growth in North America.
Our profitability also improved with operating earnings growing to 14.1% of sales this quarter compared to 11.5% in Q1 last year as the business continues to scale.
Some notable wins among our ASTRO P25 radio platform included projects in Pierce County Washington and Adams County Pennsylvania valued at $18 million and $19 million respectively.
We also announced a $12 million county-wide system to support all Sumter County Florida public safety and public service agencies.
We announced a $7 million system in Colombia County Georgia that includes our latest ASTRO P25 Base 2 system yet maintains backward compatibility to the legacy networks.
And in Warren County Ohio we replaced their 22-year-old system with a new $9 million ASTRO 25 emergency communications network for public safety and public service users across the county.
Internationally the Ecuador police will deploy $10 million of additional ASTRO radios to increase the current installed base with our APEX series.
In TETRA the International TETRA Awards recognized one of our ultra-rugged radios for its design and use in hazardous environments.
In addition our customers were recognized for their adoption of TETRA technology including Best Use of TETRA in Public Safety for Airwave in the U.K.
and Best TETRA Innovation for the Hong Kong Police.
During the quarter we also won additional TETRA awards with Hong Kong Mass Transit and the Mumbai India Airport.
Growth also continued in our professional and commercial radio portfolio with solid double-digit growth on top of an excellent first quarter last year as customers continue to choose our digital solutions like MOTOTRBO.
This year's International Wireless Communications Expo in Las Vegas provided an opportunity for us to share our latest government solutions and innovation.
We announced the MOTOTRBO SL Series two-way radio an industry-leading incredibly thin and light digital radio with its slim form factor designed to meet user requirements and solutions for hospitality services security and airports.
With innovative features such as integrated intelligent audio and intuitive work order ticket management this device enhances professionalism and discretion while enabling improved customer service and faster response times.
We also introduced the LEX 700 the first handheld Public Safety LTE device which delivers street-ready data over Public Safety LTE.
This mission-critical handheld delivers a compact rugged form factor with intuitive user interface in unprecedented access to multimedia applications over multiple networks including Public Safety LTE.
We've talked about how important this technology is for public safety and first responders in the U.S.
We recently were awarded a $4 million contract from Harris County Texas to expand their Public Safety LTE network with additional sites to deliver enhanced video and data capabilities along with expanded interoperability with their existing ASTRO 25 radio system.
And in February President Obama signed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act which reallocated the D Block for public safety use.
In addition the law provides a funding stream over the next 8 to 10 years at $7 billion for a nationwide network buildout.
We believe we're well positioned to compete for this business in Public Safety LTE.
The products and solutions developed in our Enterprise segment often appeal to our Government customers as well.
For example the Colombia National Police purchased over 2 000 ES400s for their police force as a supplemental device to connect with local citizens.
Moving on to the Enterprise business sales in the Enterprise segment were $655 million a 2% decrease from Q1 of last year.
Excluding the expected iDEN decline of $31 million actually Enterprise grew 3%.
Remember also this comes off of an 18% growth rate in the year-ago quarter.
Operating earnings were 16.2% of sales compared to 19.8% last year with the difference in decline primarily driven by iDEN pension expense and foreign exchange.
At the National Retail Federation Convention in January we showcased a number of examples of our leadership and innovation.
Together with our partners we demonstrated how technology continues to change the retail landscape from the warehouse to the store floor.
Our Retail customers continue to invest in solutions to improve their customers shopping experience.
Demand for this technology comes from all segments of the retail value chain including designers distributors and retail points of presence with online or traditional stores.
For example Macy's recently chose our MC3190 and our wireless LAN infrastructure with air defense to drive real-time inventory accuracy within their operations.
In another example of our purpose-built enterprise mobile computing portfolio United Airlines has initially deployed over 3 000 MC95s for baggage handling accurately tracking bags as they move throughout their North American network providing greater visibility and improved customer service.
And TNT Express in Germany is deploying new proof-of-delivery applications at our MC95 enterprise mobile computing devices as well.
In our advanced data capture business we unveiled the rugged DS3500 extended range scanners with the flexibility to capture bar code information from extended distances for warehouse management and other harsh industrial environments.
Goya Foods recently chose these extended-range scanners because of their ability to scan both 1D and 2D bar codes.
And furthermore Goya expects to improve efficiency with the flexibility of a single device that meets all of their scanning requirements.
Our go-to-market remains focused on a combination of our 1 700 direct sales professionals and our 20 000-plus channel partners who help us meet customer needs and extend our reach.
Our PartnerEmpower channel program was recently awarded with a top rating from CRN magazine again recognizing the support and investment we provide to distributors resellers and applications developers.
Our global services team continues to respond to customer demand for more managed services.
This quarter we finalized the transaction to assume responsibility for Norway's nationwide TETRA public safety system representing a $750 million contract through 2026 one of our largest public safety agreements.
Our services team continues to help public safety and public service agencies adopt innovative technologies like video surveillance as well.
For example the city of Chicago video surveillance program continues to expand in Chicago and with additional agencies such as Chicago public schools where the program includes -- now includes 14 high schools to keep students safe.
In addition we recently partnered with the city of Cleveland to integrate their Cleveland shared security surveillance network for public safety.
Now turning to a regional view for the total company.
For the quarter North America sales grew 9% driven by solid growth in both Government and Enterprise.
EMEA grew 1% with growth in Government.
Asia posted 14% growth while Latin America decreased 5% as a result of the planned decline in iDEN which disproportionately affected the region.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator please instruct our callers on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the site of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was inquiring about the growth rate for the full year.
I think it has been not uncommon for you to be listing your growth rates in these quarterly calls.
I think not this time of course.
Can we continue to expect the 2011 growth rates to apply for each region through 2012? Or has that have been reason to inject some caution into that view? And then my follow-up is it sounds as though the -- some third-party data sees some share loss in wireless LAN and we're wondering what we can think about that.
So Jeff I mean our Q1 results were very good.
We're only 90 days into the year and we're mindful of some of the continued extenuating circumstances particularly in Europe.
That said again we had a great Q1.
Government was a little stronger.
Enterprise was -- is returning to more normal levels off of very high comps last year.
And we're just mindful of the European situation.
That said I think we're more confident in our full year outlook than we were a quarter ago.
And we'll continue to evaluate and update accordingly.
In terms of WLAN I think it's too early to get all the results in for Q1 just because of the fact it's recently completed.
Typically we have grown.
WLAN's been great and it has tracked generally in line with the overall market expansion.
We do particularly well in our target verticals of retail and transportation logistics.
But overall it was solid in Q1.
Our next question comes from the site of Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up on the comments on Enterprise in Europe.
Can you talk about what you're seeing in other geographies and if growth in those other geographies you think will be enough to sustain growth or Europe will be a bigger drag? So Craig remember overall kind of as we take a full year view we always thought that Government would be in low to mid-single-digits.
We thought Enterprise would be higher single-digits.
And Europe was soft to your point but outside of Enterprise in Europe if you look at Enterprise in the other regions we had solid growth.
So it was pretty specific to Europe.
And that said backlog was up sequentially.
So we'll see how things unfold going forward.
But overall a pretty good balanced quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and as -- on my follow-up just anything you could point to in the Government business.
I mean that continues to track above expectations whether it's your view of market share gains new product refreshes or what else? Can you give a little more detail about what's driving the stronger-than-expected growth in Government? Well Government was really good pretty much in every region.
And in North America as we said it was really strong as well.
I think Craig we had some very good systems business i.e.
infrastructure business in Q1 which actually lends itself positively forward-looking as you think about adding subscribers downstream over the next several quarters.
But the demand we've said public safety has always been typically prioritized higher.
We continue to see that.
I think it's representative of a strong systems business which was seasonally stronger in Q1 than typical and continued solid growth in our PCR business.
So it continues to perform really well.
And also we're refreshing the products too.
So we have -- we continue to tier our professional and commercial radio products.
People are moving from analog to digital in the PCR business and we think we're very well positioned to capitalize on that.
So it's a combination of continued good momentum product refresh and strong growth throughout the world.
And Craig what I would add there too is we had mentioned growth in Europe as well right?  Europe had been relatively flat and down in prior quarters probably for the last 8 quarters.
So it was nice to see that return a little bit to growth which was good.
Yes we had a double-digit growth in Government in North America Latin America and Asia.
And to Ed's point we also grew in Europe as well so it was a really good quarter for Government.
Next we will go to the site of Deepak Sitaraman with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg just on your backlog how much of the change in the backlog under the new reporting method is related to Public Safety LTE? And can you give us an update on how we should be thinking about timing just of when Public Safety LTE can be meaningful for you? So the difference in backlog around Public Safety LTE is minimal.
Because it's still very early-stage.
Remember we -- as Ed described we had -- it's really -- the way we counted backlog in Motorola was more of a legacy issue of traditional Motorola Inc.
i.e.
we were only -- we were not including services and we were only including backlog that went up to 18 months old.
This is a much more comprehensive and all-in view that gives you and us greater visibility around the total enterprise.
Backlog was up.
Deepak it's primarily driven by the award in Norway.
Public Safety LTE was de minimis in terms of changing backlog quarter-over-quarter.
In terms of overall contribution we talk about beginning to get some traction in 2013 for Public Safety LTE and more meaningful contribution of 2014 and beyond.
Deepak just one quick comment.
I think the encouraging piece while Public Safety and Government was up it's also important to note that Enterprise backlog was up as well.
So even as we talk about it I think it's a good sign as we go forward because pretty good growth in our Enterprise backlog as we move forward.
And then Deepak one more clarification to add or -- when you break down the increase from the old methodology to the new a little over $2 billion of the increase was due to the service contracts and then about $500 million to $600 million of the increase was due to the 18-month rule that we had just to give you a little more detail on that.
And we -- I'll -- just so you know we also filed those are up on our website.
You can see the backlog comparison both new method and old.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And just as my follow-up on capital allocation specifically buybacks given that  you almost threw the existing authorization that's outstanding how should we think about buybacks? Are you going to continue to be opportunistic?  Or should we expect a steady cadence as you move toward a net debt position? So as we talked about at the Financial Analyst Meeting a little over a month ago share repurchases remain a critical component of our capital allocation framework so you should expect that to continue.
With that said on the current program we've executed $2.5 billion out of the $3 billion program so about $0.5 billion remaining.
As we look at it from a how do we approach it throughout the rest of the year I think you said it right I think we will be opportunistic.
If the price is lower we'll be a bit more aggressive.
And if it's a bit higher we'll be a bit more measured as we move forward here.
So you should expect to get update from us at the appropriate time.
But again remains a critical component of our capital allocation plans.
The next question comes from the site of Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could delve a little deeper into this -- the TETRA contract in Norway.
Should we be thinking of this as kind of a blueprint for how you would expect contract awards in the LTE first-responder market in terms of the inclusiveness of the contracts links and dollar amount so forth? And then secondly the backlog growth in Government looks like if you backed out that Norwegian contract it was actually down slightly.
Is that seasonally normal?  Or do you have any year-over-year backlog numbers you can give us for that? So Tavis this is Mark.
So if you think about the Norway contract it's very similar to many of the contracts that we have for public safety throughout Europe.
As we've talked about in the past their contracting is a little different.
When they look at nationwide contracts similar to what we've done in Airwave we have that kind of setup in a number of countries in Europe.
And Norway in particular that original award was to NSN and we were only an equipment provider.
This change was the customer actually awarded us the entire end-to-end offering as a prime contractor so that includes a lot of services a lot of other things as well.
We do that similarly throughout Europe and in other parts of the world.
As you compare it to LTE I think that model is still to be determined.
And I think there's a lot of work going on.
We have some as we've mentioned in the past some individual contracts today that do look similar in some fashions to that.
But I think the overall picture of the contracting methodology is still to unfold as this rolls out.
When you think about backlog the other comment as we talked about all the details before is if we went back to our old methodology for a second backlog was still -- excuse me so I think the important piece is while Norway was the biggest piece of it that it's still overall we didn't see any strong differences to Government and Enterprise other than the Norway change.
And just to have us a little bit more color so overall backlog is up.
As Mark referenced Enterprise backlog is up as is Government.
To your specific inquiry if you back out Norway Government backlog is down slightly which yes is seasonally consistent with previous periods.
Next we will go to the site of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First of all Greg I know that your air defense system that you sold Macy's has to do with WiFi security but I still can't get the image out of my mind of Bloomingdale's attacking them from the north and they needing some kind of like missile defense system against them.
It just stuck in my mind.
A couple of questions.
Your guidance for Q1 obviously was 4% growth.
You did 7% you're guiding next quarter at 6%.
I realize there's an item decline going on here as well but you're still keeping your full year guidance at 5% which would imply for the most part decelerating year-over-year.
Given the out-performance in Q1 what didn't give you the confidence to raise your full year guidance?  Just if you can walk us through what your plus and minuses in thinking about that? Then on the Norway contract the $750 million did NSN recognize any of that ahead of time? So is the remaining part of that contract that you're actually buying in or opting into now less than $750 million? If you can give us a sense as to what that is? And then the strength that you did see in Government this quarter can you -- is there a way of discerning how much of that came from narrowbanding versus regular course of business? So on Norway NSN did not -- when we talk about the $750 million opportunity that is for us through 2026.
NSN did not recognize any piece of that.
In terms of overall 2012 just to be clear we are more confident than we were a quarter ago in our full year outlook.
In addition to that we're only 90 days into the year.
And there's elections going on in France.
We had as expected softness in Europe European Enterprise specifically.
Enterprise was pretty healthy in the other regions.
But we just want to take it in a more measured way and see what happens in Q2 and update you then accordingly.
I think it is important though we are more confident in the full year outlook.
And iDEN decline we continue to manage and I think we'll be able to do that.
Government was a little bit stronger Enterprise returning to normal levels.
So I think it's more of a stay-tuned situation and we'll update as we get another quarter underneath our belt.
And your third question was...
Research Division</strong> Narrowbanding? Narrowbanding.
I think it was fairly modest is my instinct on Q1.
Mark I don't know what you think.
I think the overall effect of narrowbanding is clearly impacting the move to digital.
But we see this move to digital around the world so it's not just a North America phenomenon.
We're having strong growth rates in the digital portfolio worldwide.
So -- and I think you'll continue to see that as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Can I sneak a quick follow-up margins? As iDEN falls off obviously iDEN's a very high margin business so your Enterprise margin comes down.
Although it's not really coming down it's just kind of a function of the mix I think with iDEN.
What's the right operating margin we should think of for the Enterprise business without iDEN? I think we talk about that in kind of full year terms because it really depends on the quarter.
As you know we ramp up sales throughout the year.
So on a full year basis we said that the Government and Enterprise businesses were relatively stable are relatively consistent in the aggregate without iDEN.
So you could think of it in that term.
I think the Government a bit higher but they're relatively comparable if you will for the full year results Ehud.
And what you should think of as well both businesses improving year-over-year.
Operating earnings as a percent of sales both Government and Enterprise Enterprise if you back out iDEN improving nicely both about 1% that we had talked about before.
Next we will go to the site of Peter Misek with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question really comes down to pensions.
How much more in payments do we have? Where are we in terms of expectations plans expectations et cetera? If you could provide some color there that would be great.
And then I have a follow-up.
Sure on the pension expense.
Pension expense we talked about it being up approximately U.S.
pension expense approximately $60 million year-over-year.
I mentioned on the call the quarter impact of that was about $13 million to the quarterly results.
The cash flow impact to that I think were about $100 million higher $340 million of contributions this year to the U.S.
pension plan.
That's kind of incorporated in our full year cash forecast.
And as I mentioned on the prior call we do expect full year operating cash flow or free cash flow to be up from the prior year relatively in line with our improvement in operating earnings for the full year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how much of that cash $340 million have you contributed so far already in the year? You'll see it in the Q.
I think it's -- I think we're about $130 million.
I think we did $70 million after the quarter and we did something in the $60 million range.
So about $130 million.
It's relatively smooth throughout the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you expect pensions next year similar sort of outlay to top it up or is that how we should look at it? I think the cash contributions next year are relatively consistent.
It may go up a bit.
I think the expense right now that we're seeing will be up slightly.
It won't be quite the impact that we saw this year.
And that all depends on the discount rates as you know right? So discount rates can go up or down.
If they go up we'll see a benefit.
If they go down God forbid may see a bit of an increase.
But right now if it's -- everything stays where we expected it should be a muted impact in the next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to put a bow on all of this if we look at your cash movements and we look at working capital requirements in terms of the business the backlog and what you're seeing in growth et cetera I would expect and please clarify if this is incorrect that your working capital requirements are probably at the level they need to be.
I would expect that your LTE equipment prebuilds or trials et cetera would have already started and you're contributing to that? I guess my point of my question is don't we have a situation where cash is going to be greater than what you thought 30 60 90 days ago and therefore we could probably see a little bit more repatriation to shareholders?  That's my final question.
I think we still feel good about cash for the full year.
A lot of the things that we've seen so in the full year forecast for profit's consistent with what we had planned and what we had talked to you about last quarter.
So still expecting cash flow to improve year-over-year based upon that improved earnings.
There are some -- there will be some increase in working capital as our sales ramp year-over-year.
We are planning for improvements in inventory turns -- improvement in inventory turns year-over-year.
We do have a bit of work to do still on receivables as I mentioned collecting certain long-term receivables that were reclassified to short term this quarter.
And we'll try to get at some of that this quarter.
But I think that at the end of the day the cash guidance that we gave for you the cash flow guidance is still consistent with what we expected.
Working capital ramp a little bit but our working capital efficiency as we normally try to do to to challenge ourselves has improved year-over-year.
We are driving to do that.
And that's factored into that outlook I just gave you.
[Operator Instructions] And next we will go to the site of Matt Thornton with Avian Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Not to beat a dead horse but on Enterprise I guess 2 questions.
Can you kind of just talk about the linearity in the quarter? And then secondly one of your prime comps in that business just missed their numbers by about 12%.
So I'm wondering if you can talk to kind of a share shift in that business as well and whether you think you're taking share in the Enterprise business? So I think it was clearly too early in terms of Q1 Matt.
But I think that when we think about our core Enterprise portfolio over the last 4 to 8 quarters our view in -- our view is we're holding -- we're slightly gaining share in advanced data capture and in enterprise mobile computing.
WLAN probably holding -- maybe a slight decline in WLAN overall but in that case in the WLAN business it's experiencing from a segment growth 30%- or 35%-plus growth.
So again Enterprise backlog Matt was up.
It was -- our Enterprise business in Europe was soft as anticipated.
But overall we were generally pleased with the exception of Enterprise in Europe.
And of course that the overall segment reporting includes iDEN but we've talked about that.
And we'll manage that in a measured way year-over-year and continue to do that.
So one quick add-on.
If you think about the linearity I think as Greg indicated we do think that it will continue to return.
I would remind you that in Europe we were coming off of a comparable year-ago quarter of 29% growth.
So even when we talk about it being down I don't want you to leave with the impression that Enterprise growth in Europe is really concerning.
We clearly are watching it carefully but it's coming off of a strong comparable.
As we move throughout the year we still to continue to think that Enterprise growth overall will continue on kind of the pace as we've indicated in the past and will return back to those normal levels as Greg indicated earlier.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful and just one follow-up if I could.
Greg I'm sure you're aware the NTIA's advising a lot of the different jurisdictions that have planned to build out public safety LTE Networks they're advising them to hold off until the first net organization can kind of provide the blueprint if you will later on this year to ensure interoperability.
I know Public Safety LTE revenue is de minimis at this point but you expect or do you anticipate any impact from potential delays there in the back half of this year? I don't think it will be a big deal for us one way or another this year.
I do believe that I'm mindful of what needs to be implemented regarding the overall legislation but having said that BTOP grants have been extended to a number of customers with waivers.
And we think it's very important for our customers for them to maintain that momentum and to continue to build and deploy accordingly.
Because we believe those deployments are entirely consistent and compatible with the overall rollout vis-à-vis Public Safety LTE in the 700 MHz band.
So we wouldn't want to have any unintended consequences of pausing or hitting the stop button that would appear to be disruptive for our customers disruptive for employees and quite frankly disruptive from a job continuity standpoint.
We want to continue to move forward and we think we're able to do that but also be complimentary and mindful of what they need to do vis-à-vis first net going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And if I could sneak in just one housekeeping one for Ed.
Ed I think you guys had about $37 million in stock-based comps.
You know what that split of that is between R&amp;D and SG&amp;A? I don't have that at my fingertips.
Next we will go to the site of Dale Wettlaufer with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering how much of a threat is iPad to enterprise computing? And I have a follow-up after that.
The majority of our Enterprise -- we think it's quite low because the Enterprise mobile computing business is for us is more around rugged heavy industrial scanning warehouse back room e-commerce.
We have very little presence in front-facing store operations -- some but the requirements for our devices are more around ruggedization and heavy industrial use.
So we think it's reasonably small at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then backlog ex Norway I don't think you gave the year-over-year number unless I missed that? We did not.
We didn't because we're -- we've recalculated the 18-month backlog to the full life cycle backlog plus services.
So we think the most accurate information we can give you is sequentially quarter-over-quarter.
And again overall it's up.
It's up in Government it's up in Enterprise as well.
Yes I don't think -- just to give color.
I don't expect that you would see any significant changes given just history of that it's been relatively stable.
So the one big change really relates to Norway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask another question on that.
Is the Norway contract among your largest managed services contracts? And could you describe the scope of the contract? Yes so it is one of the largest.
I think we had mentioned although we have a number of large managed services contracts throughout the world this clearly is in a whole different game when you look at the size.
It will actually be deploying a nationwide TETRA network throughout the entire country of Norway and that will include site buildouts equipment installation operations of that network once it is deployed and it will be deployed in a number of phases.
And then ultimately obviously when you talk about operations it's not just operating the network but also maintaining it.
And as we look going forward we think we'll continue to upgrade it with technology over this life cycle of the project.
And next we will go to the site of Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Question for you on foreign exchange for the quarter.
Obviously we saw some significant movement around the world.
Can you guys provide a little bit of color about how that perhaps impacts your results both from a top line and bottom line perspective? Sure.
The biggest impact top line was driven by the euro but not overly significant.
We talked about a little bit about $10 million impact during the quarter that was offset by some favorability in Asia partially offset.
In operating earnings it was probably a $4 million to $5 million impact to the negative and EPS probably relatively flat for the quarter.
Great.
And then one follow-up if I may.
In terms of pricing I guess let's come back to your Enterprise segment.
How was pricing in the quarter?  Were you aggressive in some pockets or is it fairly typical for the first quarter? I think we actually saw typical pricing for what we would expect for the first quarter.
As we've looked at our ASPs across the portfolio they've been able to maintain again part of that driven by some new product introductions.
But nothing unusual as we look at what happened in the quarter.
And there are no further questions in queue.
So I would like to announce that this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is once again www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our call to present second quarter results for Motorola Solutions.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our second quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
We have posted an earnings presentation and press release at www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials also include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
As always it's important for you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Q2 highlighted another strong quarter for Motorola Solutions as we delivered strong sales growth and operating leverage resulting in excellent earnings growth.
In addition we continue to place a high priority on the return of capital to shareholders through our quarterly dividend and share repurchase program.
This morning we reported record second quarter sales of $2.1 billion which represents an increase of 8% from Q2 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.60 per share from continuing operations compared to $0.14 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.70 per share compared to $0.54 per share in Q2 of last year which represents a 30% increase.
For the remainder of this call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Our Government business revenues increased 14% a record second quarter.
This reflects broad-based growth across all of our regions driven by a combination of factors including core market growth new product introductions and narrow banding in the United States.
Operating margins in the Government business improved 330 basis points year-over-year to 16.4% due to the sizable growth in sales across our portfolio coupled with our continued focus on cost management.
In our Enterprise business sales declined 2% from the year-ago quarter including an anticipated iDEN decline.
We've seen this business impacted by a number of factors including most notably a tougher macroeconomic environment especially within Europe coupled with foreign currency headwinds.
Let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
During Q2 we paid $64 million in dividends and repurchased $439 million in stock bringing the total repurchase amount to $2.9 billion since the program was announced approximately 12 months ago.
One year ago we initiated a dividend authorized a repurchase program and introduced a capital allocation framework.
Today I'm pleased to announce that the Board of Directors has approved an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.26 per share an increase of 18%.
In addition our board has increased our share repurchase authorization by $2 billion bringing the total to $5 billion.
These announcements reflect the continued confidence we have in our business as well as our earnings growth and cash flow generation opportunities.
Ed will speak more on this topic later in the call.
I'll now turn it over to Ed Fitzpatrick to discuss our financial results in more detail.
I'll then return to discuss operational highlights and provide additional commentary and perspective on our overall business performance.
Thanks Greg.
Q2 was another strong quarter of earnings growth and cash flow generation for MSI.
Along with revenue growth of 8% our focus on operating leverage yielded an increase in operating earnings of 15% compared to last year despite an $11 million increase in U.S.
regular pension expense and $20 million of unfavorable FX impact to operating margins.
The unfavorable FX impact was driven primarily by the weakening euro.
We saw broad-based revenue growth in our Government business with record second quarter sales of $1.5 billion an increase of nearly 14% from the prior year.
Operating margins in the Government business improved 330 basis points from 13.1% to 16.4%.
This leverage was driven by strong sales growth and our continued focus on cost management.
Enterprise sales declined 2% to $689 million.
Operating margin in the Enterprise business declined 340 basis points.
The margin decline was primarily attributable to changes in sales mix along with foreign currency headwinds.
Turning to earnings.
Earnings from continuing operations were $0.70 per share compared to $0.54 per share a year ago a 30% increase.
Operating expenses were $721 million or 33.6% of revenue which represents a 210-basis-point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
Our operating earnings for the second quarter were $350 million or 16.3% of sales compared to $304 million or 15.3% in Q2 of 2011.
Total other income expense was a net expense of $38 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $17 million in Q2 2011.
The largest driver of the year-over-year increase in this line was a result of significant devaluation of a number of currencies versus the dollar most notably the euro.
This negatively impacted the quarter by $21 million compared to Q2 of last year.
In addition we incurred a $6 million loss associated with the early debt repayment made in June.
Going forward we expect this line item to be a net expense of approximately $20 million to $25 million which includes incremental interest expense associated with the net increase in our debt levels during the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 33.1% for the quarter.
For full year 2012 we expect our effective tax rate to be 34% to 35%.
Cash flow from operations was $254 million during the quarter driven by strong operating earnings and solid working capital management.
With respect to working capital inventory management continued to improve and we achieved 8.9 turns compared to 7.5 in the year-ago quarter.
I'm also pleased with our receivable balance as it continued to decline from Q1 driven by improved collection days and the continued liquidation of certain notes receivable we retained from the Networks business we sold last year.
We ended the quarter with $3.7 billion in cash and investments and approximately $1.9 billion in debt a net increase of $350 million in long-term debt from the prior quarter.
We issued $750 million of new debt with a coupon of 3.75% and retired $400 million of notes due in November.
As Greg mentioned we purchased $439 million in stock during the quarter which brings us to over $2.9 billion in share repurchases since the inception of our plan.
We reduced our share count by approximately 19% since the start of the program a year ago with the purchase of 63.7 million shares at an average price of $45.80.
In addition we paid $64 million in dividends during the quarter.
Year to date we’ve returned over $1.9 billion to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
We have shared with you our clear set of priorities with respect to capital return and allocation.
One of those priorities is moving to a net debt position by the end of 2014.
With that as background I would like to now discuss the capital return announcement that Greg referenced earlier.
Today we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per share.
This represents an 18% increase over the prior quarterly dividend.
We also announced that our board has authorized an increase of $2 billion to our share repurchase program.
With respect to our long-term capital allocation framework we believe the current mix that we initially outlined is still appropriate based on our capital needs and goals.
This mix is to allocate 25% of operating cash flow to capital expenditures 30% to dividends and 45% to a combination of share repurchases and acquisitions.
Now turning to our Q3 and full year outlook.
For Q3 we expect sales growth of approximately 3% over the third quarter of 2011.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.69 to $0.74 from continuing operations based on our Q2 ending share count.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q3 2011 of $0.66 per share.
Consistent with prior quarters this outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.12 per share and items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
Moving to full year 2012.
We are now increasing our outlook from approximately 5% to 5% to 6% growth with operating margins remaining at approximately 17% of revenue.
This overall outlook assumes the euro at current rates.
We now expect full year growth for Government to be upper single digits while Enterprise growth for the year is now estimated to be relatively flat.
This revised Enterprise segment view which is inclusive of the anticipated iDEN decline accounts for a more challenging macro environment along with the FX headwinds we have mentioned.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Ed thanks.
In our Government business sales for the quarter were $1.5 billion an increase of 14% over Q2 2011.
We saw strong growth in all regions.
Profitability also improved with operating earnings growing to 16.4% of sales this quarter compared to 13.1% in Q2 of last year.
We've talked previously about some of the growth drivers for public safety that include interoperability spectrum efficiency and compelling return on investment.
Customers are seeking to overcome spectrum constraints by selecting our latest version of ASTRO 25 with P25 Phase 2 which is nearly twice as efficient as required by the current FCC narrow band mandate in the United States.
For example Apopka Florida recently celebrated the world's first deployment and acceptance of a dual-mode ASTRO 25 system with Phase 2 P25 TDMA.
They doubled their channel capacity for secure encrypted communications without the need for adding frequency bands antenna sites or stations.
And our APEX radios provide multiband functionality in one device allowing first responders the freedom to seamlessly connect between multiple frequencies for interoperability between agencies improved mobility and response time.
Another example of a Phase 2 TDMA system that's being deployed is Maryland's First Responder Interoperable Radio System Team or Maryland FiRST as it's known a statewide 700 megahertz radio communication system designed for state and local public safety officials to communicate with each other on a common system.
And this quarter the city of Toronto selected our ASTRO technology with Phase 2 TDMA for a 700 megahertz shared police fire and EMS system implementation.
Other significant ASTRO wins from this quarter include the state of Ohio for $80 million Lakeland Florida for $12 million state of Pennsylvania police for $10 million and Centre County Pennsylvania for $13 million.
In Latin America our ASTRO solution was selected by the Chilean Investigative Police to cover the entire country with both trunking and conventional mode.
We also sold a $37 million ASTRO system to Ecuador's National Telecommunications Corporation for the National Police.
In May we participated in TETRA World Congress in Dubai where we introduced the MTP3000 handheld radio which redefines mission-critical performance with superior audio quality and improved coverage.
A TETRA-equipped version of our vision for the ultimate police patrol vehicle demonstrated the latest technologies and integrated controls to enable streamline decision making.
In China we were awarded a $3 million TETRA system with Beijing Metro and a multimillion TETRA contract for the Mass Transit Railway in Hong Kong.
The London Underground recently chose Motorola Solutions TETRA equipment for a $6 million system expansion as well.
Among our integrated command-and-control applications portfolio Randall County Texas contracted with us for a $2 million advance computer-aided dispatch solution that uses GPS to enable dispatchers to locate officers and vehicles while officers can run license checks from their patrol car without calling dispatch.
This solution also incorporates a public safety LTE network and expands the LTE core which is owned by Harris County Texas.
The evolution of public safety LTE in the U.S.
continues as first net and the related D Block governance structure takes form.
As we've said before we do not anticipate material revenues from LTE until the back half of 2013.
Meanwhile the market for Public Safety LTE is global as the tools and capabilities from this vital technology benefit public safety responders and citizens.
This quarter we launched a trial with the Brazilian Army and in May nearly 1 000 government officials and customers gathered in Tel Aviv for a showcase to explore the benefits of public safety LTE by Motorola Solutions.
In addition we've seen continued interest and activity from several countries in the Middle East.
In our professional and commercial radio tier double-digit growth continued.
We also expanded our industry-leading MOTOTRBO series with the release of the XPR 7000 and XPR 3000 series digital portables designed to meet the communication needs of public service manufacturing education hospitality and service industries.
These new radios add to a growing family of devices giving customers a choice of different form factors and feature sets as seen in the ultra-thin and lightweight SL Series portable and the XPR 5000 Series mobile which both launched earlier this year.
Moving on to our Enterprise business sales in the Enterprise segment were $689 million a 2% decrease from Q2 of 2011.
Operating earnings were 16% of sales compared to 19.4% last year.
In June we announced a $200 million cash offer to acquire Psion another pioneer in the rugged mobile computing industry.
Psion works directly with its customers and partners to also develop mobile computing hardware software and services that meet their specific rugged mobile computing needs.
The acquisition of Psion will allow us to strengthen our portfolio with ruggedized handheld products and vehicle-mount terminals and deepen our presence in the global markets in which we compete.
The acquisition also supports our international growth strategy by providing an attractive global base of customers.
Psion brings a talented team with extensive mobile computing design expertise and professionals with key industry experience and we expect this transaction to close in Q4.
We also hosted events in Boston and New York to share our view on the future of retail.
Drawing from our deep domain expertise and world-class portfolio we framed a vision where retailers will rely on advanced solutions to control the path to purchase and turn browsing into buying and shoppers into brand advocates.
During the events we previewed new devices like the SB-1 wearable smartbadge which includes a personalized task manager scanner and push-to-talk voice capability along with the MC40 a sleek customizable touchscreen solution that runs on Android and offers enterprise class durability secure payment processing and powerful voice connectivity.
Notable wins in the Enterprise for the quarter included a $2 million order from Tesco which includes our MC17 devices and personal shopping system and a $3 million CVS purchase of wireless LAN infrastructure for their stores.
The U.K.
Mail Group the largest independent parcel mail and logistics company in the U.K.
selected our global services team for a $2 million contract to manage 2 000 devices with asset tracking software upgrades and security management.
Our industry leadership was recognized by Gartner with a strong positive evaluation in their market scope report for the ruggedized handheld computer market noting several areas including devices for harsh environments specific market solutions and vertical solutions and new task-specific devices.
We also hosted over 160 developers from across the Americas where we announced new investments for our developer community as part of the PartnerEmpower program.
Attendees learned how to architect next-generation solutions using our latest tools platforms products and technologies including the RhoMobile Suite 2.0 our latest tool for applications developers which has been downloaded over 20 000 times.
Turning to a regional view for the total company.
North America and Latin America both grew by 10% driven by robust demand in Government.
EMEA grew 5% with double-digit growth in Government.
Growth in Asia of 5% was balanced across both Government and Enterprise segments.
So in closing I'd like to thank our 21 000 employees globally for their focus on providing solutions to our customers.
Q2 was another very good quarter for Motorola with strong growth continued operating leverage and additional capital returns to shareholders.
While we're pleased with these results we remain clearly focused on execution investing in new products and solutions increasing our top line earnings growth free cash flow generation and return of capital.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator could you please remind our callers how to place a question? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Peter Misek with from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on R&amp;D.
Obviously as we have LTE ramping we've had R&amp;D investments.
You've invested well in front of that as you have with previous major network changes.
Can you walk us through how we should think about R&amp;D for the next few quarters? Can we see R&amp;D level off and maybe even come down as a percentage of sales? And are there any sort of more temporal-type expenses there that we could see managed as we see the shift happening? I just think that you'll see us continue to focus on cost management overall as we look forward for the second half of the year.
In terms of R&amp;D we've talked in the past that we would expect R&amp;D and G&amp;A and other major functions on an annual basis to typically trend and improve from a leverage standpoint as a lower percentage against revenue.
So when we look at below gross margin costs against overall revenues we would expect to be able to continue to get improvement year-over-year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I can just sneak a follow-up on the capital structure comments you made about going net debt position by 2014.
Can you help us understand the process that you and the board are going through to think about what the appropriate capital structure is? What are you benchmarking? How should we look at that evolution? Are we going to look at a reverse auction for buybacks? So Peter I think the strategy is really just a continuation of what we outlined last year with the capital allocation model a piece described the dividend 30%; 25% to CapEx; and that 45% to share repurchase and/or acquisitions.
So I think that hasn't changed.
The other key tenet is that the capital structure really will be driven off of an adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA metric of around 2 such that the debt levels will be calculated based upon our ability to bear and our improvements in EBITDA.
So I think that's really the way we're looking at it and the way we're modeling it going forward.
Next we will go to the site of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Could you go into a little bit more into the change in the revenue picture a little bit? I think as we cycle back a couple of quarters certainly the Enterprise outlook was a little bit brighter.
Could you help us understand that a little bit better? I think secondly 3% year-over-year growth is sort of not what’s been in the range of the target model over the past couple of years.
Could you help us understand what is happening in that quarter in particular and then why the December quarter would be better? So just a couple of things Jeff.
As we look to the remainder of the year we now expect the Government segment to grow in the upper single digits and Enterprise to be relatively flat of course including iDEN for the year.
I think the moderation in the update in Enterprise is a reflection of the macroeconomic conditions particularly in Europe as well as the foreign currency headwinds.
Enterprise actually grew in all other regions.
If you look at Q3 and you look at our revenue guidance of 3% I remind you that a year ago our Q3 comp of last year was an exceptionally strong quarter overall at 10% so that's one factor to consider.
We expect continued decline in the iDEN business in Q3 of approximately $20 million.
And we expect the headwinds around foreign currency in Q3 to be about approximately $30 million of top line.
So when you think through the previous year comps you incorporate the continued decline of iDEN and then the incremental headwinds of foreign currency led by the euro.
Those are the ingredients that factor in.
Now having said that we're still raising full year revenue guidance from about 5% to 5% to 6%.
And we'll continue to manage our costs closely and look to get continued improvement in leverage over the next few quarters.
Jeff you also asked I think a question about linearity or seasonality in the quarter.
I heard you say something about Q4.
So as we’ve talked about before as our quarters progress Q1 is typically always the lowest quarter.
We step function up to Q2.
Q3 is usually typically in line with Q2 sometimes up sometimes down.
And then we typically do step function up in Q4 from a seasonality perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that $20 million to $30 million impact that you referenced Greg that is year-over-year impact or sequentially? Yes.
I think Greg talked about the top line about $30 million -- $30 million top line impact for Q3.
But I'd say it's $30 million to $35 million and that contemplates us in and around the current euro exchange rate of $1.21 today.
But it's year-over-year.
Year-over-year yes that's right.
Next we will go to the site of Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could talk about some of the backlog statistics that you talked about on the last call for Enterprise and Government.
And then a quick one for you Ed on -- I think there was a writer on the highway bill that had some impact to pension fund accounting.
And wondering if you can run us through the impact if you know yet on your pension fund issues.
So if we look Tavis at our Q2 backlog it's roughly $5.9 billion which is down about $100 million from what we discussed last quarter.
Government relatively flat.
And Enterprise was down.
When we normalize for FX really the backlog was basically flat.
So as we look at it I think we're not surprised by the decline in Enterprise as we've seen pressure there but we still feel fairly confident about our visibility and as we look at our guidance going in the quarter.
So relatively speaking backlog has remained consistent to slightly down.
And on the pension piece Tavis as you know and I saw your note on it I think you had it right.
The change in the calculation of the discount rate should lead to a higher discount rate which would lead to a lowering of the required annual cash funding.
So that's something that we would look at and contemplate if that makes sense strategically going forward to close the funding deficit.
Also included in the bill are some PBGC fees that are scheduled to go up starting in 2014.
So we're going to assess all that in line with the overall strategies on pension as we go forward here and we'll come back to you later in the year with our plans to address.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And did you talk about an Enterprise number x iDEN? No.
What I was just commenting earlier that Enterprise was up outside of Europe and the regions.
Without iDEN it was up slightly.
Our next question comes from the site of Jasmeet Chadha with Bernstein.
I had a question on Enterprise.
So it dropped about 20% in 2009 which was clearly an exceptional year.
What sort of downside could we expect this time in a worst-case scenario? And if you are worried today on what you're seeing into the second half and what kind of measures would you take if there was a pronounced weakness? And then a follow-up on Government.
So where does the strength today in the Government revenues come from? And is there reason that we should worry that it could snap back in 2013? So I'll take the last part of that 3-parter first on Government.
Obviously we're very pleased with the record Q2 of 14%.
If we look at the growth of that and what makes it up I would say 11% of the 14% are coming more or less from half of our core market growth which includes continued expansion in both North America and international and the other half from a continued investment in R&amp;D that has allowed for the expansion of new products and innovation.
And probably 3% as best our estimate of the 14% is driven by narrow banding here in the U.S.
Now that said we typically usually have structural drivers that continue to require our customers to upgrade and invest whether it's in the prior periods.
Years ago it was Nextel re-banding.
It continues to be analog to digital not only here under the narrow banding mandate in the U.S.
but the drive for analog to digital internationally.
There'll be some number of customers that won't meet the narrow banding mandate by the end of the year so they'll continue to invest in more spectrum-efficient radios and mobiles and infrastructure.
And then also as you know there's a number of aged customer installations that are there throughout North America and in other geographies that we will look to migrate and upgrade accordingly.
So if you look at the 14% our best estimate is that 3% of the 14% is narrow banding in the U.S.
but 11% is still very strong driven by core market growth and the expansion of our new products.
In terms of Enterprise I'll let Mark say a few words.
Yes.
So if you think about Enterprise clearly I think Ed highlighted before as we think about the year and we have guided now to relatively flat it is down from what we've traditionally seen and what we have said as expectations.
Now with that said I would say it's primarily macroeconomic driven because we have held ASPs and we believe we've held market share in all of our categories at least all of our major categories with the possible exception of wireless LAN.
The other piece that I would say around Enterprise again as Greg mentioned was the growth in every region still gives us somewhat confidence when you say without iDEN.
And even in Europe that was only slightly down I would remind you that the previous year the growth in Europe for Enterprise was 39%.
So again I think given the headwinds that we've got there the Enterprise business has held.
So as we go forward we'll continue to monitor it continue to give you guidance.
But all in all I feel pretty pleased with the way we've held and the way we performed and continue to monitor it as we go forward.
Sure.
Just one follow-up on that.
So when you say that regionally Enterprise was strong or up year-on-year outside of Europe is that x iDEN? Or is that including iDEN? That's correct.
What we've mentioned here was x IDEN.
Without iDEN.
I mean I think the one big region there is Latin America.
So I think his comment is correct.
I mean I think that Mark may have mentioned it but I think in Europe we talked last quarter that it was -- that Enterprise was down primarily driven by FX.
Otherwise it was relatively flat.
This quarter it was down due to FX.
We actually were up net of the FX right? So it was -- I think we're holding our own in EMEA.
We will next go to the site of Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg just following up on the revised revenue guidance 5% to 6% anything else you can touch on in backlog or just visibility this quarter versus a quarter ago? I know you mentioned narrow banding but any other things that gives you confidence to nudge the growth rate up a little bit? Well I would say just generally our visibility levels remain unchanged Craig which I think is good news.
We're just trying to have the guidance reflective of the macro conditions under which we're competing.
But as Mark referenced backlog normalized for foreign exchange was relatively flat.
And we're focused to execute on Q3 and knowing that 3% while it doesn't sound fantastic when you look at the subcomponents and the ingredients and compare it to a very strong comp previous I think we'll continue to perform as we expect.
And we'll manage all the levers available to us and we're not confused in terms of what needs to be done.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Ed just a follow-up on the buyback.
In the press release it said no expiration date.
Anything to read into there versus the prior programs where you had it out kind of 18 months or so? No I think it's -- Greg can add.
I think our coming out of the gate as the separate public entity MSI we thought it was appropriate to have an end date there to ensure that everyone knew investors and also like -- that we had a sense of urgency on return of capital to shareholders.
We think we've demonstrated that.
We will continue with the program and be deliberate over a timeline here but also be opportunistic as we were in prior periods.
So I think we're going to get at it as you guys have seen us do in the past and we'll continue to execute.
Our next question comes from the site of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all Greg if we look at the Government side the guidance for the full year of upper single digits for Government you did 11.5% growth in Q1 and 13.6% in Q2.
So to get to upper single digits for the year that would imply a huge deceleration in Q3 and Q4 somewhere in the order of 3% or 4% year-over-year for those 2 quarters.
Why would you think that is kind of factoring into your guidance? Putting aside the Enterprise side of the business I just think Government -- why is this falling down so much? Does this have to do with narrow banding? Does it have to do with macro? And kind of just understanding that a little better.
And then Ed just I want to understand a little bit more about the FX.
And I heard but I may have misunderstood the $25 million below-the-line expense that shows up in the P&amp;L is that hedging? Is that where the FX impact is? Or is that kind of sprinkled throughout the earnings statement? And how do we account for FX kind of going forward? Ehud on the first part look I just think that we've had fantastic growth obviously records in Q1 and Q2.
We're just being a little bit more tempered.
We know that Q3 as a comp was higher as I mentioned.
We have some incremental headwinds as do many other companies around foreign currency.
I just think we're being cautious.
And in this environment while we're confident of the business and confident as ever in the product portfolio and the underlying drivers it just -- I think we think it makes sense to be a little bit more cautious now.
Research Division</strong> Does FX impact the revenue? Or does it impact this below-the-line kind of...
It's a combination of both.
So if I talk about Q2 we talked about about $20 million of impact to operating margins as a result of the decline largely driven by the euro.
The top line growth impact there was about $30 million and the margin impact was about 20 right? So if you look into Q3 there was also a bottom -- there was also below operating earnings related charges.
You mentioned about $20 million.
That was driven by balance sheet -- the fluctuation in the foreign currency and the net unhedged positions caused about a $20 million impact as we moved for the quarter.
If we move into Q3 I'd say you should expect relatively similar impact and our guidance contemplates that for the operating margin piece.
I'd say the piece below operating earnings the other income expense should be significantly less than that in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> So if I got that right there was a $30 million impact to revenue from FX this quarter $20 million to OpEx? Or to operating margin? That's right.
Operating margin.
Research Division</strong> So that means there was a $10 million gain from OpEx that offset the $30 million part of the $30 million revenue? I'm not sure where you’re going -- we could take it offline in the reconciliation with you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the net impact was $20 million to operating income and $20 million below the line? That's right.
Research Division</strong> And you’re saying next quarter assume another $20 million to operating income most of which comes in the revenue line which is where Greg's conservatism comes from the Government side and then less below the line? That's right.
That's right Ehud.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple other things.
Why are taxes going up? And did you guide 34% to 35% for the back half of the year? Or did you guide that for the full year? And then did you -- I'm not sure if you said how big iDEN was this quarter and what it is in your guidance for Q3.
What was the second part of that question Ehud? Research Division</strong> Taxes.
They were 33% this quarter.
You're guiding 34% to 35%.
And I wasn't sure if that was again for the full year or for next quarter.
And then how big iDEN was.
So the guidance was really for the full year still around 34% to 35%.
So that hasn't changed.
And what we're figuring there too is the R&amp;D tax credit right? So if that does come through it will be at the lower end.
If it doesn't it will likely be at the higher end.
Research Division</strong> But you had a low -- you had a 33.3% this quarter.
So 34% to 35% for the year we're talking about 35% to 36% for Q3 and Q4? I think there were discrete items and there's timing-related items that are driving that.
So I think that’s -- as you forecasted you should forecast something at 34% to 35% for the full year.
So a bit higher in the second half.
And Ehud in terms of iDEN it's in line pretty much with our expectations in terms of the continued decline for the year 2012.
We're now tracking for iDEN to be about $270 million in revenue for the year.
The next question comes from the site of Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a clarification and I'll just ask my follow-on immediately after that.
But for the clarification for the outlook am I correct it does not include acquisition revenues of Psion in your outlook? And then my follow-up question is can you just help investors and us bridge the gap between your strong outlook and results compared to the budgetary constraints that we're seeing and the workforce reductions? We know that the First Responders is a priority but definitely we're seeing when the police and firemen retire the various teams are replacing them with less people rather than more.
Can you just kind of help us understand that? And then on the outside is it just basically it's more sticky business? And if so when we come into a more favorable economy does that just mean Motorola Solutions may not see quite the upside? Or how can we think about -- can’t be heads you win tails you win also.
Also help us understand and connect those.
So in order of your questions.
You're right.
Psion is not included in our second half guidance.
The transaction is not closed yet.
We're anticipating that to be Jim in Q4.
Second we continue to operate under the constraints of austerity if you will with governments across the world.
But interestingly and you've seen the Government post 14% in Q2 our segment our state and local business in particular is really strong.
And I think that's a reflection on we've talked about it before the prioritization of mission-critical public safety the deployment of additional technologies beyond just radios whether it's video surveillance or integrated command-and-control or dispatch software or other kinds of technology deployments that make First Responders more productive.
It's a continued reflection on the high return on investment of what we sell.
Remember with all of this there's no usage associated on a private network as these devices and subscriber units get deployed unlike a cellular system that has per-minute charges.
There is no usage cost at all.
And of course the durability and reliability and long installed base of 10 15 sometimes north of 20 years all lend themselves positively as drivers for First Responders to prioritize this.
I think your last comment is also correct that what we have found with our business overall is that it's stable.
It is sticky and we believe largely sustainable.
And oftentimes our installed base and our incumbency allow us to continue the relationships with clients and allow us the dialogue to add equipment and upgrade and refresh and sell new solutions on top of the relationships and systems we have and we think that's a good position to be in.
The next question comes from the site of Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Gentlemen can you just shed a little bit of light on what you're seeing in Asia? I see 5% growth year-over-year.
It’s probably a little bit lower I guess than I anticipated and I know it's an area of focus for you guys.
But what are you seeing in Asia perhaps as driving a little bit slower growth than what you guys have shed in the past few quarters? Keith I do agree with your comment that our growth in Asia while we talked about kind of mid-single digits for both Enterprise and Government is less than number one what we've been producing in the past and also what we've said was expectations for Asia.
With that being said I also think though the primary drivers as we look at the business was really around the systems and the timing of the systems and project business there as we think about what's going forward.
So China did slow to mid-single digits.
Again we had not seen that kind of growth in China.
We traditionally have expected China to be stronger.
But for the full year we still anticipate that Asia Pac will be double-digit growth and we expect China to be strong double-digit growth for the year.
So we're still very opportunistic and very -- I guess we view Asia still as a strong growth area for us as we look to go forward.
Okay.
Great.
And then finally as you guys exited the quarter were there any changes in the business that you saw in I guess the previous 2 months that give you pause or give you some consideration to your activity going into 3Q? That gives us -- what was the last part? Anything you want to...
That gives you pause going into the third quarter.
Not really no.
As I mentioned earlier I think our visibility has remained reasonably consistent.
We've moderated to adjust for the segment Government being a little bit stronger than we thought anticipating and managing the Enterprise headwinds mainly out of Europe and macroeconomic and with foreign currency.
I mean obviously foreign currency was the one in the last 30 to 45 days where the euro dropped pretty sharply from $1.32 or $1.31 to $1.22.
So we certainly didn't anticipate that.
But that's as Ed talked about the guidance for the second half for Q3 and Q4 assumes the euro at about $1.21.
So we think we've incorporated that in accordingly.
Next we will go to the site of Tim Long with Bank of Montréal.
Two questions if I could.
First on the Enterprise side particularly.
Can you talk a little bit about Windows and the transition to Windows 8 and what do you think that will mean for the Enterprise customer base? Is there a risk that on top of the macro risks there's some potential product transition as Windows develops? And then secondly Greg if you could just -- you mentioned visibility the same but I'm just curious if you could scale for us how with the bigger ramp in Q4 that you're looking for how would you compare your Q3 and your Q4 visibility right now? Does it drop off where you have a much lower confidence in it? Or if you can just scale for us the difference between looking out that extra quarter.
What was the first part of your question Tim? Windows 8 and just impact on Enterprise business.
Yes so we -- our mobile computing portfolio in all products is supported by Microsoft with the exception of our rugged tablet the ET1 which came out with Android.
We did that because the operating system that was required was a touch-based OS and Microsoft is in the middle of transition.
The majority of our Microsoft product is Windows 6.5.3 or Windows Embedded Handheld.
And we’re anxiously enthusiastic about Windows Phone 8.
That's got to get into the market in October and then needs to be incorporated with the appropriate enterprise features enterprise class features that would make it attractive for us.
So we've always been Microsoft.
We've diversified in Android because of the requirements of our clients and the feature set that they need.
I would expect us to continue to engage in both going forward.
But I am cautiously optimistic that we can work more closely with Microsoft than Win Phone 8 and we'll see when it ships and what feature sets in there.
And we'd like to work collaboratively with them on a joint roadmap for clients especially on the deployment of that OS the developer ecosystem and the individual feature sets that required for a durable Enterprise grade set of devices.
Okay.
I guess my question Greg is is there a risk that customers pause spending because they want Windows 8 instead of 6.5? I don't think so.
I don't think so because our customers are different than the consumer.
So they have customized software apps on 6.5 or Windows Embedded.
And I don't think there's a risk of that that we see at this point.
On visibility I've talked about Tim that in any given quarter we have about roughly 80% visibility into that quarter going in.
I would say that remains the same for Q3 and is incorporated into the guidance we've given you here at 3% revenue growth all in and $0.69 to $0.74 per share on EPS.
Okay.
I guess the question -- if it's $0.80 for this quarter what is it for another quarter out? We don't really get into that.
So we're not that [indiscernible] into that.
It drops off a bit right.
Next we will go to the site of Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg I just want to go back to the narrow banding issue.
You say if you take that out you're still growing 11% in Government.
And I was always kind of under the impression that with the sale cycles you have in this business you have just very good visibility.
Is this a business now that given either your R&amp;D investments or otherwise outside of an -- even taking into account let's say the macro concerns you might be able to grow double digits long term? Or is it still kind of mid-single digit growth most of the industry folks have called for? Has anything changed? Or I'm thinking not just about the next quarter 2 or 3 years out whether the revenue opportunity for you guys is changing.
And then on the question just on the buyback given the stocks roughly where you bought back almost $3 billion worth of it is there any reason why you won't continue to be this aggressive? Or is there something on the acquisitions front beyond Psion that you’re maybe thinking about? Yes.
On the Government growth as we said for the remainder -- for the full year we're now expecting Government on an annualized basis in 2012 to be high single digits.
Kulbinder I wouldn't forecast anything beyond that.
I'd like to see things develop and we would watch the developments as a team between now and the remainder of the year and then update you on 2013 at that point in time.
And in terms of buybacks Ed said it well.
Obviously we were aggressive buying back $2.9 billion in the last 12 months.
That reflected 2 things the value of which we thought we would -- that's there in buying back the shares and the sub-optimal excess cash on our balance sheet which required that sense of urgency.
We're pleased that the board's authorized the additional $2 billion.
We'll be opportunistic.
And that will be a key tool in helping us move towards net debt.
We wouldn't get into specific levels of buying at what levels or price points beyond that but we feel well positioned for us to move forward.
Our final question comes from the site of Matthew Hoffman with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> You called out weakness in Europe and iDEN is affecting results.
But I was hoping you could add color around 2 things.
First can you comment on the overall pace of the wireless LAN spending especially your expectation for the second half spending on the category? And second can you comment on whether you're seeing IT managers shifting resources away from the Plymouth [ph] wireless LAN over concrete floors and now really focusing more on the BYOD and the carpeted spaces within the Enterprise too? So Mark and I will tag-team this.
I don't think we see a big shift to BYOD per se.
We do see continued demand for WLAN.
Q2 was down in WLAN for us due to a substantially higher Q2 comp a year ago.
We do very well in the targeted verticals particularly retail and transportation and logistics where we're aligned with great channel reach.
But overall I think that share’s modestly down in WLAN.
I don't think that we've seen any chilling of demand.
We still expect for the full year for it to have solid full year growth and be generally in line with what we expected.
So I don't think anything beyond that.
LLC Research Division</strong> But kind of drilling down on that I think there's a wider expectation Gartner and some other forecasters to see kind of double-digit wireless LAN growth overall.
Maybe this category’s pulling back right now a little bit below the overall wireless LAN growth but prospects gain from here? We actually have a pretty good funnel of engagement around WLAN or managed WLAN networks a lot in retail and in the Enterprise segments.
We still think it will grow double digit but I don't know if it will grow as robustly as it did last year.
I think the whole industry was north of 30% or 35% so it's TBD on that.
I will turn the floor over back to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I'd like to remind everyone the details outlining highlighted items for our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
And the audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on the site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
During this call we made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Such forward looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: future sales and earnings growth included by segment and region; earnings per share future operating margins and leverage improvements; cash flow generation; the amount of other income and expense; future effective tax rates; achievement of net debt position; the timing and ability to repurchase shares under our share repurchase program; ability to pay future dividends; capital allocation framework; expected decline in iDEN; FX impacts; the impact of reallocation of the D Block for public safety use; market share and demand trends for our business and products such as LTE; the timing and impact of acquisition of Psion; new products and solutions introductions.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.
Information about those factors could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can found in this morning's press release on Pages 9 through 22 in Item I-A of our 2011 Annual Report and Form 10-K and the Motorola Solutions and other SEC filings.
Thanks again.
We look forward to speaking with you shortly.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and we ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss third quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President Sales and Field Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our third quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for Q&amp;A.
We have posted our earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials do include a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation for your reference.
It's important that you review these items.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us today.
Q3 was another excellent quarter for Motorola Solutions as we delivered consistent revenue growth strong earnings per share growth expanded operating margins and continued to return capital to shareholders.
This morning we reported third quarter sales of $2.2 billion a 3% increase over Q3 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.72 per share from continuing operations compared to $0.45 per share in the year ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.84 per share compared to $0.66 per share in the third quarter of last year which represents a 27% increase.
For the remainder of this call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Our Government segment revenues increased 12% a record third quarter.
This reflects growth across the segment driven by a combination of factors including core market growth new product introductions international expansion and narrowbanding in the U.S.
Operating margins in Government improved 390 basis points year-over-year to 20.4% due to the strong top line growth favorable sales mix and continued operating leverage as we continue to manage costs.
In our Enterprise segment sales declined 13% from the year ago quarter including a $29 million decrease in iDEN.
This segment continues to face headwinds largely driven by the macroeconomic environment fewer larger deals and anticipated foreign currency pressure.
That said we remain confident in our portfolio and excited about our new product introductions going forward.
I'll now turn it over to Ed to discuss our financial results in more detail.
I'll then return to discuss operational highlights and provide additional commentary and perspective on our business performance.
Thanks Greg.
Q3 was another strong quarter.
Revenue growth was 3% consistent with our total company outlook with Government stronger Enterprise weaker than we anticipated.
Given the difficult compare from the year ago quarter we are pleased with our top line performance.
This growth came despite anticipated foreign currency headwinds of $42 million or approximately 2 percentage points.
We saw another quarter of broad-based revenue growth in our Government segment with record third quarter sales of $1.5 billion an increase of nearly 12% from the prior year.
Operating margins in the Government segment improved 390 basis points from 16.5% to 20.4%.
Strong sales favorable mix and continued cost efficiency drove this improvement.
Enterprise sales declined 13% to $632 million.
Operating margin in the Enterprise segment declined to 12.2% driven in part by sales mix and foreign currency headwinds.
However the largest driver was the sales decline as underlying expenses remained relatively flat on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to earnings.
Earnings from continuing operations were $0.84 per share compared to $0.66 per share a year ago a 27% increase driven by improved operating performance and share repurchases.
Operating expenses were $709 million or 32.9% of revenue which represents an 80 basis point improvement from the year ago quarter.
Overall I'm pleased with our operating leverage improvement.
Operating earnings for the third quarter were $387 million or 18% of sales compared to $359 million or 17.2% in Q3 of 2011.
Going forward we will continue to reinvest in our business and expect to generate returns well in excess of our cost of capital while also improving R&amp;D and SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $13 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $16 million in Q3 2011.
This line item was lower primarily due to gains on investments during the quarter.
Going forward we expect this line item to be a net expense of approximately $20 million to $25 million consistent with our view last quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 35.6% for the quarter.
For the full year 2012 we expect our effective tax rate to be 34% to 35%.
We still expect a cash tax rate of approximately 20% for this year and we expect the tax cash rate to average 20% over the next several years as we utilize available tax credits.
Cash flow from operations was $182 million during the quarter which included the impact of a $72 million pension contribution made in late Q3 rather than early Q4 to reduce pension-related PBGC fees in 2013.
Our year-to-date 2012 contributions to the pension plan were $340 million which satisfies the full year planned funding.
This represents an incremental $170 million of year-to-date contributions in comparison to last year when we had contributed $170 million through the first 3 quarters.
Let me spend a moment on the increase in working capital.
There were 2 main contributors to this increase; first earning inventory balance increased sequentially which was approximately $20 million higher than expected due to softer enterprise demand; and second our receivables balance was approximately $100 million higher sequentially.
This increase was due primarily to linearity in shipments as well as linearity in billings which were more back-end loaded in part due to our Q3 ERP conversion.
Having said that it's important to note that there was no meaningful deterioration in our cash receivable aging during the quarter.
We remain very focused on working capital management.
As you know this is a long-cycle business with significant milestone billings that can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
We remain confident that we will deliver approximately $1 billion in cash flow from operations for full year 2012 consistent with our previous outlook.
We ended the quarter with $3.5 billion in cash and investments and approximately $1.9 billion in debt.
We purchased $308 million in stock during the quarter at an average price of $47.47.
This brings us to over $3.2 billion in share repurchases which is over 70 million shares at an average price of $45.95 since July of last year.
In addition we paid $63 million in dividends in the quarter.
Year-to-date we have returned over $2.3 billion to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
Now turning to our Q4 and full year outlook.
For Q4 we expect sales growth of approximately 6% to 7% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.98 to $1.03 from continuing operations based on our Q3 ending share count.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q4 of 2011 of $0.87 per share.
Consistent with prior quarters this outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expense of approximately $0.13 per share and items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
We are increasing our full year sales outlook to 6% to 6.5% to reflect the recently completed Psion transaction with approximately $60 million in revenue in Q4.
This transaction is expected to negatively impact Q4 EPS by $0.02 per share which includes transaction-related fees and purchase accounting adjustments and is reflected in the guidance for the quarter.
I'll now turn it back over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Ed thanks.
In our Government sales -- segment sales for the quarter were $1.5 billion a 12% increase of Q3 2011.
We saw growth across the entire product portfolio and in North America Latin America and EMEA.
Profitability also improved significantly with operating earnings growing to 20.4% of sales compared to 16.5% in Q3 last year.
We saw double-digit growth in both systems and radio devices.
Safety and security remains a priority among governments and funding for mission-critical systems continues to reflect this priority.
This marks the 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in our Government segment which demonstrates the priority that mission-critical communications receives in various budget conditions.
State and local governments continue to face budget choices but according to a recent National League of City survey a majority of financial officers believe their cities are better able to meet fiscal needs and nearly half reported increased expenditures on public safety.
Many of the existing public safety systems have been in use for decades and will need to be replaced with next-generation digital systems.
However these transitions will take place over years and on the time lines our individual customers want rather than forced migrations.
This underscores the importance of our solutions which are backwards-compatible and forward-migratable.
Customers choosing to invest in new digital systems get enhanced features such as voice clarity text messaging and GPS.
And with digital's more efficient use of spectrum additional channels means new users can be added to a system.
New technology also helps first responder do their jobs better and more efficiently.
For example our tactical incident command feature replaces traditional voice roll calls with accountability functions embedded in the radio system.
Using this feature commanders can automatically keep track of first responders on-scene.
The APX roll-call function provides an update on each first responder's radio and when a critical situation arises the large emergency button activates a mayday alarm signaling a first responder in distress.
Another example of a cost-saving feature with many of our newer systems is that changes to radios can be programmed remotely saving valuable time and resources previously required to perform field service on the equipment in the field.
We continue to expand our industry-leading portfolio to reach new markets and incremental users.
We extended our ASTRO system to include a refreshed conventional option a system type that is commonly deployed in rural communities.
And the new APX 4500 is a vehicle mobile radio designed for public works utilities and rural public safety.
New form factors also make radio solutions more compelling to new and different users like the new APX 3000 designed for covert operations.
This radio helps undercover officers use a high-powered concealed radio while maintaining mission-critical communications.
Or the MOTOTRBO SL Series an ultrathin and lightweight portable radio designed for service and hospitality industries.
We now have over 24 different models on our APX radio platform and this year we've added 15 new models to the MOTOTRBO family.
Platforming helps accelerate new product introductions drive cost efficiencies and by tiering features and pricing we can compete in all areas from small rural agencies to large cities and from local to regional users.
I'd like to also spend a moment -- briefly to talk about the status of narrowbanding in the U.S.
As you may know the FCC established a VHF and UHF narrowband requirement nearly a decade ago that applies to approximately 30% of the installed base in the U.S.
Most of these public safety users have spent years preparing for the January 2013 deadline.
Some communities are now finishing their narrowbanding projects although more than 50 waivers have been requested by smaller jurisdictions and large metro areas many of which have outlined the significant effort that's remaining for them.
The FCC has granted extensions to several applicants ranging from several months to over 3 years.
And while narrowbanding is a requirement impacting a portion of the market in the U.S.
we continue to see solid international growth driven by the compelling features and applications that our new digital solutions offer globally.
Our professional and commercial radio portfolio continues a multi-quarter trend of outstanding performance with solid double-digit growth in Q3.
With over 2 million devices shipped the MOTOTRBO portfolio clearly leads the market as it transitions to digital.
In fact almost half of our professional and commercial revenues in 2012 have come from digital products but there's still a significant opportunity ahead of us as the global installed base of about 40 million PCR radios is still over 90% analog.
Growth in Government was across both products and services.
Services represents almost 30% of segment revenues and we're currently executing on more than 700 installation and integration contracts in North America alone.
Once these networks are deployed we provide support services to these customers as well given the mission-critical nature of the systems.
As an example in North America we have over 3 000 support contracts with government customers.
During the quarter we had several terrific new service wins including an agreement with the state of Ohio valued at $80 million over 14 years a $26 million Prince George’s County in Maryland contract for 5 years and a $14 million agreement with the City of Phoenix for 6 years.
Revenues are recognized over the life of these contracts.
Also as public safety IP Networks become more complex we're working with customers to create enhanced services offerings like the $17 million agreement with York County in South Carolina which is a comprehensive lifecycle services contract where we'll upgrade maintain and monitor all of their network components including third-party equipment for 7 years.
Predictable fixed-fee arrangements like these help customers improve their total cost of ownership avoid budget surprises and ensures that they have our latest system features during the life of the contract.
Now moving on to the Enterprise segment.
Sales in the Enterprise segment were 3 -- $632 million a 13% decline from Q3 of 2011.
Operating earnings were 12.2% of sales compared to 18.6% last year.
Despite fewer large deals in the quarter we're encouraged by continued dialogues and proposal activity among large customers planning for a technology refresh.
I'm also encouraged by our backlog levels and traditional run rate business.
Favorable growth drivers also remain including increasing worker mobility drive for operational efficiencies demand for wireless access and expansion products.
This quarter we announced the MC67 the industry's first rugged mobile computing handheld to incorporate a dual core OMAP processor with support for the latest generation of Microsoft Windows-embedded handheld.
The MC67 builds on the success of over 600 000 MC55 and 65 enterprise mobile computers that are previously deployed one of the industry's most field-proven platforms.
The compact MC67 supports bandwidth-intensive applications for data capture of high-resolution images concurrent voice and data communications location-based services and other features for field service field sales and direct delivery.
We also introduced the WAN version of the ET1 tablet for mobile task workers.
Our ET1 industrial tablet has been enhanced with dual-mode WAN to bring the go-anywhere familiarity to a true enterprise-class device with enhanced durability security and hot-swappable batteries for multi-shift use.
While our core focus remains in rugged mobile computing designed for line workers we've also been investing in an important expansion category to provide devices for new users like retail sales associates and customer service personnel.
For example we've received a terrific customer feedback on the MC40 our first enterprise mobile computer with a full touch screen interface and a task-specific device our Smart Badge 1 product.
These products are designed to perform tasks like scanning an item to check price and availability reviewing product specifications and connecting managers and other employees with push-to-talk.
The MC40 also enables mobile point of sale.
Both of these products are now scheduled to begin shipping this quarter.
I'm also excited that we recently closed the acquisition of Psion.
This investment strengthens our position in rugged mobile computing and bolsters our strategic position in important industrial segments like manufacturing warehousing ports and cold storage.
Together with the Psion team we'll be better positioned with improved scale reach and leadership in the enterprise rugged mobile computing market.
One area of our Enterprise portfolio that saw continued growth was advanced data capture as favorable market trends such as the conversion to 2D imaging helped drive demand.
This year we've also seen the emergence of a new driver for our data capture business as retailers that previously didn't use bar codes now adopt scanners at the score -- store level to implement mobile coupons and customer loyalty programs.
Some interesting new places where you'll now see these applications include large restaurant chains and coffee companies.
Now turning to a regional sales view for the company.
North America grew by 9% while we saw declines in the other regions Asia 2%; EMEA 3%; and in Latin America a 9% decline although that was entirely driven by iDEN.
Overall in our Government segment we had growth across all regions except in Asia where sales were relatively flat.
The North America regions saw exceptional growth in Government with double-digit growth.
Sales declined across all geographies in our Enterprise segment.
This past quarter we were recognized as the Official Mission-Critical Communications Provider of both national political conventions.
Events like these bring together a diverse set of agencies from federal state and local levels.
In Tampa and in Charlotte our interoperable solutions met the challenges of instant and seamless communications providing real-time information to ensure that conventions were safe for thousands of delegates and the city's populations at large.
I'm also proud of our team for the recognition we recently received from Corporate Responsibility Magazine as a Top 10 Best Corporate Citizen in the information technology sector.
In closing Q3 was another excellent quarter for us with consistent revenue growth strong earnings growth expanded operating margins and continued return of capital to shareholders.
The fundamental demand drivers for our business remain solid and we continue to invest and innovate for the future.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator please remind our callers how they may ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the site of Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the evolution of your operating expenses.
They were down $20 million sequentially and like $2 million year-on-year.
I was wondering first if currency played a significant role in there.
And then if you can give us as much visibility as you can on what other parts moved and how much of that is sustainable or more of a one-off? And then when we look into next year as you integrate Psion I would assume that there would be a high level of operational synergies there and so I'm wondering how it's going to impact directionally your OpEx.
And then more broadly if you could give us some color on how you're managing OpEx at the moment on a day-to-day basis if you have ongoing cost optimization program then and how you're thinking about operating costs reallocation as the time goes? Okay so there was -- you snuck in a bunch of questions in there Pierre.
I think we got most of them and if not we'll come back to you.
On the costs in the quarter FX had a slight impact as we talked about.
Top line was $42 million of FX impact.
At the spending line it was a few million dollars probably $4 million or $5 million that offset that as a benefit.
So the bottom line when we guided at the beginning of the quarter really the net impact on earnings was effectively in line with what we expected.
The top line was a bit higher than we expected.
Remember we talked about $35 million of impact on the top line.
So costs from FX relatively minor in the quarter and they were relatively stable which is very much in line with the way we've talked to you about our spending that we're going to -- the spending may remain relatively stable but we've done a lot of work to ensure that we're spending it in the right place.
In other words taking down certain areas that are not as critical and ramping up where we think we need to and from an innovation perspective and from a go-to-market perspective so savings really on the G&amp;A side.
So we'll continue to go after that.
Pierre in relates -- as it relates to Psion as we mentioned we expect $60 million -- approximately $60 million of revenue in Q4.
The guidance we're giving you of $0.98 to $1.03 EPS in Q4 also obviously incorporates Psion which is probably a negative $0.02 in Q4 which includes the transaction fees and purchase accounting adjustments.
Going forward we're excited about the ability to integrate Psion into the enterprise mobile computing product group.
There will be synergies but nothing we're going to share at this point.
I think we'll incorporate that and give you a little bit more color in the January earnings call.
And as it relates to operating expense management we as a team we're pleased with what we got done in Q3.
We felt we did a pretty effective job around disciplined cost management.
Now that said we will continue to invest where we need to in R&amp;D and maybe sales coverage and other areas where we think warrant the investment.
But having said that we will watch operating expenses carefully and prudently going into next year and we will philosophically look for R&amp;D and SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to continue to improve over time.
Did that get everything that you asked Pierre? LLC.
Research Division</strong> I think you got absolutely everything.
We'll go next to the site of Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question Greg on the narrowbanding effect.
I think last quarter you said it was 2 to 3 points of growth.
I missed whether you mentioned what the impact has been year to date.
And I guess just on a wider comment what confidence can you give us as we're getting closer to '13 that you're not borrowing sales from next year on the Government side given you are just so much above the normalized revenue growth rate in that business? Yes and Kulbinder so -- again first of all when we give you what we think around growth for the quarter it's an estimate.
But this quarter for Q3 we think of the 12% Government growth approximately 3% of that was narrowbanding driven.
Remember as I mentioned earlier narrowbanding for UHF VHF is 30% of the installed base in terms of kind of proportionately sizing it.
As I mentioned there's 50 -- currently 50-plus waivers that are filed with the SEC where customers will go beyond the January 2013 deadline.
My view is that number will go up and many of these waivers will be granted which my view means it won't necessarily be a cliff as we go from 2012 to 2013.
I think kind of moving back Kulbinder there's no question narrowbanding helps.
However more broadly the overall demand drivers for the business new features better efficiency the aging of the installed base and quite frankly our Government growth outside of the U.S.
which has been pretty robust we think that'll continue.
That's obviously incorporated in the 6% to 7% growth for Q4 but we expect Government to perform -- continue to expect strong almost double-digit performance in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Great and just one other question on the margins in Government.
As you hit these record highs I guess is there anything temporary in that just mix-wise that's driving it or is this just maybe the effect of the portfolio introduction that you guys have been introducing over the last year coming through? I think it's a combination Kulbinder.
I think part of it is the portfolio where we have deepened and broadened both the APX and TETRA product portfolio which expands the addressable market available to us and makes us more competitive at different price points.
I also think that -- it's my sense that state and local governments and -- while not in great shape of course are incrementally improving.
And as I mentioned earlier we're getting just a little bit more positive indications from our customers that they're willing to spend a little bit more on public safety.
And we've always said quarter in and quarter out that we think it remains a very high priority within these budgets and that not all government spending is equal and I think our results reflect that.
And we'll go next to the site of Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Question for you on LTE and as you look at it onto the future you guys have previously said that you expect the revenue not to be material until 2014.
Has anything changed in the U.S.
or abroad that will perhaps impact your thoughts there or if you can provide any color on your thoughts on LTE as we look out now and into the future? So I think that FirstNet obviously has been formed.
They had their first board meeting in the end -- at the end of September.
I think that process has to unfold and there's a lot of work to be determined there by FirstNet.
That said we feel very well positioned in LTE broadly given the investments we made in previous periods from a product portfolio standpoint.
I'd also remind you that I -- this is clearly not just a U.S.
opportunity it's a global opportunity.
We've mentioned previously that we think LTE as we kind of look out is probably no more than $100 million of revenue in the second half of 2013.
I think the large dimension of that $100 million will be more globally derived than U.S.
derived the Middle East being a particular attractive area for discussion.
But just going back to FirstNet I think they're going to work hard.
And I also think I'm confident that they will engage the public safety users in the states and put a high prioritization around the users feature set for public safety but that'll take several months and into 2013 to play out.
But in the meantime we continue to invest and I think we're well positioned and of course we're also well positioned with our strategic partner Ericsson.
And we'll go next to the site of Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg I wondered if you can give us the backlog numbers for the quarter.
And Ed when you referenced the $1 billion of operating cash flow this year was that a GAAP number or was that excluding the pension contribution? Backlog Tavis was relatively flat sequentially essentially flat for both Government and Enterprise excluding iDEN.
Pretty pleased with it.
Can we give the figure? Yes.
It's about $5.9 billion.
So effectively flat.
And on the operating cash flow Tavis it's $1 billion operating cash flow that's all in.
So it includes the pension contributions.
And the only commentary that we made really during the call was to kind of people are looking at $1 billion of cash flow you divide by 4 you might expect on a straight-line basis by quarter it'd be about $250 million.
We're a bit lower than that $182 million as we mentioned really driven by -- primarily by the acceleration of that one pension payment of $72 million into Q3 a few weeks early to save some PBGC fees in '13.
AR was elevated a bit as was inventory.
But really as we mentioned it's really a timing-related item and we expect to close that gap and again remain confident at $1 billion for the full year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so just to make sure my numbers are correct that would presume somewhere very close to $500 million for the fourth quarter? That's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question within your Government segment remind me how big a percentage the private commercial radio is.
And is that growing faster than the Government segment as a whole right now? I don't know that we've talked to the sizing of that.
I think we've shown pie charts in the past but I would say it's growing I'd say at relatively comparable rates with the rest.
That's correct.
Yes.
And we'll go next to the site of Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg despite some of the weakness in Enterprise you did mention you're encouraged by the backlog.
So any commentary on that in terms of spending expectations for Q4? Well so -- I mean obviously Enterprise was weaker than we thought.
But that said if you normalize for foreign exchange which was headwinds of about 3% and iDEN which declined 4% of the 13% we're at about a 6% or 6.5% decline for Enterprise.
Still not what we'd like it to be but normalized for foreign exchange and iDEN.
I think that there's fewer larger deals in terms of the year-over-year compare at the moment but the discussions the engagement especially in the core verticals that we have give us reasonable confidence and comfort into the guidance that we're giving you for Q4.
I think that as we think about the full year Craig we think that Government segment on an annual basis will be double digit and Enterprise all in for the full year will be mid-single digit decline but that also obviously includes the planned-for decline in iDEN.
And I like the fact that [indiscernible] and other people have some significantly new products coming out this quarter and next quarter.
So while we're not pleased with it clearly we should be able to do better I think we're managing it okay and we'll keep a close eye on it.
But obviously macroeconomic headwinds impact more the Enterprise segment than our Government public safety segment.
We'll keep an eye on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay if I could have a follow-up for Ed.
The company continues to be aggressive in returning cash through buybacks as well as the dividend.
But on the dividend front you do have a lower payout than the overall market.
I'm just curious to get your thoughts in terms of how you view that longer term.
Is that an opportunity to kind of true up? And where do you stand in the dividend on a go-forward basis? That's something that we look at perpetually Craig.
And as I've talked about in the past that's something we -- as we look at that we look at that more on an annual basis but as all part of the capital allocation strategy.
We outlined a 25% to capital expenditures 30% to dividend and 45% to that flexible combination of share repurchase or acquisitions.
So that's where our current thinking is but we'll continue to look at that over time to make sure that that fits with our strategies with acquisitions and the other elements of that allocation.
And we'll go next to the site of Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> When we look at strategically long-term your big picture I believe earlier this year you laid out some goals which I think was kind of sales growth of long term about 5% to 8%.
And I believe that was for more than just this year.
It's for multiple years.
And maybe I've misspoken on that but I think that was the case.
And if so given the macro and climate plus the LTE D Block changes and all these waivers going on should that be reassessed or are other areas picking up to make it still in that confidence range? I think the short answer Jim is -- well first of all we're always going to look at it and continually reassess it periodically.
But at this point I don't see a need for that -- those kind of goalposts long-term targets to change at this point.
The dimensions may change obviously.
I think just picking up on LTE I think LTE for us more near term will be more of an international contributor than a domestic U.S.
contributor which is different perhaps than what we thought several quarters ago.
But in the main I think we should be able to with the portfolio and the segments to be able to drive reasonable consistent top line growth.
And whatever that growth rate is then commensurately keep the P&amp;L in shape where there's good operating leverage which was -- which came through really well in Q3 with operating earnings growing 8% and revenue growing 3% and then earnings per share of course given the significant repurchase growing at 27%.
So it's all about growing the business but it's also for us all about operating leverage and investing capital with high return on invested capital to ensure a strong and superior return for shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up would be on the M&amp;A front Psion seems like a great natural fit there and a lot of synergies.
Are there a lot more companies out there on the M&amp;A front? How robust is your pipeline and any changes in that given the recent economic uncertainty? Are more companies entering the pipeline or are valuations adjusting quick enough or kind of slower? How can we think about the acquisition M&amp;A pipeline? Thanks Jim.
I don't think -- I think the funnel around acquisitions for us and things to evaluate remains pretty constant.
To your point some valuations are getting a little bit more attractive.
But at the end of the day I think we're pretty disciplined around this and we're certainly not going to buy things just because we have money in our wallet.
It's got to be a high strategic fit a strong return on invested capital.
We have to have the ability to execute and integrate the acquisition.
Psion's ideal because it's in a space of mobile computing that we play and lead.
And at the end of the day whatever we acquire has to have a very very high cultural compatibility quotient.
Symbol had it Psion has it.
But we -- I would say it's a pretty steady view and stream of evaluations but I don't think our thinking around acquisitions have changed in the last few quarters just because of the macroeconomics.
It remains pretty consistent.
And we'll go next to the site of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Greg could you spend a little bit more time talking about what is happening in the Enterprise side of the business.
I mean the x-iDEN revenue number last year was plus -- last quarter was plus 5%.
Now you're talking normalized down mid-single digits.
Obviously the macro isn't great but has it deteriorated that much? What are some of the drivers across the different regions that are hurting growth there? Yes Jeff.
So again 13% year-over-year decline normalized for FX that takes it to about a 10% decline.
You back out the $29 million iDEN decline -- and forgive me I'm just doing the formula here it takes us to about a negative 6% to 6.5% growth for the quarter.
Remember the previous compare was robust in Enterprise it was up 13%.
And I think at the end of the day it is really just fewer deals -- we also -- by the way one other thing we are no longer pursuing as aggressively as we were what I would call low-end WLAN sales in certain parts of Asia where we were ringing the bell on top line revenue but the commensurate margin or profitability was more challenging.
We've chosen to walk away from that and not compete.
So we're not going to pursue revenue for revenue's sake.
That was a contributor in the decline of our WLAN business.
So those are kind of the ingredients.
Mobile computing is down.
At the end of the day we believe we're for the most part holding share which is really important in these times.
And as I mentioned given the refresh in a number of new products in the Enterprise portfolio we'll watch it closely but we think we will be able to come back a bit and start to grow again.
Jeff just a little clarity.
When Greg mentioned earlier that he felt optimistic about the funnel when you think about regional clarity Latin America I would remind you is up in Enterprise x iDEN.
North America there was 2 very large deals in the previous year.
Absent those 2 large deals it's mid- to high-single digit growth.
EMEA is primarily due to FX so given a comparable of approximately 20% in the prior year we're very pleased with the performance in EMEA.
And then in Asia Pacific as Greg just mentioned absent or normalized for the business or the product area that we decided not to pursue in China Asia-Pac is also a high-single digit growth in Enterprise.
And as we look forward to the fourth quarter and the guidance that we gave you Enterprise growth in fourth quarter is mid-single digit growth.
So I think that while we're not proud of 13% decline I think that's why we're speaking that we're also reasonably optimistic about where we are today.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Ed on a follow-up could you remind us how much of your buyback you have left? I think we've done 3-point -- I think we have $1.8 billion left of the last authorization so about $1.8 billion.
We're going to go on to Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I know we did a lot of math on this iDEN and that seems to be a lot of the decline on a sequential basis as well I mean maybe -- I apologize if you mentioned this before but it looks like iDEN was down over 50% sequentially.
So it seems like it's almost pretty much out of the run rate and not going to impact Enterprise going forward anywhere near the extent that it did in the past.
So we should actually see a softening effect in Enterprise going into next year.
I just want to make sure that that math is right I got a number somewhere in the mid-30s for where iDEN is down to.
So on iDEN Hudie it declined $29 million in Q3.
Research Division</strong> That's a year-over-year example though right? It is.
We also talked on an annual basis that we thought it would be approximately $270 million for the full year of 2012.
I think it's within the range of still being that so -- and I think for the quarter in Q4 it's...
Something a little bit less than the $29 million is what we're thinking.
Something in the lower 20s.
Research Division</strong> $20 million for Q3? For Q4.
For Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I'm right.
So basically it becomes smaller.
It becomes a smaller piece but the trajectory of it Hudie as we talked about it it's somewhat of a similar trajectory is what we're thinking into 2013.
But we'll give you more specifics on that in the next quarter's release.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's actually very helpful.
There was a story out and I don't know if you can comment on that but it was interesting a day or 2 ago about the NS -- the deal in Scandinavia perhaps being reopened and someone looking into it or someone checked into it.
I wondered if you could comment on that and is there any validity to that? Clearly there isn't.
But I mean how should we look at that story and if you've seen it? Yes Hudie this is Mark.
I think as you said there was a story out where a competitor or a potential competitor in Norway had complained about the procurement process of the contract transfer from NSN that you're aware of to Motorola.
That request is directed at DNK who is the customer in Norway.
The customer feels very compelled with the process that they followed and the legal aspects that they looked at.
We're obviously -- we're a piece of the contract before now we've taken on a prime contract responsibility.
So we feel confident that we'll continue to execute on the contract and moving forward and we'll let the process run its course in Norway with the customer.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then back to the Enterprise and I don't mean to beat a dead horse on this but clearly macro has a lot to do with the decline going on right now.
How do you tell the difference between a cyclical and a secular issue with Enterprise? Home Depot is a huge account for you now and it was a big win and when you walk in there they all have Motorola handsets and it's a great innovative system.
But then you walk across the street to Lowe's and they're using iPhones now.
How did -- did you compete for that Lowe's business or were you not allowed to compete because you were so big with Home Depot? And should we -- how should we be kind of viewing what Lowe's did with respect to how this business proceeds going forward? So I think Hudie and Mark and I will probably tag team this but a couple of indications of the difference between cyclical and structural are: one backlog; and two the forward-looking funnel and the degree of discussion and engagement prospectively that we have with customers.
Now I won't get into the detail per se.
You're right Home Depot is a great account Microsoft orientation.
We worked with them on several -- for several years.
Lowe's chose a different path.
I think that my view is oftentimes whether it's Pepsi and Coke or McDonald's and Burger King or Home Depot and Lowe's perhaps part of that decision was incorporated that if one company is going with one vendor maybe somebody should consider going with another.
That said we watch closely folks like Apple and how visible they are or what degree of engagement they have with customers in the Enterprise.
Remember for us -- I know you know this Hudie our sweet spot is the industrial rugged mobile computing.
So we're doing the heavy lifting the blue collar the warehouse the back office.
Yes we go into the store of course like a Home Depot.
But we're going into a store with a rugged application with a Microsoft orientation with ubiquitous push-to-talk and customized applications and a durability factor with the device that's enterprise grade versus consumer.
We will continue to watch more anecdotally.
I mean Apple continues to -- we see anecdotal evidence of those conversations with certain Enterprise customers but it's more TBD.
We feel overall pretty solid about our position.
We'll continue to invest in it and we'll watch to ensure that we're not just breathing our own fumes here on cyclical versus structural.
Just a quick add too is that we did compete for the business.
Obviously we don't want to lose any piece of the business.
But I would just add that Lowe's is still a very strong customer for us.
While Apple did go throughout the store associates with the units that you just mentioned that you see when you go in the store we still do the wireless LAN network for them we still do other aspects and we continue to work very closely with Lowe's just as we did with all of our customers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Can you just give a quick update on the Android units and your conversion to Android? Is that just a part of the portfolio or will you be keeping both Windows and Android going? I think you'll see us do both.
I mean obviously the installed base is overwhelmingly Microsoft.
Windows 8 -- by the way I should have mentioned Windows 8 too.
I think that that is part of the pause in Enterprise spending in part.
I can't give you a quantifiable number but as Windows 8 comes closer I think some customers wait to see what it's about and its affordability and how we incorporate it in our portfolio.
Hudie we'll continue to do both Android and Microsoft.
We're in very good strategic discussions with Microsoft at the highest levels.
And we will look to incorporate in the future some devices around Windows 8 that'll support the customized apps and do comprehensive security and VPN support and integrate and optimize voice over WiFi and enterprise WLAN so we'll do both.
And we'll go next to the site of Matthew Hoffman with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Another narrowbanding question.
If I'm reading your comments correctly compared to the 3 points of growth you estimate you got in the Government business this quarter next year in 2013 we should expect the effect of narrowbanding to be lower because of the wind down of the mandate's effect.
But there are 50 municipalities out there looking for extensions so it should be greater than 0.
Is that the right way to frame that argument out? And then I'll have a follow-up.
Basically yes Matthew.
It'll be greater than 0 given the 50-plus and there very well be more waivers between now and the end of the year.
So yes that's probably the right way to frame it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Then can you help us think about the 50 relative to the overall addressable opportunity within the mandate so we can -- help us size that? I can't because I don't -- I can't dimensionalize or quantify the 50 or size it and the mix between rural and major metro.
Maybe on the next earnings call as we exit 2012 and look forward in '13 we'll have a better appreciation of framing it and quantifying it.
Matthew just a couple of -- just to give you a little bit more color on that to maybe make you feel you a little more comfortable.
Remind that Greg made in his comments that the narrowbanding mandate is just 30% of the user base.
So even when you're talking about the residual you still got the rest of the population of users in North America.
I would also remind you that the narrowbanding mandate is not an international phenomenon.
And when you look at our Government growth internationally year-to-date we're 20-plus percent in Latin America and mid- to high-single digits in Europe and in Asia.
So that's why we say if you think about the falloff from narrowbanding certainly it's going to impact the growth in North America but we still are seeing very strong growth internationally and in North America as a result of new product introductions all of our offerings and the benefits that we provide to our customers.
LLC Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
One last one a housekeeper.
Wireless LAN I didn't hear you call it out on the Enterprise side.
Can you just fill us in on the trends there in the wireless LAN business? Wireless LAN declined for us year-over-year.
I think I mentioned earlier in part because we chose not to pursue some lower-priced lower-margin low access point opportunities primarily in Asia actually mainly in China.
But it did decline for us year-over-year and we would look for that to improve going forward.
And we'll go next to the site of Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research.
When you look at your platform investments you talked about Windows and Android but could you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about investments into app developments themselves potential software to be more vertically integrated with your customers? So 2 things in that regard Ben.
We do work closely with our independent software vendors to ensure that vertically specific apps are customized whether it's retail or transportation logistics.
In some very large accounts we have some of those software app people doing that customization with the Motorola badge.
The other things around app development is the acquisition we made of Rhomobile or RhoElements.
And the notion is that we over time provide an HTML5 tool kit an SDK if you will where app developers write to that that's agnostic.
It's indifferent to whether it's Windows 8 Android 4.0 or iOS.
So we have a common tool kit that's written at the browser level that's then supported irrespective of the underlying operating system.
So we're really doing it on 2 levels: working customized apps organically internally and with ISV partners today Microsoft and Android; and investing in a software element that can simplify the portability of applications and lower the costs and make it more ubiquitous over multiple operating systems.
That's the twofold strategy we're pursuing.
Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up you look at Psion you gave us the 4Q run rate.
Could you give us an idea on the annual run rate kind of the margin profile of that business and the headcount? And then where's the onshore offshore cash stand at the end of 3Q? So a couple of things.
First of all on the onshore offshore I think the cash balance was somewhere in the mid-30s so kind of consistent with where you'd expect $3.5 billion in total.
On the Psion business I think I'd keep it very high level.
I did talk about the impact for the fourth quarter being a negative $0.02 per share.
Really coming in the business is roughly breakeven x those purchase accounting and transaction-related fees that are out there related to that transaction.
Going forward you would expect that we will drive to improve that -- the earnings of that business such that as we've talked about previously it will be accretive on a non-GAAP basis in 2013.
And on a non -- on a GAAP basis it should be accretive in 2014.
So the plan is definitely to improve the profitability of that business such that the return on invested capital that we assumed on that business when we acquired it comes to fruition.
And the headcount Ben is approximately 800 people.
And we'll take our last question from the site of Blaine Carroll with Avian Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all on the narrowbanding is there any incentive for the 70% that don't need to move to that 12.5 kilohertz? Is there any benefit for them to move to it I mean could that extend the narrowbanding process as well? Certainly.
I think when we talked about the growth that's occurring certainly we talked about the contributor of narrowbanding.
But we also talked a lot -- when you think about double-digit growth and we said narrowbanding and double-digit in the U.S.
and narrowbanding contributing to 3% of our overall growth we talked a lot about the aspect of moving from analog to digital and the new features the better efficiency that's there the ability to add more users because you're spectrum efficient when you do that.
The fact that a number of the 70% if you will which was your question are aging infrastructures they need to upgrade anyway so they're attracted to the digital aspects of the system.
So that again is a big explanation of why we're getting growth way beyond just narrowbanding.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there's a new product out that's predominantly or prominently displayed on your website the HC1 headset computer.
I'm wondering if you could talk about that device and what your sort of prospects are for that.
Yes I think that's really much more of a niche device.
It's got a high ASP price point.
And I think you're looking -- you're referring to the helmet computer device.
I think it's -- I love the fact that we have it.
It's a small addressable market and I would look to it to be more niche application than broad based.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any thoughts on -- this to me looks like that Google glass application.
Any thoughts of moving it over into that space or is this just a...
No I think this is more of a demonstration of the innovation capabilities and where we have a very unique set of requirements for clients we'll sell it in kind but I don't think it's -- it's more representative of the art of the possible and for very unique circumstances to fill that need but I wouldn't look at that product as expecting any broad-based deployment.
And I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
I'd like to remind everyone that details outlined and the highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our Investor Relations site.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on the site.
During this call we've made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: future sales and earnings growth included by segment and region; earnings per share outlook; cash flow generation; the amount of other income and expense; future effective tax rates and cash tax rates; future pension funding requirements and PBGC fees; the impact of the acquisition of Psion including revenues and EPS; the financial impact of reinvesting in our business; new products and solutions introductions; future operating margins and leverage improvements; our future dividends; capital allocation framework; expected decline in iDEN; market share and demand trends for our businesses and products such as LTE; and the impact of narrowbanding.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about these factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 9 through 22 in Item 1-A of our 2011 Annual Report and Form 10-K in Motorola Solutions' and other SEC filings.
Thanks.
We look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions' Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss fourth quarter and full year results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our fourth quarter results along with commentary and Mark will join us for the Q&amp;A session.
Earlier this morning we posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
It's important to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Q4 was another great quarter for Motorola Solutions.
These quarterly results capped another very strong year for our company.
2012 marked a number of key accomplishments: solid sales growth operating earnings expansion and double-digit EPS growth strong cash flow and significant capital return to our shareholders.
Q4 highlights included record sales and operating earnings continued leadership and innovation with new product launches and the acquisition of Psion.
This morning we reported fourth quarter sales of $2.4 billion an increase of 6% from Q4 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings from continuing operations were $1.18 per share compared to $0.54 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing ops were $1.10 per share compared to $0.87 per share in Q4 of last year a 26% increase.
For the full year we posted revenue growth of approximately 6% while increasing non-GAAP operating earnings by 9%.
For the remainder of the call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Our Government business revenues increased 10% for the quarter.
We saw strength across the portfolio driven by double-digit growth in ASTRO and TETRA.
Government sales increased 12% for the full year.
Our growth was driven by a number of factors including the analog-to-digital transition aging public safety infrastructure U.S.
narrowbanding and our broadest and most competitive portfolio ever.
In our Enterprise business sales decreased 3% from the year-ago quarter including the anticipated decline in iDEN.
On a full year basis Enterprise revenue declined 5% as many large customers postponed deployments in the face of soft economic conditions and uncertainty.
We do believe that the challenges in this segment were more cyclical than structural.
I'll now turn it over to Ed to discuss our financial results in more detail then I'll return to discuss operational highlights and provide additional thoughts on our business performance.
Thanks Greg.
Q4 sales grew 6% in line with our expectations.
This marks yet another quarter of improved operating leverage as our disciplined cost management and targeted investments continued to yield operating margin expansion.
On a full year basis revenue grew 6% to $8.7 billion while operating earnings as a percent of revenue was 17.3%.
This represents a 9% increase in operating earnings from 2011.
EPS in the fourth quarter was $1.10 which represents a 26% increase.
For the full year we delivered a 23% increase in earnings per share.
In Government we continue to see robust growth as fourth quarter sales totaled $1.7 billion an increase of 10% from the prior quarter.
2012 full year Government revenues grew 12% to $6 billion.
Sales for the Enterprise business decreased by 3% to $733 million in Q4.
Excluding the impact of the Psion acquisition Q4 revenues declined 12%.
For the full year 2012 the Enterprise business posted revenues of $2.7 billion declining 5% year-over-year.
This decline was driven by the macroeconomic environment and constrained IT spend; fewer large deals in areas that were strong last year such as transportation and logistics; and unfavorable FX.
Operating expenses were $761 million or 31.2% of revenue which represents a 30-basis-point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
Our operating earnings for the fourth quarter were $476 million or 19.5% of sales compared to $444 million or 19.3% in Q4 2011.
I am pleased with our quarterly year-over-year improvement as well as our full year performance as we grew 2012 operating earnings by 9%.
This improvement was achieved despite approximately $50 million in incremental U.S.
annual pension expense in 2012.
Our teams continue to drive profitable growth by making the critical investments required to grow the business while exercising disciplined cost management.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $16 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $9 million in Q4 of 2011.
Our effective tax rate was approximately 32% for the quarter.
This was lower than expected due primarily to true-ups of prior year taxes based on the recent filing of the U.S.
income tax return resulting in approximately $0.04 of additional EPS in Q4.
The cash tax rate was again below 20% for the year as we continue to utilize available tax credits on our balance sheet.
We expect the remaining tax credits to contribute to an average cash tax rate of approximately 20% for the next several years.
I'm extremely pleased with our execution on delivering cash flow for the quarter.
Cash flow from operations was $564 million this quarter.
This was driven by strong net income and improved working capital management across the board.
This includes an improvement in days sales outstanding and inventory turns from Q3.
For the full year we generated operating cash flow of $1.1 billion which includes $340 million of contributions to the U.S.
pension plan.
We ended the quarter with $3.6 billion in cash and investments and $1.9 billion in debt.
During Q4 we repurchased $326 million of stock which brought us to $2.4 billion or nearly 50 million shares for the year.
In the first 6 quarters of the plan we repurchased $3.5 billion or 76 million shares at an average price of $46.57.
This means we've reduced our net share count by 20% over this period.
In addition we paid $73 million in dividends during the quarter and a total of $270 million for the full year.
Before turning to our outlook I want to spend a moment to summarize some important changes in terms of pension expense and cash contribution to the U.S.
pension plan.
Interest rates continue to decline from last year's historic lows and based on the 4.35% discount rate at the end of 2012 our total underfunded U.S.
pension balance increased from $2.2 billion to $2.8 billion.
With that said we expect 2013 U.S.
pension expense to return to levels more consistent with 2011 or approximately $130 million.
The year-over-year decrease is driven by changes to our loss amortization period which was increased from 9 years the previous estimate of remaining service period for active employees to 28 years the average remaining total participant life expectancy.
The increase in the amortization period is in accordance with relevant accounting rules and was driven by the change in mix of active and non-active employees remaining in the plan and substantially all of our plan participants are no longer actively employed by the company due to significant employee exits as a result of the Mobility spin and recent divestitures.
We are planning approximately $300 million in cash contributions to the U.S.
pension plan in 2013 and we expect similar levels of contributions in future years.
Now turning to our Q1 and full year outlook.
For Q1 we expect sales growth of 4% to 5% over the first quarter of 2012.
Our outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.62 to $0.67 from continuing operations based on the Q4 ending share count.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q1 2012 of $0.59 per share.
This outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.13 per share and other items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
Moving to full year 2013.
Our outlook is for sales growth of 5% to 5.5% which includes an anticipated $65 million year-over-year iDEN decline to approximately $200 million.
We expect non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 18%.
Operating cash flow should improve largely in line with net income growth.
In addition I would like to provide some color on a few other items.
We expect other income and expense to be a net expense of approximately $25 million per quarter while our full year effective tax rate should be approximately 34%.
We also plan quarterly share repurchases to approximate the levels that we have executed over the past 2 quarters.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
In Government our sales for the quarter were $1.7 billion up 10% over Q4 2011.
We continued to see broad-based growth across the portfolio and in all regions.
Profitability for the business also increased with operating earnings of 21.8% of sales compared to 19.8% in Q4 of last year.
For the full year we saw strong growth across all of our major product lines in Government including double-digit growth in ASTRO and TETRA along with near double-digit growth in our professional and commercial radios.
In addition growth extended beyond our radio solutions with double-digit growth in our mission-critical command and control portfolio.
Full year growth of 12% was balanced across both infrastructure and devices.
Mission-critical system infrastructure sales increased significantly in ASTRO and TETRA which we believe is an indicator of future subscriber demand.
Since 2009 our focused R&amp;D investments have led to the introduction of over 100 new products across both subscribers and infrastructure.
And while mandates to improve spectrum efficiency encouraged some of our U.S.
customers to upgrade our new product introductions and expanded portfolio were a far more significant driver for us demonstrated by our international growth.
We had a strong finish to a very good year in North America with full year sales growth of 14%.
We also had double-digit growth in Latin America this year and solid growth in EMEA and Asia as well.
In ASTRO our market-leading P25 technology we now have over 30 customers contracted for Phase 2 TDMA systems.
This technology is twice as efficient as required by the current FCC narrowband mandate in the United States and enables double the channels and throughput.
And during the quarter several new customers signed up for this industry-leading solution including Montgomery County Pennsylvania for $39 million; Tacoma Washington for $28 million; Clayton County Georgia for $17 million; and Onslow County North Carolina for $13 million.
Customers like these who are investing in our next-generation systems have the assurance that new radios with enhanced features remain interoperable and backward-compatible with legacy P25 Phase 1 radios using our dynamic dual-mode feature.
Our solutions allow customers to incrementally invest like Camden New Jersey a municipality that recently added a $12 million expansion to their countywide trunk system to add geographic coverage and new users from surrounding agencies.
Our ASTRO technology extends beyond North America as we now have deployments in over 60 countries as well.
Several new awards this quarter highlight this trend including in Latin America: Colombia Ministry of Defense for $12 million; Panama Ministry of Public Safety for $6.5 million; and a large system for the Brazilian Army.
And in Australia we won numerous awards across all the mainland states that exceed $25 million in total.
We had a record year in TETRA.
We also celebrated a shipment milestone for TETRA with 2 million units shipped over the life of the portfolio a portfolio which we've expanded significantly.
Just 3 years ago we only had 1 TETRA radio model.
We now have a portfolio of over 8 radios with the introduction this quarter of 2 new mobiles and the most advanced TETRA portable radio in the world.
We're seeing the results of this TETRA investment with wins throughout Europe including Germany and also in Asia.
For example the State of Brandenburg Germany recently selected Motorola for a 4-year agreement to supply over 20 000 TETRA radios along with software and services for police fire and EMS.
Other TETRA wins this quarter included a multimillion dollar project with a large nuclear power company in Russia upgrades for the Shanghai Metro system for $7 million and awards for the Shanxi Police and Guangdong Police in China.
Moving on to our Enterprise segment.
Sales in Enterprise were $733 million a decrease of 3% from Q4 of 2011 including the anticipated decline in iDEN and the addition of $72 million in Psion revenues.
Operating earnings declined to 14.1% of sales from 18.2% last year.
For the full year the 5% decline in the Enterprise segment was impacted by the anticipated decline in iDEN of nearly $100 million partially offset by the Q4 revenues from Psion.
Our results were impacted by external factors such as a challenging macro environment leading to suppressed IT spend and unfavorable FX.
In addition there was some uncertainty around operating system roadmaps for enterprise mobile computing that we believe caused some customers to pause.
Looking across the portfolio on a full year basis.
Advanced data capture grew single digits offset by a single-digit decline in enterprise mobile computing and a double-digit decline in WLAN.
Despite the macro uncertainty our engagement with customers remain strong with examples of some customers who continue to invest in our mobile technologies which yield high return on investment.
The largest bakery in the world Grupo Bimbo recently awarded us a global supply agreement for mobile computing solutions that includes the M65 [ph] for use in direct route delivery and bakery operations beginning with a deployment in Mexico.
And Target recently awarded us a contract to deploy next-generation mobile computers in their stores.
This quarter The Home Depot continued to invest in their first phone platform.
These are associate productivity tools based on our mobile computing devices.
Home Depot's investment will help to further reduce the time an associate spends on store tasks.
Their goal has been to reduce task time from 60% to 40% and in return enable store associates to spend more time with customers.
The Motorola solution provides inventory information and the communications an associate needs to serve a customer.
Ferguson the largest wholesale distributor of residential and commercial plumbing supplies in the U.S.
recently chose Psion's EP10 devices to fully optimize its logistic and delivery fleet.
And Volkswagen recently chose Psion mobile computers for use in manufacturing at warehouse operations at their Puebla Mexico plant.
Italiane Poste (sic) [Poste Italiane] invested in our DC92 [ph] scanners along with an additional 10 000 MC65 mobile computers to be deployed through their post offices in Italy.
Australia Post recently ordered 9 million worth of mobile computing solutions and Norwegian Post ordered 2 million of additional MC65 mobile computers as well.
For the second year in a row we were recognized as the Best Partner Supplier to Tesco.
In addition we received their Innovation Partner of the Year for our work on the SB1 and the personal shopping solution based on our MC17.
This partnership with Tesco is an example of the deep domain expertise and investment that Enterprise customers expect from Motorola.
We recently introduced the MC45 a value-tier WAN-enabled device that extends our knowledge worker portfolio for reaching the field mobility segments in emerging markets.
We also announced the P6000 (sic) [MP6000] multiplane scanner which fits inside the checkout counters used by retailers.
Our investment in camera-based technology have enabled us to enter this new segment with a superior product to serve many existing retail customers and address a $250 million market opportunity that is new to us.
The National Retail Federation's annual big show was just last week.
Show attendance and our booth traffic was up significantly from last year as attendees were interested in new technology for retailers to improve their customers' experience.
One theme from the show was clear that a more informed consumer is driving retailers to invest.
Our annual consumer shopping study revealed that over 60% of retail managers believe that shoppers are better connected to information than their in-store employees.
Retailers who embrace technology and enable their store associates to directly engage shoppers are creating differentiation through customer service and avoiding costly lost sales.
Now switching gears and turning to a regional overview of the company.
North America grew 9% for the quarter and year driven by strength across the Government portfolio especially within ASTRO and professional and commercial radio.
In Enterprise depressed IT spend contributed to fewer large deals in enterprise mobile computing while our data capture business turned in solid results.
EMEA grew 4% for the quarter including Psion while full year growth came in at 2%.
Government returned to growth for the year despite the challenging backdrop of austerity.
Contracts like Norway and Germany and the expanded TETRA product portfolio contributed to a good year.
Enterprise declined but held up well considering the unfavorable euro impact in 2012 and a mid-20% growth compare in the previous year for 2011.
Asia grew 5% for the quarter and for the full year.
Although these results were below our expectations we remain confident in our long-term prospects for this region.
Latin America grew 16% excluding iDEN.
Government grew solid double digits as we saw good performance in several of our larger countries.
In services we had a great year as well with 9% growth driven by solid results in our largest region of North America and double-digit growth internationally.
In our Government business we recently signed managed service contracts with Austin Texas for a $32 million multiphase upgrade that will ensure their P25 system stays current with evolving technology; and with Prince William County Virginia for a $25 million computer-aided dispatch solution.
Enterprise customers are also looking for end-to-end solutions and we signed several agreements with nationwide retailers that attach managed services and comprehensive device management with our mobile computers.
In October many of our customers and employees on the East Coast were impacted by Hurricane Sandy's devastation.
Motorola was on the ground to help and we continue to assist with rebuilding efforts.
Storms like Sandy illustrate the unique requirements public safety has for their mission-critical networks built around highly redundant architectures that include features like talk around where our devices communicate directly with each other.
It's estimated that almost 25% of the commercial cellular towers in the area were off-line due to the hurricane.
However our LAN mobile radio systems were fully operational and available to assist first responders with their rescue and recovery efforts.
Q4 results were a great finish to another outstanding year: solid revenue growth expanded operating margins over 26% earnings per share growth and continued return of capital to shareholders.
We continue to execute on our strategy with a sharpened focus on Government and Enterprise and a promise to help people be their best in the moments that matter.
I'd like to thank our 22 000 employees for another year of focus and performance and I look forward to 2013.
The demand drivers for our business remain solid and we continue to invest and innovate for profitable growth.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator could you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering how you see the evolution of your operating expenses in 2013.
If I look at the -- just the way you've guided the year and the plan and operating margins if I assume things are not going to change much on a -- at your gross margin level I thought that end up with OpEx growing at a faster rate than in 2012.
So is that just me making the wrong assumptions? Or do you see like expenses increasing a bit faster this year compared to last year? I think on the operating expenses side you shouldn't see significant changes year-over-year.
The one benefit that I had mentioned was the pension expense will be a bit better.
Other than that we will dial up and dial down as appropriately within R&amp;D marketing and selling to ensure that we're addressing the opportunities.
But the year-over-year levels should be relatively consistent up slightly driven by annual merits and the like Pierre.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And maybe if I can just ask one quick follow-up.
You have a lot of new products coming in in your Enterprise division.
And could you give us an update on these products? When do you expect them to hit the markets? And if you have already some perspective on whether your Enterprise clients are going to adopt to these new products really quickly or if we are in a situation where there is a risk of a very slow ramp-up because of the economic environments? Yes Pierre I think that we have a couple of the new products already available now on the enterprise mobile computing side.
To be more specific on some of the new new the MC40 we expect to be available and shipping in Q2 which is great a front-store-facing operations device that will expand our portfolio.
Our SB1 smart badge should also be generally available in Q2.
And then the multiplane scanner should be available by midyear as well.
So in addition to some of the new MC series mobile computing devices that are already shipping we have these new products that will be available in a couple of quarters and we feel pretty good about the portfolio.
And we'll go next to Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First of all can you talk a little bit -- you mentioned a little about a pause in mobility.
Is that Enterprise related to like the uncertain IT budget spending environments? Or what kind of caused that pause? And if so is that kind of -- is it going to be resolved here in the next couple months? And then the second question I had is on the your net cash position can you just kind of remind us of your goals your leverage plans and any debt you may take out kind of time line we should think about and using it for stock buyback accretive acquisitions? So Jim on the Enterprise side I think the pause was due to a few things: Number one fewer larger deals which represented basically a number of smaller deals that made it difficult to compare on the previous year comp.
But also the pause was around to your point IT spending acknowledging the macro environment.
I think we believe that will improve as IT spend and -- IT hardware spend is anticipated to increase.
There was also I think -- and I mentioned it last call anecdotally but I think that around operating system roadmaps specifically Microsoft Windows 8 which has been remediated and we announced at NRF plans the incorporate Windows Embedded 8 into some of our devices in '13 so I think that takes care of itself as well.
So generally speaking I think that the environment for Enterprise should improve.
Remember also in Enterprise we also have a couple of products available on Android our ET1 tablet and new device that I just referenced with Pierre the MC40.
So we feel pretty well equipped because we have devices on Microsoft 6.5.3 and devices on Android with extra enterprise security great features that have been developed on top of Android.
And we also have HTML5 which is a web browser level.
So we can accommodate applications through a variety of different enterprise environments.
Between that new products and an improving external environment we think it should get better.
In terms of debt -- or net cash and debt Ed and I have talked about we came out of the quarter with net cash of $1.9 billion gross cash of $3.6 billion.
And it is our intention at some point in 2014 to go into a net debt position.
And the only other color I'd give you Jim on cash is referencing you to Ed's comments in the script which talked about share repurchases of approximately in line or comparable to the previous 2 quarters Q3 and Q4.
So that should dimensionalize where we are in net cash where we're headed with net debt and our planned expenditures.
Very much in line with what we outlined at the financial analyst meeting last year.
We're well on our way there.
And we'll go next to Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question for Greg is just in terms of the revenue growth of 5% between Government and Enterprise can you give us an idea as to how each of them grow? Maybe I missed it but in 2012 for the full year what effect did you see narrowbanding had? And then the second question is kind of a follow-up to the last one I guess [indiscernible] -- maybe this is more for Greg.
Is that you guys have exceeded on your margin numbers.
Your free cash flow conversion is improving.
Why is that debt -- adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2x the appropriate number? Why wouldn't that number be higher? And what would make you consider taking that [indiscernible] and distributing even more cash to shareholders? Is it under consideration? Or do you have good reasons to believe you can keep it at this level? So on the revenue first Kulbinder for the full year in '13 as kind of a backdrop to the overall revenue growth of 5% to 5.5% we're planning for Government to be up low- to mid-single digits Enterprise to be up mid- to high-single digits and of course that includes Psion and includes the contraction of $65 million of iDEN for narrowbanding.
Yes Kulbinder in relationship to narrowbanding I think we have spoken in the past it was approximately 3% of the growth in the quarter and approximately 3% for the full year for the Government growth when you think about that.
I think as you look going forward and we've talked before remember though narrowbanding was just a U.S.
phenomena and it really only impacted about 30% of the U.S.
installed base.
So as we look going forward we're still excited about our product portfolio with the new features their efficiency the fact of users moving from analog to digital an aging installed base.
And you saw throughout all the regions as Greg mentioned earlier we had growth in the Government segments.
So it was not really just a narrowband U.S.
impact.
And on the EBITDA and debt levels Kulbinder we have talked about an adjusted-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA something with a 2 handle on it.
We're still comfortable with that.
With that said I would mention that the pension obligation going up to the level that it did something in the mid-2s is probably more appropriate at this point and with that we believe we can maintain that solid investment-grade rating.
But you're right as we grow EBITDA levels we will be increasing the debt levels as we had outlined -- as I said last year at the financial analyst meeting such that we get to the point of a net debt position by 2014.
And we'll go next to Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First I have a clarification.
I wonder if you could just lay out again what the pension expense and the cash contribution was in 2012 and what you expect those 2 things to be in 2013.
And then on the share buyback if I build in the $300 million or so a quarter in buyback I don't get anywhere near a net debt position in 2014 given the free cash flow generation.
So should we expect that to accelerate at some point after the next couple of quarters because of the timing of getting cash back from overseas? Or maybe I'm just building in too much free cash flow but any commentary around that would be helpful.
I think I can fill in the blanks a little bit with some assumptions that you need to add in there because there's a couple different elements within the capital allocation plan.
But first on the pension side pension expense I think was approximately $185 million this year and we should go to approximately $130 million for next year.
So that's the improvement that I had mentioned.
Cash contributions were approximately $340 million this year and that will go something in the range of approximately $300 million next year so a little bit of improvement in both.
And on the capital allocation plan I think those levels do get us on the right trajectory.
The one thing that we are factoring as we had mentioned as part of our capital allocation plan that 50 30 20 allocation of share repurchase and acquisitions does include an element of acquisitions as well so we would plan for some level of acquisitions.
Of course you'd need to meet all the right hurdles in that capital allocation plan such that we get to that net debt position by 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on the full year Enterprise growth Greg that you mentioned should we expect that to be back-end loaded given the comps get a lot easier? Or do you see something in the visibility of that business where we might expect that to be positive earlier in the year? I think it will obviously improve from the previous year but I would think the trajectory Tavis will be gradual as we go through the year.
And we'll go next to the side of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Greg you talked a lot about the new products both in the Enterprise and the Government side and it seems like ASTRO and TETRA are doing very well.
Can you give a sense revenue-wise how each -- I don't know how you segment out prior products versus new products.
Can you give us some sort of sense as to revenue-wise how large the new products are within your portfolio and how that's grown over the last couple of years? So we do track NPI revenues as a percentage of the overall revenue contribution.
Obviously as you might imagine Ehud with the increased NPIs new product introductions that have materialized.
The percentage as a basis of total revenue has increased.
We don't break out with any level of granularity or detail beyond that.
But it is -- it's consistently gotten better as you've mentioned clearly on the ASTRO and TETRA side and we expect it to improve on the Enterprise as well given the number of new products both toward the end of this past year and the launches that we have in Q1 and Q2.
Research Division</strong> And following up just on that before I get to something else.
Is the margin different at all on new products? Because they're new you can maybe charge more for them? Or should we look at them as just a continuation of the previous portfolio? I would say a continuation and generally comparable.
I think just to add to that piece one of the advantages of continuing to refresh our product portfolio is the ability to continue to provide different options so that you're able to maintain the ASPs throughout the portfolio as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's actually a helpful way to look at it.
Then Ed can you quickly go over the pension change that you mentioned that change in the liability -- amortization period? Just so we can understand that a little bit better.
And then Greg finally do you have any thoughts on 2 of your competitors in the Enterprise side Honeywell and Intermec merging -- Honeywell buying Intermec? And does that give you an opportunity in the near term because of potential confusion in the market? Does that make the industry more consolidated and help pricing? Or do you think that could be more challenging as you go forward? Anything you can say about kind of industry consolidation? So I'll cover the pension piece first.
So the change that we had mentioned really is in accordance with FASB 87.
As we've had the spinoff of the Mobility business and the recent divestitures that we've talked about predominantly all of our employees are no longer active employees of the firm.
As a result of that FASB 87 prescribes that you would use the total population life expectancy to amortize that pension expense as opposed to what we were using before which was the active employees' service life remaining with the company.
That's the result and change from 9 to 28 years.
And if you think about it a perfectly logical answer which I think is much more aligned with the economic realities of the pension plan given that very few of our active employees make up the total participant pool of the pension expense that we're funding and recognizing through expense over a period of time.
So that's the change.
It was all part of a comprehensive review as well of the plan.
As we've looked at our asset returns as well and given the returns on the portfolio you'll see that asset return come down from what we've assumed over 8% to something with a 7% handle in it going forward.
We also adopted a year early the mortality tables which is a bit more conservative.
Given that people are living longer that expense will expand.
So all of that is contemplated and reflected in that net improvement if you will that we talked about a little bit earlier in the call.
And Ehud on Honeywell and Intermec I'd make a few points.
First of all I like it because it validates the attractiveness of the industry.
I'm not surprised at all that -- Intermec's been rumored for actually quite a while to be acquired so I wasn't at all surprised.
Obviously very familiar with both Intermec and Honeywell but that said pretty confident in the value proposition we offer.
The other thing I'd say is suffice to say we've looked at a variety of acquisition alternatives throughout last year.
We prioritized Psion for a reason and we're very pleased that we added them to the portfolio.
We had other options available to us but Psion was the one we felt the most bullish about because of what they do their complementary product portfolio and some of the extensions into some other European and other geographies that we think are complementary.
Remember Honeywell continues on this buying spree.
They bought HHP Metrologic LXE.
Now Intermec Vocollect.
There'll be several months until the deal is approved assuming it gets approved.
No reason to think it wouldn't but they'll have their work to do on integrating the variety of mobile computing assets that really for us in Psion is much more clean.
And finally I think in this space it is less about price and more about total cost of ownership.
And the solutions orientation that you bring to bear and the customized and integrated applications that we implement for customers.
So net-net all those ingredients into the blender we feel good about our position.
And we'll go next to Jeff Kvaal with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions I think.
Number one one for you Greg would you mind helping us understand what your assumptions are for LTE growth in both North America and the rest of world? And is that a part of your 2013 planning assumptions? And then secondly I think Ed for you in the past you talked about backlog.
Would you mind giving us an update on that if you can please? Jeff in LTE incorporated into the full year guidance of 5% to 5.5% we still believe that LTE will not be more than $100 million for the full year largely in the second half of '13 and I think it'll be primarily driven by the Middle East and less North America from a timing perspective.
That said we continue to work very closely with FirstNet.
There's as you know some early BTOP awards and spectrum waivers with customers like Mississippi and BayWEB.
And Mark and I work closely with FirstNet and those end-user customers in hopes that they will begin to move forward in 2012.
But it's not more than $100 million and more international than North America-driven for 2013.
But I'd also say though we continue to invest from an R&amp;D standpoint in subscribers in devices and in infrastructure.
We've got 3 products that are announced and launched now a USB dongle a vehicular modem a LEX 700 and that's part of the incorporated R&amp;D spend that we plan.
Well backlog I'll cover high level and Mark add any color commentary as appropriate here.
But backlog an important thing to note here is backlog is up year-over-year from where we ended Q4 of last year so up year-over-year really driven primarily by Government.
Enterprise down a bit as you would expect given the sales levels that we're seeing through today sequentially down a bit but really in line with what we would have expected.
So with that I'll let Mark talk a little bit more color by business.
Yes just I think as you think about backlog in particular from a Government segment which is a much longer-cycle segment the fact that we're up significantly by about $500 million year-on-year I think is important.
Also I would add that North America coming off of a very very strong year that we've been talking about each quarter in Government was also flat in backlog so we did not eat into the backlog another positive sign of demand.
And as we've mentioned even though Enterprise did not have the year that we had hoped backlog remains flat as we look sequentially with what happens.
And as Greg had mentioned earlier in his comment we're having a lot of good conversations coming out of NRF very good excitement not only about the portfolio but about the need to continue to do things to enhance employee productivity and enhance the customer experience as they go forward.
So backlog I think from the perspective of how we look at it we're in good shape going into the year.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to follow up on that.
And then ask -- it seems as though the expectation that you have for Enterprise growth in 2013 is quite a turnaround from 2012.
What are the factors that give you the confidence in there? It doesn't sound like backlog per se supports some of those.
Enterprise of course is not as big of a backlog business.
Exactly.
That's why I kind of compared that sequentially but you're right.
As you look at the Enterprise segment it is a more quick-turn type of business.
When we talked about the drivers that kind of impacted 2012 we talked about the year-on-year comparables.
Obviously as we go into this year our year-on-year comparable is much different given the performance we had in 2012.
There's also been some positive indicators with the projections or forecast for IT spend.
IT hardware spend retail spending are all up year-on-year which is a good sign for us.
We were also impacted by the FX environment particularly in Europe last year.
That seems to be stabilizing.
And as we mentioned earlier a number of new products and some clarity around the iOS roadmap for the future I think all brings us with a sense that we can return to mid- to high-single digit growth for the year.
And I think that -- don't forget of course the incremental revenue from Psion.
We have new products shipping the FX environment as Mark mentioned much more stable and we have clarity on the Windows Embedded 8 roadmap.
So there's a few tangible beyond the environmental things that are specific that are improving so that's incorporated into our thinking.
And we'll go next to John Barta with Northcoast Research.
Assuming pricing is constant on the Enterprise side how should we look at the introduction of Psion's mix of business? Are Psion's products more rugged higher-priced products or a little less than Motorola's norm? So I think when you think about Psion's products they clearly are targeted at a different space than where we primarily compete things like manufacturing ports cold storage; clearly a rugged product.
They have done fairly well in their margins and their average selling prices in the past.
We obviously think bringing them into the portfolio we can begin to leverage the size of Motorola.
But what makes us most excited is it really does expand our footprint and the ability to kind of leverage Motorola products into those verticals Psion products back into the spaces that we discussed a couple of customers we mentioned earlier back into our piece.
So together we think the 2 portfolios are very complementary.
In addition to that John I think that the opportunity with Psion is on the gross margin side.
Their pricing is good.
We always thought that there's opportunity for gross margin improvement as they're under the umbrella of Motorola Solutions.
As we look at complementary and similar suppliers and component purchases with our larger scale we believe that we'll be able to improve the gross margin profile from Psion.
Less about pricing more about gross margin improvement.
I think we're on the right track there too.
We talked about roughly breakeven in the fourth quarter of '12 and in 2013 get to profitability not quite the levels that were -- that we see across the rest of the business but we will get to profitability in 2013.
That's our current plan.
We'll go next to Matt Hoffman with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Another Enterprise question.
You addressed the growth equation there a couple of times but was wondering whether you could add some color on the OS component.
You have products multiple OSs in the pipeline.
But how much did buyer uncertainty around OS roadmaps factor into the 2012 equation? And then call out the features that they're looking for and that might help the '13 equation there.
So I think it was clearly a component of the pause.
I wouldn't blame it all on that or hide behind it.
The category of enterprise mobile computing contracted generally in line with what we contracted.
So I think we generally held share.
I think there's much better clarity.
Remember the enterprise mobile computing or rugged mobile computing is virtually 100% Microsoft as an installed base.
Typically Windows CE Windows embedded handheld.
So these customers that have Microsoft as a reference point want the clarity and migration to Windows Embedded 8.
I think that clarity is now there.
We worked closely with Microsoft.
We'll be shipping some new product in Q2 that gives those customers critical clarity and comfort around that roadmap.
In terms of features Matt we add enterprise software features or enterprise-grade features on top of Windows Embedded 8 handheld either that Microsoft puts in or that we put in things around enterprise-grade security power management optimizing a wireless experience over voice and data and sensors like data capture.
It's the unique features in this segment that allow purpose-built devices that are integrated with applications to flourish.
And a lot of work's been down there so we feel pretty well positioned that that clarity and then ultimately shipping product will give customers what they need by midyear.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks for the color there.
That definitely helps out.
So just one follow-up on the Enterprise side.
You called out wireless LAN.
It was down I think double digits.
You called it out.
Do you think that was more the vertical overall? Or is there again a product delay or product issue there? I think the disappointment in what the wireless LAN business is mainly us not environmental.
The WLAN segment in general continues to grow.
We lost share.
We remain strong in our core verticals at retail and transportation and logistics and we're not pleased with losing share.
That said we do have some strong opportunities in the beginning of the year.
The funnel is more robust.
We see more customers want to engage less on buying WLAN product per se and more into a managed-services-type value proposition that we'll incorporate and adopt.
We feel better that the business can perform better in 2013 and we have higher expectations.
But at the end of the day we've got to deliver.
The loss of share is more us than environmental.
We got to do better.
And we'll take our final question from Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research.
I was hoping you might be able to walk us through the anticipated contribution of the Psion business the total revenue in 2013 and if you could quantify what type of devices -- or operating system those devices are using.
And then I have a quick follow-up.
Just to dimensionalize it again we had $72 million of revenue in Q4.
We're planning on approximately $250 million for the full year for Psion in 2013.
As Mark referenced they're purpose-built devices that are extensions of what we do now vehicle-mount terminals in a forklift very rugged cold storage applications cold storage that'll tolerate subzero temperatures.
And their portfolio is Microsoft-oriented as well so it's very similar if not identical to the enterprise mobile computing segment.
And as you think about the profitability of the business that we said we'll get it to profitable.
It will be below the levels that we see for the rest of the business probably something below 10% above 5% in that range.
If you think about operating expenses in that business when I gave the commentary earlier you should make sure that you factor in our year-over-year growth and our operating expenses effectively the incremental Psion-related spend to support that business partially offset by the improvement in the pension cost that I had talked about.
And with all of that you should then plan relatively comparable with the impact of annual merits.
So spending will be up slight -- up a bit year-over-year in the aggregate.
But as a percentage of sales it will be -- it will improve.
And then could you walk us through where U.S.
cash versus offshore cash is and your CapEx targets for 2013? Sure.
So U.S.
cash in excess of 40% I think 42% or 43%.
I think we're $1.5 billion U.S.
cash of the total $3.6 billion.
Your question on CapEx was that for 2012 or...
2013.
So as we think of the model we're kind of simplifying a bit to kind of a 50% -- 50% allocated to a combination of share repurchase or acquisitions 30% consistent for dividends and approximately 20% for CapEx.
We did -- CapEx for the year we did about $185 million to $190 million for 2012.
You should expect us to see higher levels of CapEx next year and the biggest growth segment there would be in the area where we invest in revenue-type opportunities build on operated opportunities you've heard us talk about in the past.
So more success-based capital will be our goal and that is really the main driver for the -- what you're going to see year-over-year in the increase in capital expenditures as we get into 2013.
And I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
All right thanks.
I'd like to remind everyone the details outlined highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our website.
An audio replay together with today's slides will be available on the site shortly after this call.
As mentioned at the outset during the call we've made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: future sales growth and operating margins including by segment and region; earnings per share outlook; operating cash flow improvements; the amount of other income and expense; future effective tax rates and cash tax rates; future pension expense and cash contributions; the amount of future share repurchases and dividends; expected iDEN decline; demand trends for our business and products such as ASTRO TETRA LTE and WLAN; the impact of narrowbanding and the acquisition of Psion including revenue and gross margin; capital allocation framework including net debt; new products and solutions introductions.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 9 through 22 in Item 1.A of our 2011 Annual Report Form 10-K and Motorola Solutions' and other SEC filings.
Thanks and we look forward to speaking with you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions' Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss first quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our results along with commentary and Mark will join for the Q&amp;A session.
Earlier this morning we posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
It's always important to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Greg.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Thanks Shep.
This morning we reported first quarter sales of $2 billion an increase of 1% over last year.
Sales in Government increased 3% while Enterprise sales declined 4%.
On a GAAP basis net earnings from continuing operations were $0.68 per share compared to $0.50 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.66 per share compared to $0.59 per share in Q1 of last year a 12% increase.
For the remainder of this call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Now as I think about our performance with respect to the quarter I have 3 key takeaways I'd like to share with you on the business.
First execution on our business model remains solid with double-digit earnings per share growth driven by disciplined cost management and our return of capital to shareholders.
Second coming off a record year in 2012 we still had continued growth in Government with improved profitability in the segment as well and North America was strong.
In fact growth in every region was good except Asia where we did not perform up to our expectations.
And third in Enterprise revenue was softer than we anticipated and declined due to several factors.
First the WLAN business declined 30% where we're simply not executing well.
Second our iDEN business declined over $30 million in the quarter.
And third our rugged mobile computing business continues to be impacted by some macro uncertainty and a pending operating system transition.
In this environment a number of customers delayed purchase decisions in the quarter.
Now that said we believe improvement in the Enterprise business will be second-half driven for several reasons.
First beginning in Q3 the run rate comps get more favorable from last year which includes foreign currency exchange favorability of approximately $30 million at current levels.
Second iDEN becomes less of a drag for the second half as about $60 million of our now $80 million expected full year decline will be in the first half the year.
And third and finally meaningful customer engagements and the introduction of several new products should also drive second-half improvement.
In light of the slower recovery in Enterprise we now expect full year sales growth for the total company of approximately 3% to 4%.
This includes expectations for Government growth continuing at low- to mid-single digits and Enterprise growth of low- to mid-single digits reflecting market softness anticipated in the first half.
We remain confident in the fundamental drivers of our business and our ability to drive improved operating earnings.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed to provide additional details on the quarter.
And then I'll return to discuss the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Greg.
Q1 sales grew 1% lower than our expectations as we experienced mixed top line results.
Our Government business performed very well with the exception of Asia.
And as Greg stated the recovery in our core Enterprise business is now expected to occur in the second half of the year.
In Government we continued to see steady growth.
First quarter sales totaled $1.3 billion an increase of 3% over the prior year quarter.
Operating margins in the Government segment improved 200 basis points from 14.1% to 16.1%.
Solid sales growth and continued cost efficiency drove the operating margin improvements in this business.
Enterprise business revenues decreased 4% to $627 million in Q1.
Excluding the impact of Psion and iDEN Q1 revenues declined 8%.
This compares to a 10% decline in each of Q3 and Q4 of 2012.
Operating margins in the Enterprise business declined from 16.2% to 9.7%.
This decline was primarily driven by lower Enterprise product sales volume the addition of Psion sales and lower iDEN sales.
Operating expenses were $683 million or 34.6% of revenue which represents a 60-basis-point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
This includes the addition of Psion and lower pension expenses versus last year.
We remain focused on ensuring our cost structure is aligned to the business needs and we'll continue to monitor and adjust our spending based on the macro environment.
Our operating earnings for the first quarter were $278 million or 14.1% of sales compared to $290 million or 14.8% in Q1 2012.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $11 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $3 million in Q1 2012.
This amount was higher year-over-year but lower than expected primarily due to gains on investments.
We still expect this line item to be a net expense of approximately $30 million per quarter based on higher interest expense going forward.
I'll now move on to taxes.
Our effective tax rate was 30% for the quarter.
This amount was lower than expected due to certain discrete items and a change in amounts that are now deemed to be permanently reinvested overseas.
Given these items we now expect an ongoing tax rate of between 32% and 33% versus our previous outlook of 34%.
Cash used by operating activities in the first quarter of 2013 was $31 million as compared to $69 million of cash generated by operating activities in the first quarter of 2012.
The lower-than-expected cash flow results were negatively impacted primarily by the timing of long-term contract milestone billings.
Q1 was also adversely impacted by a little more than $40 million that we were required to post related to a foreign tax deposit.
We expect this amount will be refunded during 2013.
We ended the quarter with $3.7 billion in cash and investments and $2.5 billion in debt.
During the quarter we executed a $600 million bond offering at a 3.5% coupon rate as part of our long-term capital allocation plan.
With respect to capital return we repurchased $357 million of stock or 5.9 million shares at an average price of $60.27 per share in the quarter.
Since we began repurchasing shares in Q3 of 2011 we bought back $3.9 billion or 82 million shares at an average price of $47.56.
We have $1.1 billion remaining under our current authorization.
In addition we paid $72 million in dividends during the quarter.
Now turning to our Q2 and full year outlook.
For Q2 we expect sales to be flat to down 2% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
This factors in a flat to slightly down Government business given the very robust 14% growth a year ago and flat Enterprise sales.
Our Q2 outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.66 to $0.71 from continuing operations based on the Q1 ending share count.
This compared to non-GAAP EPS in Q2 2012 of $0.70 per share.
This outlook excludes stock-based compensation and intangible amortization expenses of approximately $0.13 per share and other items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings releases.
Moving to full year 2013.
Our outlook is now for sales growth of 3% to 4% which factors in a softer first half for Enterprise than we initially expected.
We remain committed to driving operating leverage and continue to plan for full year operating margins of approximately 18%.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
As previously stated Government sales for the quarter were up 3% over Q1 2012.
Profitability for the business also increased with operating earnings of 16.1% compared to 14.1% in Q1 of last year.
In ASTRO our industry-leading P25 portfolio we grew nearly double digits with strong subscriber growth representing a record Q1.
In terms of new contracts we received a $72 million contract from the State of Tennessee to implement Phase 2 of the Highway Patrol statewide P25 Phase 2 digital communications network.
This system will provide the critical communications link to assist Tennessee's troopers in ensuring their state is a safe and secure place in which to live work and travel.
We were also awarded a $26 million contract by Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department to implement a P25 Phase 2 700 megahertz digital radio communications network.
This was a competitive win back.
And this system will provide critical voice communications for metro officers throughout Clark County Nevada and expand the interoperable P25 footprint in Southern Nevada.
Wyandotte County in Kansas purchased a $25 million ASTRO system to serve public safety first responders and utility workers.
Outside the U.S.
we received an ASTRO award for over $70 million which is our largest ever system sale in Africa and the first phase of a nationwide communications network.
And in Brazil the army recently added a multimillion dollar expansion to their ASTRO system as well.
We continue to innovate for public safety with customer-driven features embedded in our radios.
And more than ever we enable them using software options.
Examples of several features in our ASTRO system that are software enabled include efficient spectrum use with Phase 2 TDMA dual-band functionality and enhanced security and encryption.
Our digital platform continues to enable a smarter and more robust communications network with features such as over-the-air programming network management utilities and remote diagnostics.
The exciting opportunity is that 60% of our customers' public safety networks in the U.S.
are still analog and eventually will migrate to digital.
Our TETRA portfolio also had a good quarter with double-digit growth driven by new systems.
We continue to execute on our tiering strategy in TETRA.
And this quarter we launched the new MTP6750 handheld the world's first TETRA radio with a 5 megapixel camera.
It embeds a special encrypted marking to validate metadata and ensure that images have not been tampered with before being presented in court.
Giving front-line officers this tool at the scene of a crime should reduce court time and increase prosecution rates with images used as evidence.
At the recent International TETRA Awards our Automated RF Coverage Evaluation Solution won recognition for best new innovation.
Developed collaboratively with the London Metropolitan Police Service this network monitoring utility provides automatic visibility of trouble spots on a mission-critical TETRA network and reduces maintenance costs by decreasing the need for testing in problem areas.
Our ASTRO and TETRA mission-critical communication systems help secure mission-critical infrastructure beyond public safety.
We've tailored our products to meet the needs of requirements of expanded verticals such as transportation and mining and energy.
The Houston Airport the fourth largest in the U.S.
upgraded its command-and-control center with a $4 million investment in Motorola's MCC7500 IP console for critical dispatch needs and daily operations.
Combined with their deployment of the new APX subscriber platform more than 1 000 users efficiently manage operations supporting 36 million travelers annually.
And among our international TETRA customers this quarter we won multimillion-dollar awards with rail transportation systems in Stockholm Sweden; Klang Valley Malaysia; Macau China and Medellín Metro in Colombia.
Our radios are also designed to operate in harsh environments like petrochemicals and oil and gas.
For example the SIBUR Russian pipeline recently invested in a multimillion dollar TETRA system.
In Australia we're working with Queensland Gas Company on a $4-million enhancement to their TETRA radio network.
And Chevron in Thailand recently purchased a TETRA system for their operations.
Additionally we continue to invest in areas beyond voice and into the command center.
Command centers for law enforcement are the backbone for receiving and sending mission-critical voice and data enabling situational awareness for first responders to be more effective.
As public safety increasingly leverages big data our capabilities are once again addressing key needs.
Our new Real-Time Crime Center solution integrates radio consoles and video over existing carrier and private wireless networks while incorporating public- and private-sector cameras.
The Real-Time Crime Center solution provides a foundation for agencies to operationalize predictive policing strategies and use analytics to realize the full promise of technology investments in voice and video.
The city of Malden Massachusetts is an early adopter of our Real-Time Crime Center and recently implemented an integrated public safety video surveillance network incorporating over 30 video cameras located throughout the city.
In Public Safety LTE we continue to work with our North America customers while several of them are negotiating spectrum lease arrangements with FirstNet following their February board meeting.
We're also pursuing international opportunities and innovating with products like our new LTE modem the VML700 which interoperates on a carrier and Public Safety LTE network.
The modem works on a public carrier LTE network and can also act as a mobile 802.11 WiFi hotspot while our customers plan for a public-safety grade LTE network.
This VML700 enables new media-rich applications like photos geomapping or streaming video in the vehicle.
Another testament to our leadership position this quarter we were the first Public Safety LTE vendor to successfully complete the latest interoperability testing activities with the Public Safety Communications Research Program located at the Department of Commerce.
And our LEX 700 LTE handheld device for public safety is now available to ship.
For our federal customers we released a new product design to serve their agencies that need secure voice and data communications.
The AME 2000 is based on Motorola's Assured Mobile Environment solution which combines a commercial off-the-shelf Android device with hardware and software to provide end-to-end encrypted voice and data communications through private or public wireless networks to support the missions of federal agencies.
This new mobile device combined with our CRYPTR micro encryption unit provides federal-government-level data security to mobile devices.
Moving on to our Enterprise segment.
Sales in Enterprise were $627 million a decrease of 4% from Q1 of 2012.
Operating earnings declined to 9.7% of sales from 16.2% last year driven by negative leverage from lower sales iDEN declines and the addition of Psion revenues which will carry lower than segment margins as we continue to drive margin improvement in that business.
Within the Enterprise portfolio our business was down primarily due to the iDEN decline wireless LAN declining over 30% and the Enterprise mobile computing business declining single digits without Psion.
In addition a large base of legacy applications deployed by our Enterprise customers are written in Microsoft's legacy OS which is aging.
As a result customers are contemplating a transition to Android or the future Windows Phone 8 embedded operating system.
Although this doesn't impact all of our customers it has resulted in delays for several customer projects.
Now that said we do have a dual OS strategy with Microsoft and its variants in our Enterprise secure version of Android.
We continue to deployed Windows CE and embedded handheld 6.5.3 products and we're strategically partnering with Microsoft on their release of the next generation of Windows-embedded handheld based on Windows 8.
We've also launched Android products and the ecosystem is growing in Enterprise.
And more importantly we've offered our customers an OS agnostic solution in Rhomobile a tuck-in acquisition we made a while ago which I remind you is an HTML5 framework that enables right ones run many applications.
We've also ramped up our new product launches over the last few months especially on the Enterprise mobile computing side with updates to core products like the MC92 and MC67.
We've also brought to market several new category-expanding Enterprise mobile computing products like the MC40 the Smart Badge 1 and MC45 and our MP6000 multi-plane scanner which is our first entry into an entirely new market for us in bioptic scanning.
The updated core products are playing well competitively especially the MC92 and MC67 which represent the leading products in their respective categories.
And we're also seeing good pilot interest and funnel expansion for some of our newer portfolio.
Our Enterprise business is purpose built with solutions designed for working closely with our customers to meet their unique business requirements.
For example we launched 2 new wearable devices designed to increase efficiency and accuracy in inventory and warehouse distribution.
Our new and improved wearable mobile computer enables warehouse associates to keep their eyes and hands on moving materials and frees them from paperwork.
Accompanying with our wearable finger Ring Scanner it combines effortless scanning and task accuracy verification.
Our innovation in this space resulted in multimillion-dollar awards this quarter from 2 parcel and delivery companies in the U.S.
Among our transportation and logistics customers on track a regional parcel carrier that serves the Western U.S.
continued their $4 million rollout of MC9500s for their delivery fleet.
Tesco continues to invest in our MC17 retail mobile computers which enables a personal shopping experience in their stores with a $3 million order this quarter for an additional 100 stores.
We designed this product working closely with Tesco allowing customers to scan items while they shop efficiently check out and target promotions with buying patterns.
We were also awarded a contract to supply Dutch retailer Sligro with MC17 devices for use in 30 of their largest stores.
On the RFID front Macy's has been a leader in the adoption of RFID in retail.
And this quarter they continued to invest in our RFID solutions for their stores which increase inventory accuracy and enhance productivity.
At the recent ProMAC conference we demonstrated our comprehensive supply chain solutions from manufacturing to distribution to retail outlets.
Our comprehensive offerings are now complemented with Psion's rugged modular offerings to the manufacturing and supply chain verticals.
One Psion product that exemplifies this rugged design is the Omni XT15 a handheld device designed specifically for operation in hazardous conditions including pharmaceuticals oil and gas utilities chemical and other manufacturing applications.
We're encouraged by the early interest we've experienced with our new category-expanding device the MC40.
This multifunction device is designed for inventory management as well as point-of-sale and voice.
For front of the store it provides a robust alternative to a consumer device with the durability that is core to our devices and a sleek pocketable design with touch screen interface.
We are working with some customers who previously explored consumer grade devices with attached sleds and found them to be inadequate point-of-sale solutions because of lack of durability shortfalls with voice and push-to-talk clients and a lack of enterprise-level support.
Our solution meets these requirements supports multiple applications in 1 device with a built-in card reader includes full-shift battery life with user-swappable batteries and a secure operating system that enables multiple users to have unique login and security credentials.
Now before turning to a regional overview of the company I wanted to explain some changes to our regional reporting structure.
In January we realigned our regions under a new geographic structure.
Sales in the Middle East are now included with Asia forming a region that we now call APME.
We also installed a new leader in January in APME as well.
And our sales in Europe and Africa form a region called EA and we've included a historical schedule of the performance of these regions with this quarter's earnings release.
And Mark I'm sure may have the opportunity to elaborate further on the regional structure later during the call.
Moving on to the regional results this quarter for the total company.
With respect to the Americas North America sales increased 1% with continued strength in Government up 6% while the Enterprise business declined double digits.
Latin America performed well this quarter both Government and the Enterprise without iDEN increased double digits.
Including iDEN Latin America was down 3%.
Turning to Europe and Africa we grew 13% driven by double-digit growth in both Government and Enterprise.
Including our Psion acquisition the Enterprise business declined mid-single digits.
Finally in Asia Pac and Middle East sales declined 13% driven by a significant double-digit decline in Government.
The Government business in Asia declined across the portfolio and the Enterprise business grew mid-single digits year-on-year.
We still anticipate full year growth in Asia Pac and Middle East overall.
A couple of other final comments.
We also received top recognition from CRN's 2013 Partner Program Guide awarding PartnerEmpower our PartnerEmpower channel program a 5-star rating.
CRN recognizes an elite subset of vendors that provide the best partnering elements in their channel programs.
Our 20 000-plus partners are an extension of Motorola that scales globally and complements our direct sales organization.
In fact many of our partners have been with us for decades and are proud to exclusively represent our products.
It is also worth highlighting that we were also honored with an unprecedented 5 Red Dot Product Design Awards including recognition of innovative designs for our new MC40 mobile computer and the  MOTOTRBO SL radio and mobile radio control head.
Now the Red Dot Awards as they're affectionately known is one of the most internationally acclaimed design competitions dating back over 70 years.
And the Red Dot is an internationally recognized seal of quality.
In conclusion our Q1 revenues were softer than we anticipated driven by mixed results.
Looking forward the Government business remains solid.
And within Enterprise we expect second half improvements from customer engagement and new products as well as a benefit from lower comps and favorable foreign exchange.
We remain focused on driving revenue growth earnings improvement cash flow and shareholder return.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to follow up.
First I guess a little more clarification on the weakness or missed execution or how would you clarify it in terms of the Asia Pacific business? And what steps are you taking to turn around that trend? And then secondly although I understand the guidance I'd like to understand kind of the levers you could pull if the full year turns out to look a lot more like Q1 in terms of flattish year-over-year growth.
Could you still get to margin expansion or does it require some top line growth to get there? So Tavis I'll take the first piece of that question.
I think we talked about through several quarters of last year that we were not pleased with our performance in Asia.
As you remember we reported single-digit growth in both Government and Enterprise last year.
At the end of the year we decided to make some changes though structurally as we kind of expanded our sales coverage and went to more regional leadership.
We also made a leadership change within the region.
We're bringing in a new leader by the name of Mohammed Akhtar who had previously led the Middle East but prior to that assignment had served 15 years within Asia and had wonderful experience with Motorola as within the region.
This particular quarter we also did not perform as well as we had hoped.
And similar to the Enterprise story I do believe it will be second-half driven.
As Greg said though we do still expect for the Asian region to be mid- to high-single digit growth for the year.
If you think about the quarter in particular though the quarter was really driven by a couple of countries around the region that had some anomalies.
While I'm not making excuses for our performance Malaysia was down $12 million as a result of the roll off of the Royal Malaysian Police project.
India and Australia were down $8 million and $6 million respectively with large projects that happened the previous year.
And then China and Japan were both down $7 million.
We continue to experience some pressure in China both macroeconomically as well as localization pressure around the PDT standard for our PCR-type of business.
So we continue to be pressured there.
But as I said we've put the steps in place to turn that business around.
I'm confident in the leadership.
I'm confident in the moves that we've made.
And I think you'll see steady improvement as we move throughout the year.
Yes on the full year outlook Tavis obviously we spent a lot of time on it.
We believe primarily as the Government business continues to moderate I think pretty solidly and still grow off of record comps the previous year.
That's also why we think when we guide Q2 to flat to slightly down we're flat to down 2%.
That's also embedded in that with a record 14% quarter than the previous period for Government.
At the end of the day it primarily comes down to Enterprise.
We think we're taking a pretty prudent approach.
The full year guidance still does expect as you asked specifically some top line growth.
That's expected for the second half and for the full year.
Now that said I'll tell you I'd like to think it's in the DNA of this management team to continually manage costs pretty aggressively which is why we're reiterating our commitment to operating leverage and still targeting approximately an 18% operating margin for the full year this year irrespective of what the top line growth is.
So Tavis but as you know as we've talked about we need top line growth to drive leverage and to improve operating margins.
We are assuming that top line 3% to 4% but we do think that 18% is achievable based upon our view of spending.
There was some level of investment assumed in our prior guidance that we have now pulled back on and that's why we do believe we can get that 18%.
And as Greg said it's in the DNA of the organization that everyone knows what they need to do.
If the top line's softer we don't make the investments that we had planned to make.
So that's all factored into what we guided here.
And our next question comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up to the -- one of the prior questions about Asia not performing well.
It sounds like you've got a grasp on what happened there.
But I'm a little unclear.
Maybe you can take another shot at about what are you guys are doing here to resolve this? Is it -- do you need to have a bigger footprint there? Do you need stronger sales force people? Is it more channel work through? Or do you need to withdraw more or make more M&amp;A there? How are you going to resolve these Asia challenges that you're seeing? So Jim I think in short it's a little bit of all of what you just mentioned.
When we look back over the last several years we were fortunate in Asia to have steady growth even through 2009; when we declined in other regions we had growth.
But in retrospect when we look at that that growth was really centered around China and Australia and some large projects.
What we recognized last year is that we didn't have the proper strategy and resources in the areas that we see for future growth the emerging countries like Indonesia India Thailand Vietnam.
So what we've done is rebalanced our resources.
When I talked about a new sales coverage model that's exactly what we did both from a leadership perspective as well as augmenting some resources from outside of the region with subject matter expertise to help kick start that growth in these new areas.
So combined with the overall leadership I think that we've taken the steps to go do that.
I do think it will take time.
That's why I talked about second-half driven.
But we really do understand and I think the opportunity for growth within that region is certainly still there.
And Jim just to accentuate we think it's organic investments.
So when you kind of inventory the main items for the Asia recovery plan it's leadership marketing channel management sales coverage.
Which basically represent organic investment and a reprioritization of capital deployment that we have every intention of making.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up switching gears to the Enterprise side of things.
Is that more macro driven in enterprise budgets and uncertainty and just given the overall macro issues? Or is there something that MSI -- Motorola Solutions can do to kind of surpass and get around the challenges that have kind of been persistent on the Enterprise side as far as products or rollouts? Or how should we think about overcoming those headwinds? So Jim I think that there's a few factors.
I think it's primarily macroeconomic driven which has resulted in customers deferring some purchases.
Now Q1 was challenging on the Enterprise side and it actually got a little bit more challenging toward the latter half of March.
I also reference though in my earlier comments there is this uncertainty around operating system transition.
Remember the mobile computing environment which is the bulk of our Enterprise business is virtually a 100% Microsoft installed base.
Customers with Windows CE customers with Windows-embedded handheld they want a roadmap on how they transition from their OS environment to the new Microsoft environment.
And that's work that we're still working with Microsoft on.
I was on a call recently -- yesterday with the development teams and Steve Ballmer and myself and we're working on a few client opportunities to ensure and target getting a new Microsoft release product piloted by the end of the year.
So that's also a component.
Now having said all that remember our wireless LAN business declined over 30%.
That's not market driven.
That's a failure to execute on our part.
And we are transition -- we've transitioned from moving from a product sale to a managed services sale on WLAN and we're not doing a good enough job.
And the next few months will be critical for us to get more traction and grow that business of opportunity.
And then lastly Jim the iDEN business was down pretty sharply in Q1.
Most of it was anticipated but quite frankly iDEN was down even more than we thought.
It was a $32 million year-over-year decline.
And for the full year we now expect iDEN to be about $185 million full year in '13 coming off of $265 million the previous year.
So actually the overall decline in iDEN is a little bit more pronounced than we originally thought.
And your next question comes from Peter Misek with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on capital returns.
Can you give us an update on where we are with that process and leveraging off of the balance sheet.
And then I have a couple operational questions.
Sure.
So just high level we're obviously very pleased with the progress we've made with the program the share repurchase program thus far.
Got a little over 20% of our share base being reduced since the inception of the program 82 million shares $3.9 billion an average price of $47.56.
This quarter we did another $357 million at an average price of $60.27 bringing our ending share count at the end of the quarter to 272 million shares.
We have about $1.1 billion remaining in the program as of the end of the quarter.
And I'd say kind of our thought process going forward Greg can add to it is we'll maintain a flexibility to be opportunistic in the execution of repurchases as we've done in the past.
So you should expect that same mantra going forward.
Yes.
I mean we've clearly demonstrated our commitment to capital return to the shareholder now approaching $4 billion.
You've seen the levels we've purchased back at what prices.
By the way at the end of the day all in we feel very good about the value created with that whole process.
And we will continue to be opportunistic going forward to maximize shareholder return.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick operational questions.
First is how should we think about currency and FX going forward? Obviously very volatile swings in the yen but we've also had some big movements in the euro.
How should we look at that for the remainder of the year? What assumptions are we -- should we be modeling? And then lastly as we look at the Government business higher level and maybe a little bit longer term or qualitatively you made some comments on the analog to digital switchover.
How much of that equipment is installed? How should we look at that progression as we approach the 2018 cutoff deadline? If you could help there qualitatively that would be great.
So on the FX front if you recall last year Q3 in particular was the big dip and for us the biggest euro -- the biggest impact on FX is the euro.
So when declined last year fairly significantly it caused effectively I think it was a $40-million-or-thereabouts decline in sales in Q3 that we talked about.
At rates where they are today with the euro at about $1.3 that causes for the second half of the year in fact a lot of it in Q3 a $30-million improvement in Q3 and a little bit more for the full year.
So that's the way we're thinking.
Our guidance is factoring in current rates assuming they stay where they are.
And that's the impact that Greg talked about on the call.
Peter as you think about the Government business as we've talked about we've been very pleased with how resilient the Government business continues to be.
Last year as we talked about the real strength there was a lot of talk about narrowbanding which certainly had an impact in North America.
But at the same time we talked a lot each quarter about new product introductions the expansion of analog to digital.
We also talked about the benefits of that and of aging infrastructure.
The comment Greg made earlier about 60% of our customers in North America are still analog worldwide 50% of our customers are still analog.
So as we go forward given that aging infrastructure the benefits of moving from analog to digital as well as the things that we just talked about the need that drive -- these fundamental drivers that are still present within Government it helps us to continue to be optimistic.
We've talked about the Government business being low- to mid-single digits.
I think as we continue to put out new products once LTE takes hold as we talked about and will talk about further LTE has been somewhat delayed.
And we think that moves the Government business to continue to be in solid mid-single-digit kind of a growth business.
And our next question comes from the side of Stanley Kovler with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm calling in for Ehud Gelblum.
I just wanted to ask you on the mobile computing side are you seeing any impact from as you mentioned consumer-oriented devices like iPad iPhone I mean help us quantify that? And in terms of the mix of Microsoft versus Android going forward how do you anticipate that change shifting perhaps to more Android? What percentage of the portfolio or of that business could go potentially to Android? Then I have a clarification.
So you kind of clicked in and out.
I think what you were asking was about Microsoft to Android transition.
And then also the consumer device potential substitution in mobile computing.
Is that what you were saying? Research Division</strong> Yes that's correct.
Okay so on the Microsoft side or the operating system side obviously we ship both.
We do Microsoft and Android.
I've described already the conversations with Microsoft at the highest levels of the company to ensure a roadmap for our installed base customers of Microsoft.
Now 2 of our newest products the MC40 and the ET1 tablet now WAN enabled are both Android.
It's also worth noting that what we do is we Motorola take off-the-shelf Android and then with our development team under Girish Rishi put specific enterprise features around that on device management security encryption and the like.
And we will continue to do that.
So I think that you'll see us continue to ship more Android product of course in 2013 and '14 and have more than a couple of products on Android.
We will work with Microsoft to transition the legacy installed base.
And also we probably have a few dozen customers that have invested in RhoMobile which was the tuck-in acquisition we did.
And again that whole reason is kind of an insurance policy that lets a customer install RhoMobile software which is operating system agnostic and provides an application framework that they can run -- write once and run many irrespective on the OS underlying the specific device.
On the consumerization if you will as some people like to call it as I mentioned earlier in my remarks there are a couple of positive signs where customers have looked to deploy either an Android device or an Apple iOS device.
And for a variety of reasons have come back to us whether it's durability whether it's overall post-sale support on application refresh or break fix or inventory management or helpdesk support.
Having an enterprise device is different than trying to just take a consumer device and slap it into an enterprise framework.
We are cautiously optimistic that the MC40 as well as the overall feature and service capabilities that we bring to the table could mitigate some of the front-facing store operations on the terms of the consumerization or use of a consumer-grade device.
It's still in transition.
I don't know if Mark wants to add anything to that.
But I think generally we're well positioned and stay tuned.
Yes I think the comment was exactly right.
We talked about in the past there's certainly been a presence of consumer devices moving into the front of the store.
As we've said I think that's also a positive because it increases the visibility and the need for mobility.
And as we've said in the past all ships rise with the tide.
At the same time we're expanding our portfolio as Greg said the MC40 the MC45 the Smart Badge.
So we're beginning to move from this traditional rugged line worker which is still the heart of our business move back up so that we have offerings in the front of the store as well.
Yes that's an important point.
Remember as you look at our rugged mobile computing business it's typically blue collar concrete warehouse purpose built.
The front-facing store fight between our MC40 or a consumer-grade device we look at more as opportunistic than a cannibalization or a core threat to the heart and soul of what we do on rugged devices.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then on the financials going back to the Enterprise margins.
Is it just a matter of higher revenue to improve margins or is there anything related to mix that will also change iDEN obviously going down a little bit more than you expected impacting the operating margin there.
Maybe you can clarify what else gets you back up in terms of operating margin there.
And just a little bit more color on the taxes going down if you could help there.
So I think Ed and I will tag team this.
But you're right.
On the margin profile of Enterprise the contraction is partly due to a more accelerated decline of iDEN which has a different gross margin profile.
It's also the incorporation of Psion which has lower gross margins at the moment as we integrate that acquisition.
By the way the overall integration of Psion I think is going well.
And we will work over time to get the economies of scale in the supply chain to take the gross margin profile of their products directionally more in line with the gross margin profile of our Enterprise portfolio.
And on tax? Yes so -- and just also a few more things on the margin side.
Really you said it right.
It's really volume.
As the volumes go down at the gross margin level of this business it hurts the operating margin.
So volume is probably the biggest contributor to the operating margin decline.
The gross margin decline we've talked about really the mix of Psion and iDEN as well as a few -- a shift between product and services mix which brought the gross margins down for the full year.
As Greg said I'd say in the aggregate as well our view is that we should be driving operating margin improvement.
As we get to a full year view of low- to mid-single digit growth in the Enterprise business we should see operating margin expansion as you look at the firm with the mix of iDEN going down.
That may be a bit more challenging in the aggregate but if you exclude that piece of it for sure we're going to be driving operating margin improvement.
And he had a tax question I think.
And on the tax piece our -- we've guided previously to 34%.
We had a 30% effective tax rate this quarter.
About 2.5% of that was related to the discrete items that I had mentioned related to international and certain U.S.
tax adjustments.
Those aren't necessarily recurring.
However there's a 1.5% decline that we will be using to record our taxes going forward in the ongoing rate which we now expect to be from the 34% now down between 32% and 33% related to our assertion that in certain countries our earnings in those countries will be permanently reinvested based upon our assessments.
This all goes to our overall strategy of ensuring we have cash where we need it when we need it particularly in international jurisdictions so that cash becomes much more fungible going forward.
And our next question comes from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig in a little bit more into the Enterprise segment just to make sure I understand the comments.
So I think you talked about some uncertainty in the installed base which is virtually 100% in Microsoft and some of the products you're highlighting as addressing some of the interest in Android such as the MC40 and the ET1.
They're more as I understand front of the store kind of products.
So can you just comment a little bit on whether the installed base is looking at Android as an operating system for the traditional back of the store concrete floor types of applications where you've focused on? And if that's the case then if you can just outline a bit more on the Android roadmap in that area.
I think Simona at the moment I would characterize the consideration for Android as more front-facing customer store.
So -- and we're also refreshing the MC67 MC9500 and some traditional products.
Now it all depends ultimately on the speed and pace of development of the new OS by Microsoft.
But I'd characterize it more around customer facing.
Mark I don't know what you think.
Yes I completely agree.
When you think about back office rugged you usually don't have touch screen kind of devices.
You're not as worried about that if you will consumer user interface.
And there's a lot of investment.
As Greg has mentioned in the past almost 100% of all vendors not just Motorola of those kinds of devices are Microsoft based.
Therein lies some of this delay and the interest from the industry in the next generation from Microsoft of what they're going to go do.
At the same time though we do want to provide options as we go forward and that's what we're continuing to do.
I do think the exciting piece of all of this is while we have been slow to ramp up in our sales of large projects and we've talked about that for the last several quarters it is encouraging both engagement with customers.
I was also at a recent partner event with our top 100 partners and there was excitement actually about their engagements our new products what we're talking about roadmaps.
And our actual funnel activity has really increased quarter-over-quarter strong double digits.
And in fact the large project funnels those over $15 million have increased 25%.
So while we know we've got to go execute in Enterprise and we've talked about it being second-half driven it is encouraging that we're seeing good signs that that will indeed happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you talked about having a new Microsoft-release product piloted by the end of the year can you just expand on that? Is that something that you're waiting on Microsoft to release? Or is it something that you are going to release? And doesn't that imply that we wouldn't really expect to see much improvement in that area until that product is out? Well again so characterize it more as customer-front facing.
And we're already shipping product with the MC40 with Android and specific enterprise features around that.
Simona yes we will wait for Microsoft to give us a release of the successor to Windows-embedded handheld.
And then we will take it and test it and certify it along with the necessary wireless carriers here in the States like Verizon and AT&amp;T.
So yes but we're working -- the 2 development teams are working pretty closely on the architecture of the system the chipset design the timing of different releases.
But yes we are working with and primarily waiting on.
But it is a very iterative discussion again that I referenced we had as late as yesterday and we'll continue to have over the next few months.
The other important point around that though is so that you don't think that they'll just wait on this new product.
We talked about earlier and Greg mentioned that we are OS agnostic.
And this solution with Rhomobile allows customers to not only move forward with Android but move forward as well with existing Microsoft products that we're offering as we've gone forward.
We've talked about actually upgrading some of our good strong sellers that are leading the industry.
So while there's this interest in the future roadmap there's still compelling reasons right now to move forward.
And we'll take our next question from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
First question has to do with the services.
It appears that services increased or the percentage of business quite a bit over I guess last year.
How should we look at this going forward? Should we expect to stay at this level or continue increasing? Yes I think we talked about last year both at the financial analyst meeting and through the quarters that we've continued to expand our services capability and we want to continue to do that as we think about solutions for customers.
And as we talk to customers in the field they're asking us to look at integrating more components of their overall needs.
So our services piece is expanding and we see that happening as we go forward.
With that said I think when Ed talked earlier about the Enterprise mix the increase in services as a percentage of equipment in Enterprise this past quarter was really driven not as much by strategy but more by the lack of sales volume of Enterprise equipment which impacted the margin.
So I think as we go forward what we've talked about is even with this increase in service we continue to believe that we can maintain our operating margins and our course of continued operating margin improvement.
Yes the thing I would add Keith is that we will stay close to the core on services.
So we're not going to stray too far on things that are not core to our business.
So I point you back to a great opportunity that we capitalized in Norway where we're operating under the services banner a multiyear TETRA network.
I just returned from Australia last week.
Australia is arguably probably the best managed services theater that we have in the world both on MMR LAN mobile radio as well as a mobile data network.
And there's other opportunities there as well.
And then lastly the other opportunity is both on Government and our rugged mobile computing I would characterize around life cycle managed services.
So if some customers may opt to not buy mobile computing devices but in turn have us do it have us do the technology refresh have us price a managed services engagement that allow us to manage the device portfolio and provide them a cost per user or a monthly charge we'll do that.
So things around public safety Public Safety LTE and the rugged mobile computing space represent very good service opportunities that are adjacent to our core and that can be used to capitalize on our domain expertise.
And our next question from Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for Greg.
I know you kind of touched up on this.
But on the Enterprise business it seems over the last year to 1.5 years there's been various reasons why revenues haven't come through whether it's macro or big deals being pushed out now wireless LAN and then the OS transition.
I'm just wondering is a more structural portfolio review being done? Is that being considered? And I see the point that Ed made on maybe pulling back on investments but what about actually looking to actually lower the cost base in that business if the -- if you don't see the recovery in the second half how do you see that [indiscernible]? So Kulbinder couple of things.
On rugged mobile computing you're right.
It's been sluggish for a few quarters.
As we articulated we expect a thoughtful second half return for the reasons we've described.
That said it also really was very very strong for probably 6 to 8 quarters prior to this latest downturn.
So it's a great core business for us but it does have more cyclicality and swings that are more susceptible than macroeconomic than the steady stable more predictable Government business where we have a stronger position.
And quite frankly we're between the age of the infrastructure narrowbanding the global move from analog to digital and a whole host of other reasons while that business is more stable.
We still believe and I still believe that in the core of our Enterprise business this downturn is more cyclical than structural.
Now we'll always be mindful and be careful not to drink our own Kool-Aid and continually re-examine the different drivers of the business but I still think it's more cyclical.
WLAN to your point is different.
That's a business -- that's an overall market that's north -- that addressable market's north of $4 billion or $4.5 billion.
We have consistently lost share in WLAN and we just haven't executed that well.
Now it is a little bit more embryonic in terms of our strategic change from product to managed services but we've got to do a better job.
So I distinguished when we talk about "the Enterprise business " I distinguish WLAN from rugged mobile computing and data capture.
In rugged mobile computing and data capture we're #1 worldwide.
We've talked about the design expertise the installed base leading market share a new product portfolio.
WLAN is different.
And we've got to turn that corner relatively soon and we're going to keep a close watch on that business over the next few months.
Having said all that we will continue to manage the cost structure appropriately.
We're committed irrespective of revenue levels to get at the 18% operating margin that I think the business can yield from an operating leverage standpoint.
And going forward we will always look to expand that as well as operating earnings and operating margin expansion.
And we'll take our last question from Andrew Spinola with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll follow up on that question actually.
Maybe more specifically if I think about your -- the longer-term operating margin in the Enterprise business it's obviously been trending down the last couple years.
How do you think about that? Are you willing to say is it -- can that be a mid-double-digit operating margin business? And what gets you back to that? I think it can be a double-digit operating margin business.
What gets us back to that is return to growth at the top line the traction and acceptance of new products; for us to take the expanded funnel that Mark described and convert it to sales; for us to capitalize in Asia as an example; the improvement of channel management and sales coverage in certain theaters there; and the continued discipline around cost structure.
So I think we can do that.
By the way just even though this isn't specific you were talking more about Enterprise I do want to just mention Government and Public Safety LTE that Mark referenced earlier.
We had talked about Public Safety LTE being no more than $100 million primarily in the second half of this year in '13.
And as we revised our total outlook for the year of 3% to 4% revenue growth we've gone through what we think that yields on the Enterprise side.
We think that LTE overall is probably now no more than $50 million for the full year largely in the second half driven by taking a little bit longer to close some international sales and the continued elongated process with FirstNet here in the States.
And I just want to make sure I communicated that all to you in a very open and transparent way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And can I ask one follow-up? Just on Q2 the Government revenue growth rate is a little bit less than what it was in Q1.
And I knew you got a tough comp there.
The Q2 '12 was the strongest quarter.
But wondered if you can just put a little color around that.
I'm thinking sort of bigger picture.
Is there any are there any funding issues at the state and government levels a sequester or anything driving that? It sounds like Q1 was partly or largely due to this Asia Pacific issue with the professional and commercial.
Is it more of that in Q2? Or what are some of the different trends that are slowing the growth rate in Q2? Yes so I think you hit on the first piece is we've talked about the slightly tougher comp 14% growth in the previous year in Government.
As we talked about while the business is a very very steady given some of the very large projects it can also be a little lumpy.
And we have a little bit of that when we talked about we're still -- the full year is solid.
We saw a very strong first quarter.
So we have a piece of that as well.
Also what you talked about around the PCR is you spoke of that was primarily the driver in Asia -- the Asia region of Government but PCR also slowed as we talked about in the end of the first quarter.
So that's a little bit in the second quarter as well.
Also in the second quarter the impact of rebanding in the second quarter and as we go forward becomes a little bit more pronounced than it was in the first quarter when you talk about year-on-year comparables.
While we talked about last year rebanding impacting approximately 3% of our growth it looks like as we were also working against that headwind which also plays in the PCR market as well as some of our systems business.
So all in all I think as I've said earlier the Government business will continue to perform very resilient but the second quarter in particular is really driven by comps some large projects as we talk about the funnel's still growing and just the normal nature.
Usually when we look at really volumes in the Government business first quarter and second quarter historical national volumes have been very similar.
So coming against that comp really kind of -- or moves to the difference in growth rates.
I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
All right thanks.
I just wanted to remind everyone the details outlined highlighted items.
Our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on the motorolasolutions.com investor website.
Audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on the site.
As for the call as mentioned at the outset during the call we have made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable Federal Securities law.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to comments and answers relating to the following topics: future sales growth including segment and region; earnings per share outlook; future operating margins; our expected declines in iDEN; amount of other income and expense; future tax rates; capital allocation framework including movement to net debt; foreign exchange rates; refunds of foreign tax deposits; the timing and impact of new products and solutions introductions including OS developments; impact of regional organizational changes; improvements in our business; share repo and dividends.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Info about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 8 through 12 and item 1-A of our 2012 Annual Report Form 10-K in our other SEC filings.
Thanks and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions' Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss second quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Ed Fitzpatrick Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations.
Greg and Ed will review our results along with commentary and Mark will join us for the Q&amp;A session.
Earlier this morning we posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
It's important for you to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I'd like to now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Solid results in Q2 Government helped to succeed our earnings outlook while our Enterprise business declined resulting in overall sales at the lower end of our outlook.
As I think about the quarter there are 4 key messages: First weakness in Enterprise continued; second our Government business remained strong over record results last year; third we're still targeting 18% operating margin for the full year; and finally our overall confidence in these businesses is reflected by our announcement today of a $2 billion increase in our share repurchase authorization along with a 19% increase in our dividend.
In Enterprise we expected improvement this quarter but that didn't happen.
While we continue to have positive dialogue with customers along with additional user trials for our expansion products we still have yet to see a meaningful pickup in sales conversion and large Enterprise deals.
This demand environment we face in Enterprise is not unique to us as the broader industry is impacted by customers carefully managing their IT budgets in the face of macro uncertainty.
As a result of this environment we now expect a more modest recovery in this business toward the latter part of the year.
Having said that strategically our Enterprise business remains well positioned to capture a rebound in Enterprise spending as that occurs.
In light of this elongated recovery in Enterprise we now expect full year sales growth for the total company of approximately flat to up 1%.
The Government business continues to perform well especially when you consider the record revenue and profitability levels from last year.
Backlog in Government remains healthy.
And both ASTRO and TETRA had solid growth in infrastructures sales which is typically a leading indicator for future subscriber demand.
This business continues to demonstrate its resilient characteristics where incumbency innovation support for future migrations and legacy compatibility are important differentiators for Motorola.
Our 18% operating margin target for 2013 is unchanged although clearly our path to achieving it is now primarily driven by Government and proactively taking costs out to offset our lower growth expectations.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed to provide additional details on our Q2 results.
And then I'll return to discuss the quarter a little bit further.
Thanks Greg.
Q2 sales declined 2%.
Q2 Government sales were $1.5 billion a decrease of 1% from the prior year quarter.
Operating margins in the Government segment improved 120 basis points from 16.4% to 17.6%.
Better gross margins due to mix and lower general and administrative costs led to the improvement in profitability.
Enterprise revenues declined 5% to $656 million.
Excluding the impact of Psion and iDEN Q2 revenues declined 9%.
Operating margins in the Enterprise business declined from 16% to 11.9%.
Lower product sales volume the addition of Psion and the decline in iDEN drove this margin decrease.
Operating expenses were $709 million or 33.7% of revenue which is flat from the year-ago quarter.
We will continue to actively manage our cost structure and invest appropriately based on our business needs which will include modulating spending in a way that factors in the macro and Enterprise environment.
Our operating earnings for the second quarter were $334 million or 15.9% of sales compared to $350 million or 16.3% in Q2 2012.
Total other income and expense was a net expense of $42 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $38 million in Q2 2012.
We expect this line item to be an expense of approximately $40 million per quarter going forward.
Our effective tax rate was negative for the quarter driven by $118 million of net tax benefits largely as a result of our new international holding company structure which represents the year-to-date amount of the full year tax benefit.
Based on current outlook -- based on our current outlook we expect our effective tax rate to be in the range of 10% to 13% in Q3 and Q4.
After 2013 we expect our ongoing effective tax rate to return to approximately 32% to 33%.
Cash generated by operating activities from continuing operations for second quarter was $82 million as compared to $254 million of cash generated in the second quarter of 2012.
Lower cash flow results for the quarter were primarily driven by lower sales and linearity of sales within the quarter.
Specifically we had higher sales in June than the year-ago period which drove lower AR collections.
Lower accounts payable days also contributed to the decline year-over-year.
For the full year we now see risk of up to $150 million to our operating cash flow while compared to last year.
This is primarily due to 3 items: First a lower sales -- lower full year sales outlook; second $43 million held by the India government which relates to tax amounts currently under dispute; and third $25 million to $30 million of incremental restructuring-related actions as we adjust our cost structure to match our lower growth profile.
Let me also remind you that as we compare our cash flows with prior year levels that we expect to pay an incremental $150 million in withholding and other taxes in 2013.
These tax payments are aligned with our international holding company strategy that we announced at our Analyst Day in May.
We ended the quarter with $3.2 billion in cash and $2.5 billion in debt.
With respect to capital return we repurchased $550 million of stock or 9.5 million shares at an average price of $57.80 per share.
Since we began repurchasing shares in Q3 of 2011 we have bought back $4.5 billion or 92 million shares at an average price of $48.62.
In addition we paid $71 million in dividends during the quarter.
We remain committed to capital return as part of our capital allocation framework.
This morning we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.31 per share which represents a 19% increase over the prior quarterly dividend.
We also announced that our board has authorized an increase of $2 billion to our share repurchase program.
Now turning to our Q3 and full year outlook.
For Q3 we expect sales to be flat to down 3% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Our Q3 outlook is for non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.97 to $1.02 from continuing operations based on Q2 ending share count and this incorporates the new effective tax rate of 10% to 13%.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS in Q3 2012 of $0.84 per share.
Moving to full year 2013 we now expect sales to be flat to up 1%.
We expect Government to grow low-single digits and we now expect a low single-digit decline in Enterprise.
In addition we previously expected favorability from foreign exchange tailwinds in the second half of 2013 based on a more favorable euro rate.
However we have seen significant weakening of the Australian dollar and Japanese yen as well as weakness in the British pound and now expect an unfavorable FX impact of approximately $30 million in the second half revenues.
We remain focused on driving operating leverage and still plan for full year operating margins of approximately 18%.
And now I'll turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Ed.
As previously stated Government sales for the quarter declined $8 million from Q2 2012 or 1%.
Profitability for the business increased with operating earnings of 17.6% of sales compared to 16.4% in Q2 of last year.
In our ASTRO portfolio total sales declined single digits off of last year's comparable record 20% growth rate.
Having said that new infrastructure -- new system infrastructure sales actually increased over Q2 last year.
We had a number of new wins during the quarter including an $88 million contract with Maricopa County Arizona to implement a digital radio communications network with coverage across the county.
The Phase 2 TDMA network will replace a 15-year-old system and increase capacity with the available spectrum.
We also received a $20 million order from the City of Phoenix Regional Wireless Cooperative to upgrade their 13-year-old ASTRO system that serves the interoperable communications needs of first responders and other municipal users in 19 cities towns and fire districts.
In Canada we were awarded a $28 million contract with the York Region in Toronto to replace a 20-year-old system and another with the City of Québec for $10 million.
And Carroll County Maryland awarded us a contact for a $12 million system upgrade.
The P25 standard and our ASTRO portfolio continue to extend beyond North America into over 60 countries.
For example the Taiwan Coast Guard selected us for a $10 million ASTRO system and the Kuwait Ministry of Defense awarded us a $17 million contract for an upgrade to ASTRO 7.14 our newest infrastructure product scheduled for Q4 release.
This latest version of our ASTRO system includes enhanced mission-critical redundancy and a seamless migration path that can be performed with no system downtime.
The system architecture is also designed for improved serviceability and scalability including future LTE upgrades.
Mission-critical users expect technology that must be intuitive to use easy to deploy interoperable with legacy systems and future-proof.
And we continue to innovate around these requirements while tailoring our portfolio for adjacent verticals.
For example Entergy a large utility in the South is investing in a $44 million ASTRO 25 Phase 2 TDMA network to replace their legacy analog platform.
The new system consists of APX radios and dispatch consoles for daily requirements as well as communications during storm restoration.
And the Imperial Irrigation District in the California desert a community-owned electric and water utility recently chose us for their ASTRO system.
The Port of Seattle's $4 million investment in an ASTRO system this quarter is another example of our radio systems used to secure medical mission-critical infrastructure.
Our TETRA portfolio grew strong double digits in total driven by new systems and installation.
We had several notable wins in TETRA during the quarter as well.
In Singapore the Ministry of Home Affairs recently awarded a contract for a Next Generation Nationwide Network and selected our latest broadband-ready TETRA digital radio technology.
The initial phase of the award is valued at $79 million for us and our local consortium partner to deploy the nationwide network which will serve the police and Singapore Civil Defence Force with a total of 42 000 officers.
Other TETRA awards include Entropia Digital a Dutch network operator serving commercial users such as transportation utilities and power generation industries and we had continued success in the rail transportation market with large awards from Shatin Central rail in Hong Kong for $15 million and Taiwan High Speed Rail for $8 million.
At Critical Communications World in Paris we introduced our next generation of TETRA infrastructure including the first combined TETRA and LTE base station.
This innovative solution is designed to facilitate a cost-effective and staged migration to a unified TETRA and LTE network.
It equips network operators for future needs and gives them flexibility to choose when and where to add LTE to their core networks and on which frequency.
Our professional and commercial radio sales were down slightly compared to Q2 2012 where we had record double-digit growth.
We continue to tier our PCR portfolio around the digital platform.
Several years ago we were the first introduce a digital radio in the professional market and today our MOTOTRBO is the most widely deployed adopted digital platform with more than 2 000 systems deployed and 2 million units sold globally.
We're extending MOTOTRBO and bringing benefits of digital such as better capacity coverage and voice quality to additional tiers as well.
This expanded MOTOTRBO lineup will bring digital features to an existing install base that is still about 90% analog today.
In terms of new contract awards for PCR we've seen continued rollout across multiple production facilities in North America for Chrysler utilizing MOTOTRBO and General Mills is also deploying it for their on-site communications.
We continue to invest in applications and control points that are important tools for public safety like the command center.
We released our PremierOne Next Generation 9-1-1 Call Control solution designed to transform incident management operations by integrating CAD and 9-1-1 systems eliminating data entry for dispatchers during emergency calls and improving their focus and productivity.
Another area where public safety is incorporating more technology is in the police vehicle as an integrated communications hub.
We recently made a very small but strategic acquisition of 54ward Integrated Solutions a provider of software and hardware interface components that connect in-vehicle public safety equipment including radio light and siren radar license place recognition and mobile computing.
And our Real-Time Crime Center solution was featured at the recent annual Conference of Mayors in Las Vegas where their Technology and Innovation Task Force explored the topic of using data and analytics to fight crime.
Finally wrapping up our Government results for the quarter the business continues to perform well and the demand drivers of an aged legacy infrastructure and its corresponding need for upgrades continue.
Now moving on to the Enterprise segment.
Sales in Enterprise were $656 million a decrease of 5% from Q2 of last year.
Operating earnings declined to 11.9% of sales from 16% last year driven by negative leverage from lower sales Psion sales and lower iDEN revenues.
Enterprise sales results were driven by double-digit declines in the enterprise mobile computing portfolio excluding iDEN an expected iDEN decline of $31 million a mid-single-digit decline in data capture and a mid-single-digit decline in WLAN.
Our uniqueness in Enterprise is characterized by designing technology around the specific user experiences whether it's for a truck driver at a logistics company or a manager or customer in a retail store.
Integration with legacy applications is also vital for our customers many of whom have millions of dollars in back-office investments that they intend to leverage.
A great example of this is our work that we're doing with Tesco.
They continue to rollout our MC17 devices with a $3 million order to expand their scan-as-you-shop program across large-format stores in the U.K.
The MC17 also supports their dotcom program which enables shoppers to have groceries delivered to their door.
Tesco is piloting our new SB1 Smart Badge and mobile workforce management software with their customer service teams to improve in-store communication and customer response times.
One area of strength for Enterprise this quarter was in Asia Pac Middle East where the business grew double digits.
We had several new wins in the region with retailers like Coles Supermarkets for $3 million Kmart Australia for $2 million.
And our new value tier MC2100 positioned us well to win a $3 million award for China Post and a $1 million order for Deppon Logistics in China.
And Australia Post continued their deployment of our MC67 devices with another $5 million order.
We've also updated several of our industrial mobile computing products.
We recently introduced the MC9200 an expansion to the world's most popular industrial mobile computing product with more than 2 million devices shipped over the last decade.
We also released a new imaging device built on the legacy of our most popular scanner.
This next-generation linear imager expands our portfolio to provide another option for retailers looking to read both printed 1D bar codes and electronic bar codes displayed on mobile device screens a common application for loyalty cards and mobile coupons.
We've seen encourage -- encouraging early demand indicators from the channel for this specific product.
Two new Psion products are designed for use in cold temperatures freezers and cold storage environments which are common in perishable food and medical industries present some of the most extreme specs for computing hardware.
United States Cold Storage recently chose these devices for their requirements.
With respect to some of our new expansion products we've engaged with numerous customer pilots.
We remain enthusiastic about the opportunity associated with these products but the rate of sales conversion has taken longer than we initially anticipated.
The Android-based MC40 multifunction device that's designed for inventory management as well as point-of-sale and voice had several pilot deployments among major retailers in Europe and North America while the SB1 is deployed at a major shoe retailer at 130 locations in North America and a pharmacy chain with several locations here in the U.S.
We won a $7 million project with Canadian Tire to deploy more than 5 000 of our devices in their stores as a digital hub for an improved customer shopping experience as well.
Moving on to the regional results this quarter for the total company.
With respect to the Americas North America sales declined 1% with continued strength in Government up single digits while the Enterprise business declined high-single digits in North America.
Following a terrific quarter in Q1 Latin America was down 24% off of a tough compare last year where Government actually grew over 40%.
Large deals can drive quarterly variability in this region based on its relative small size.
However we remain confident in the double-digit growth outlook for the full year for Latin America excluding iDEN.
Turning to Europe and Africa we grew 4% driven by single-digit growth in both Government and Enterprise.
Excluding Psion the Enterprise business declined double digits.
And finally in Asia Pac and Middle East sales declined 2% with a high-single-digit decline in Government and double-digit growth in Enterprise.
Sales in China were up double digits.
These regional results were consistent with our Q2 expectations as we make progress at returning this region to growth for the full year.
I made 2 trips during the quarter to this region meeting with customers and government officials and our new leadership team and I'm encouraged about our continued gaining momentum in that area.
Our Services line of business grew single digits in Q2.
We renewed several significant support agreements for systems including the East Bay Regional Communications System for $8 million and a $10 million maintenance agreement with the state of Mississippi for their statewide system that currently provides mission-critical communications to over 17 000 public safety users.
Within our Managed Services business the South Australian Government Radio Network extended their managed network service contract and U.K.
Mail continued to adopt our Mobility Lifecycle Management solution to help monitor manage and improve the availability of devices deployed across their 52 sites and 2 500 vehicles.
This comprehensive solution includes our Enterprise mobile computing devices combined with life cycle management enabling the customer to utilize the latest in mobile technology while maintaining a focus on their customers and strategic business objectives.
In terms of specific milestones we continue to implement the Norway contract with over 200 live sites and best-in-class system availability metrics since we acquired the prime responsibility in Q1 of 2012.
So let me share with you a few closing thoughts as I wrap up our prepared comments on this call.
First I'm proud of our team's ability to execute and meet our Q2 expectations despite record comps in Government last year and a challenging industry environment in Enterprise.
Second we remain committed to innovation and leadership in both our Government and Enterprise business as we know this is the best way to generate returns for our shareholders over the long term.
Third while there are factors impacting our Enterprise business that we don't control we're going to work hard on managing the things that we can.
And we will be rigorous in driving profitability across the entire company and remain committed to our 18% operating margin target.
And fourth our confidence in our business and our commitment to shareholder return remain strong as evidenced by today's announcement for a 19% dividend increase and a $2 billion increase in the share repurchase authorization.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator could you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Kulbinder Garcha Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First of all Greg I guess and Ed for you in terms of the guidance the implied fourth quarter -- toward fourth quarter ramp in sales and operating income is very high.
You obviously play with the ranges but it looks like you're implying that sales would grow maybe 20% quarter-on-quarter the operating margins would scale to being well over 21%.
I know there's those various scenarios that get you to that very high number in Q4 but can you maybe explain what gives you the confidence of that ramp today in terms of order book visibility customer conversation.
However you want to frame that discussion that would be helpful.
And the second question is I guess for Greg and I mean this with the greatest respect forecasting of the Enterprise business has proved very challenging.
So can you speak about what you've done now in this new guidance to give us the confidence that we're not going to be here in 3 months' time and maybe that Q4 number gets pulled down? Kulbinder that's a fair question.
I'll take the second part first.
At the end of the day we're disappointed in the performance of the Enterprise business and what we now see is a few things.
First an elongated spending recovery.
Second quite frankly and we have detailed conversations and engagements with customers but the conversion of some of these critical engagements are taking longer.
In addition to that I think many customers are taking what we thought would be larger purchases and breaking them into smaller chunks.
And quite frankly and Mark Moon maybe can reference this later in the call as well we had a number of customers where we still have very good visibility to a deal and we still believe that we're more likely to win the deal but not only Kulbinder has it slipped out of the quarter because of tight CapEx spending some of these customers have deferred until early 2014.
And quite frankly we didn't anticipate that.
On the new product side we still have good engagement on the SB1 and the MC40 the biplane scanner but quite frankly some of those are converting to more pilots and trials as opposed to projects and deployments.
And then lastly as Ed referenced in his comments what we had thought would be FX tailwinds for the second half are now FX or foreign exchange headwinds.
So we've taken those into account as we've more thoughtfully guided the second half of the year.
And that's where we are.
So on the sales by quarter the 20% we could talk to you offline but the mathematics it more implies a mid-single digit or a little bit higher on a comprehensive basis or across both those businesses.
Mark can talk to them but one of the key items if you look at the biggest business Government as we look into the future and we look at our backlog and the aged backlog that we're seeing at this point in time of the year versus this point in time of the year last year it's up significantly.
It's up I think over $100 million versus where we were last year so the confidence in having visibility into the fourth quarter for Government.
And as Greg just mentioned the Enterprise opportunities are still there.
We weren't forecasting growth in Enterprise based upon just a general macroeconomic improvement.
It was based upon real deals that as Greg mentioned pushed out some of them into Q4 as you mentioned.
So we are planning for growth in both Government and Enterprise in Q4 but some of those deals did push out into 2014 and that was the rationale for the guidance coming down.
I'll let Mark add any more color there.
I think the details to what Ed just said in total mathematics are correct.
If you break it down by segment if you think about the Enterprise business in fourth quarter and really for the second half in general it's really -- we're only anticipating normal linearity from first half to second half I would remind you coming off of a soft first half.
So while it looks to big it's really normal growth adjusted for normal seasonality with a bottom's up build.
I would also remind you that Q3 and Q4 of the previous year was actually down 10% in each of those quarters without Psion and without iDEN.
So we're coming off of a weaker compare as we talk about those particular quarters.
In Government Government is a stronger Q4 and it really is just the loading of projects.
When you look at that from a Government perspective we definitely have been resilient all throughout as Greg mentioned in his earlier comments.
But Q4 in particular has strong aged backlog already.
We have good visibility to Q4.
In fact as we entered Q3 we had similar types of backlog already aged into Q4 which we expect to build throughout the quarter.
We also have good funnel visibility to the projects that are actually going to happen.
And as Greg mentioned in his comment a major ASTRO infrastructure release 7.14 which will be our newest infrastructure release will occur within the quarter.
So we really do have good visibility to what we're forecasting for second half and fourth quarter.
So Kulbinder just one added piece of detail.
As you look at it and we look at the ranges of the guidance if we're at the left side of the range the down 3% you'd need to do 7% to get to the right side of the guidance of 1% growth for the full year.
If we go flat for the full year and we're down at 3% we need to grow 2.7% in Q4.
So that's how it all kind of comports as we do the mathematics.
Our next question comes from Andrew Spinola Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just looking at the different pieces of the Government business.
You had said TETRA was up double digits for the year.
P25 I think it sounds like was a little soft.
But infrastructure on the whole was up for the year.
When I think about those data points together I'm wondering especially when I compare 2013 with 2012 in your Government business maybe and the infrastructure being up is the weakness in the handhelds maybe bigger because of the narrowbanding mandate in 2012? Do you think that maybe more demand was pulled into '12 than you originally thought? And any color there.
And I have a follow-up on the PCR business.
So I think in particular the narrowbanding in North America did have an impact as we talked about throughout the year on all of our portfolio but particularly on the subscriber base.
I would describe the subscriber performance for this year as not really being weak but really coming off of a very strong compare.
And as Greg mentioned we are excited about the infrastructure growth that's still continuing to go which usually is a indicator for future subscriber add-ons.
So all in all I think your analysis around the narrowbanding in North America as well as the first push around analog to digital around the world led to some good strong subscriber sales last year and we're banging up against that comparable as we look at subscribers sales for this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the decline in PCR could you maybe break down a little bit where you are seeing the softness? Is it in your Government customers or Enterprise customers and maybe what's driving that? Again as you think about last year very strong year for our PCR business both narrowbanding driven very similar to the comment you just made on ASTRO as well as conversion from analog to digital around the world.
So as you look at those comparables both ways the comment I just made earlier our subscribers are flat year-on-year.
And we really expect PCR to be roughly flat year-on-year so we're still seeing good demand.
I think it is coming against the tough comparable that we had the previous year.
So we don't really see any fundamental drivers changing in either of those businesses.
The only thing I'd add is we saw PCR dip slightly a little bit in Asia.
And I would attribute that primarily due to some factors in Japan.
And we are refreshing and tiering some new subscriber PCR products that will begin to be rolled out later this year that I think will improve that individual regional situation.
Our next question comes from Tavis McCourt Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed a couple of clarifications for you then a big picture one for Greg.
In terms of your comments on operating cash flow can you kind of refresh us of either what the original operating cash flow guidance was for the year or what we should be thinking about now? And then also on tax rate I think you mentioned 10% to 13%.
Is that the effective tax rate we should expect for Q3 and Q4 or for the full year on an average basis? Okay so on cash flow let me refresh.
We had talked about and what we mentioned at the Financial Analyst Meeting in general our model will be to grow operating cash flow in line with net income.
At the Analyst Meeting we had talked about given the softness in the top line where we work it at -- we took it down from 5% down to previously to the 4% -- 3% to 4%.
We had talked about getting cash flow relatively flat year-over-year.
That was even with the $150 million of tax payments that we're making aligned with our strategy our international holdco strategy to reduce ongoing taxes.
At this point given the continued softness in sales the biggest contributor for the full year will be the lower level of sales that we now expect.
With that we now see $150 million of risk to the full year driven by that top line softness.
Second we had mentioned $43 million of taxes that were seized by the India government that just given the delays that are taking place there in the courts there's no guarantee that we'll be able to get that back before the end of the year.
The third item that I'd mention relates to the restructuring costs that we've incurred and plan to incur for the rest of the year related to the sizing of the business given the softness in the business.
And with that we expect to pay as I said about $25 million to $30 million more of restructuring costs for the full year.
So those are the key highlights.
So with that we've guided relatively to be relatively flat.
We do see $150 million of risk related to that for the items that I had just mentioned.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry the tax rate question? And on the tax it is it would be -- we're expecting it to be the 10% to 13% for Q3 and Q4.
And as I mentioned for 2014 going forward we expect the effective tax rate to be in that 32% to 33% range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Greg I wonder if you could give us kind of a first responder LTE update.
Anything noteworthy since the May Analyst Day? Yes and that's a good question because that's also incorporated into the adjustment to the full year revenue outlook of -- from 3% to 4% to flat to 1%.
It's primarily driven by Enterprise and we've now basically extracted out any planned LTE revenue contribution for this year.
As I said in earlier comments including at FAM in May I always believed that our LTE revenues from a material standpoint would be largely internationally led first.
I still believe that.
And our engagements particularly in the APME region remain constant.
But we're no longer and I'm no longer counting on closing that or those engagements this year and converting it to revenue.
I think it's more prudent not to plan for that.
And having said that things in the U.S.
continue to move forward in general but NTIA has continued to freeze the BTOP grants.
And FirstNet continues to move forward in their engagement.
The only new development I think is LA-RICS.
And LA-RICS negotiated a spectrum agreement with FirstNet which we believe is positive.
But having said that -- that's important.
They still need to -- they LA need to work through how they're going to fund it whether it's organically through their own means or a grant from the feds.
But even after all that they'll then do a bid that will be forthcoming.
And we would expect revenue from that if we were to be fortunate to win it more in 2014.
So interest remains high and engagement remains high both domestically and internationally.
And we'll move forward accordingly.
But we've kind of taken LTE revenue out of our forecast for the remainder of '13.
Our next question comes from Jim Suva of Citigroup.
This is Asi on behalf of Jim.
Very quickly can you tell us what iDEN was for this quarter? And what the expected contribution is for the year? IDEN was down $31 million in Q2 and we still expect it to be approximately $185 million in revenue for the full year this year down from $265 million last year.
Okay great.
And then on the OpEx side I know you continue to maintain your operating margin guidance of 18%.
Can you talk to us about some of the items that are impacting OpEx down so much? And sort of looking further out how should we think about your OpEx run rate into 2014? Well I'm not going to guide to 2014 yet but what I will say is we remain committed to the 18% operating margin target for this year.
I think quite frankly we've been pretty proactive along the way for the first half of the year in managing costs.
We have taken action or are in the process of taking action that will result in annualized run rate savings of about $50 million for next year.
And I think it's also important to note that for the full year this year we expect total OpEx dollars to be down from last year.
So we will continue to modulate the cost structure to reflect the pacing of revenues and size the business accordingly.
And that's our plan.
And quite frankly I feel pretty confident in that.
Our next question comes from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So you commented on the macro challenges in the Enterprise segment and some of the large deals that have pushed out into the Q4 and 2014.
Are all of those deals still in the pipeline? Or have any of them gone to competitive solutions? And then just specifically to the traction that you talked about with the MC40 and the SB1.
Just wanted to get a little bit more color there of who you're going up against.
What you're seeing if anything in terms of off-the-shelf solutions either iOS or Android-based and just how those competitive discussions are going? So when you think about the push outs for Enterprise Simona in North America in particular we had 4 very large nationwide retailers that actually selected us but in very detailed conversations said they were going to push out their deployments for later in the year or a couple of them into next year.
We also had a very similar conversation with a big-box retailer in the U.K.
So to answer your question we're not competitively losing these deals.
It really is a delay in IT CapEx kind of spending that's driving this piece.
Much different than what we really anticipated when we gave our previous guidance.
I think as we think about competition we believe that we're still holding share.
So as Greg mentioned we think this is a phenomenon that's being experienced throughout.
And we're excited about that particular piece but disappointed that it is pushing out.
When you think about new products the SB1 as you mentioned is primarily a task-specific tool to give workers the ability to do tasks on the go.
Not really competing against consumer devices necessarily it's really a device to give more efficiency and effectiveness to a broader base of workers.
Our MC40 does move into the expansion category of customer-facing where you would see competition against consumer devices other types of products.
You asked about trials.
We're trialing with several major customers both in the U.S.
and in the U.K.
In fact the SB1 was really designed around the requirements for Tesco in the U.K.
and they're trialing it.
We're also doing a number of pilots here in the U.S.
with the MC40 some of which have tried consumer devices.
So I think it's very positive.
The piece that has been less positive at -- is that the pilots continue and I will say continue successfully but the conversion to actual projects have clearly been delayed.
Our next question comes from Ehud Gelblum of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First a Ed just a clarification on the tax credits this quarter.
I think I got $118 million is what you said.
Is that -- I had down a 0% tax rate so I think that was -- if you can just kind of go over where the tax credits this quarter came from and how they differ from what we had before and I might just be remembering things wrong from the Analyst Day that'll be great.
And then Greg when you -- by going towards an operating margin target of 18% and making that the #1 goal even on a lower revenue rate can you give us some insight into where the areas are that you cut to get there.
And if in fact that's partially in R&amp;D how can you be sure you're not maybe mortgaging the future by cutting back a little bit too much when you should be actually investing to grow the business as opposed to just focusing on the cost cutting.
And then as you look at again at these push outs from these retailers and some of the other things that are slowing down the business how do you get comfortable with the fact that this is either a secular trend towards consumer especially because retail of all the different sectors is probably the primary area where people are at least testing consumer devices like iPhones and Android devices as well as the Microsoft OS shift and how that's impacting this.
Is that perhaps what's causing some of these push outs? Are they looking for the OS to get more stable? How do you get comfortable with the difference between a secular trend and one that's just cyclical with Enterprise push outs? So let me Hudi let me take the cost reduction one first.
I mentioned that we've already taken action that we think will result in annualized savings for $50 million on an annual run rate.
When I think of the larger areas that we've taken action in they're largely in manufacturing capacity.
They're in supply chain and procurement.
They're in sales and marketing.
R&amp;D is on the lower end of the reductions and the actions that we've taken.
So we remain committed to continue to lead and get high return on invested capital of R&amp;D spend which I anticipate will be right around $1 billion again.
So I don't think we're impairing -- we're impugning any of our capacity from a new product and innovation standpoint.
And we're not confused at all about that point.
Your second point about cyclical versus structural is in part jumping on Mark Moon's earlier answer to Simona.
We're engaged on some of these new expansion products.
We're very mindful of the engagements.
In fact some of these pilots are customers that have rolled out or trialed consumer product.
And for a variety of reasons whether it be voice whether it be optimized voice integration with WiFi post-sale support ruggedization in fact they're reengaging us around the MC40.
So I still believe and we still believe that this compression in Enterprise is more cyclical than structural because of the engagement and the direct discussions we have with customers.
To your point I think Microsoft's OS transition is a component.
They had the big reorganization just a few weeks ago.
They're reintroducing or modifying Win Phone 8.
When they do that typically they then add the Enterprise version in our case Windows Embedded Handheld that trails that.
So that OS for Enterprise utilization for us is a mid-2014 kind of phenomenon.
We do think that's a contributor but we still believe it's largely cyclical versus structural.
But we watch it very closely Hudi.
So Hudi on the tax item if you remember at the Analyst Day I had talked roughly orders of magnitude talked about $100 million benefit that we record in the second quarter.
It was $118 million.
It was a bit better than we expected.
The full year benefit I quantified at approximately $300 million.
It will be a bit better than that for the full year.
And with that we kind of embedded that into the 10% to 13% effective tax rate that we'll see for Q3 and for Q4 that which we tightened the benefit from 10% to 15% that we had talked about at the Analyst Day.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I guess I just had gotten it wrong before at the Analyst Day so that's helpful.
Can I sneak in one more thing about the LTE funnel.
Greg you'd spoken in the past about a $1 billion LTE funnel and then some time ago raised that to $1.5 billion LTE funnel mainly driven by international.
Is that something that we can still look towards at some point? Or is that -- has it gotten a little fuzzier with the recent changes in the LTE landscape? Yes Hudi this is Mark.
I think the funnel size has really remained unchanged or actually would have increased slightly.
What's happened though as it continues to elongate actually tractions.
So you understand what's going on in North America and I think as FirstNet continues to delay we know about that delay and we talked about this primarily being international.
And I think the international engagements that we've had have been slower than we thought to bring to actual contract which is why now we push the revenue out of the year.
But funnel activity and engagement and really no competitive losses have really stayed intact.
Our next question comes from Keith Housum of Northcoast Research.
A question for you on the Asian management change that you guys discussed occurring earlier in the year.
I guess how is that progressing and are you satisfied with traction that you're seeing in the Government space in terms of trying to penetrate lower into the smaller regions.
And then obviously as it plays out in the WLAN business as well? Perfect.
So as we talked about earlier and we've talked each quarter about Asia I think the management transition and actually our restructure within the region is progressing very well.
In fact while we talked about in Q1 the Government business was down further than we expected we also commented that we expected it to improve each quarter as we went throughout the year and for us to build backlog as we were going through the year.
That has indeed happened.
Our losses in second quarter are less than what they were in first quarter and as we move to third quarter they will continue to improve.
We are also exiting the quarter with more backlog.
So the plan is in place and the team is doing well.
I'm also very pleased with the Enterprise traction that we're gaining as we move to our different kind of geographic structure to get more attention.
So the Enterprise business in total is also improving throughout the region.
I think in the emerging markets that we talked about that we really wanted to get after that will be more new order activity as we exit the year to build for future growth.
But again I think we're making good traction and I'm pleased so far with the actions that have been taken.
Great.
And how does that parley into the WLAN business? Is that recurring at all because you've obviously had a few past quarters of some significantly down year-over-year comparisons? This is Greg.
WLAN improved from last quarter but it still declined.
It declined 5%.
And we know that's not satisfactory especially given the fact that the industry as a whole is growing probably double-digit or low-double-digit growth so we continue to lose share there.
Now interestingly enough we have some very very nice opportunities and customer discussions that are going on right now.
Cautiously optimistic and as I've said before we're in transition from WLAN as a product play to more of a services play.
And -- but we're closely monitoring the business and we need to do better and we know that.
Our next question comes from Tim Long of BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions if I could.
First on the margin expectations going forward you talked a little bit about OpEx.
Just give us a little view on gross margin.
Do you see any potential for that contributing in the second half and as we look out into next year? And then second Greg if I could a longer-term question on LTE.
What's your view as these networks become more standardized networks? What do you think the impact would be on MSI's more device-related business? Does it make it much more competitive since it's a much more open type of technology? I think I'll take the second one.
I think LTE in general is a favorable trend to our business.
On the voice side there's literally billions of dollars installed base for narrowband interoperable voice.
It's built around a P25 standard.
You know the position that we have there in ASTRO and TETRA.
The idea in the U.S.
behind FirstNet is a very good one.
It dedicates spectrum in the 700-megahertz slice.
It designates an open standard of LTE.
And it provides money.
So historically in public safety some of the gates have been spectrum standards and funding.
And the legislation here in the U.S.
contemplates and largely solves for that.
I think what also will happen as these broadband networks get contemplated in the U.S.
and internationally and specifically specifically around public safety preemption versus a carrier model of prioritization control group call direct redundancy encryption.
I think those characteristics about interoperable LTE broadband are generally favorable to us because we have that expertise we have that domain expertise and we can build an end-to-end LTE network of infrastructure software and subscribers to your point.
So we view it as a favorable trend both domestically and internationally.
Well on the margin front I'd say the expectation to be relatively stable.
The fourth quarter typically we do a bit better.
Shipments are typically higher.
You'll see a higher component likely of product sales as we talked about compression a bit in the Enterprise space because product sales have been the majority of the decline.
As that returns we'll expect a little bit better.
And overall with factory utilization being a bit higher fourth quarter you typically will see a bit higher in the fourth quarter as you traditionally would.
Throughout our core businesses in general margin performance has been very good.
We're pleased with that.
We'll be down slightly year-on-year but as we mentioned in the past that's primarily driven by Psion and iDEN.
So again throughout the core portfolio margins have held fairly consistent.
Our final question comes from Peter Misek of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> The big question that we have is around the timing of the Enterprise product launches for the balance of the year.
Really want to help understand that.
I kind of have difficulty again on that Q4 ramp as many of my peers are and really would appreciate that.
In terms of product launches we've already launched largely the products that we're referencing.
The SB1 is launched the multi-plane scanner is launched the MC40 is launched and the other discussions that some of which Mark has referenced are all with products that are already available so we're not betting on the come here.
And again when you incorporate the flat to negative 3% for this quarter and then you look at what growth needs to be in Q4 and we are typically a seasonally very very strong Q4 business it contemplates a mid-single digit kind of growth rate.
Again on Enterprise coming off of a negative 10% compare in Q3 and a negative 10% compare in Q4 so that's kind of the foundation of logic that we have moving forward.
Research Division</strong> And if I may squeeze one in on the competitive landscape for LTE.
There's been some discussion that and I know you said generally you felt LTE was a tailwind for you folks there is a hypothesis out there that LTE actually removes some of your advantages.
Can you help us understand the key differentiators that you would have versus a Harris or a Raytheon in the LTE deployment maybe in and around the peer-to-peer technologies that you have ruggedization et cetera just love to maybe a little bit of elaboration there? Well I think that respectfully to our competitors there's no one that has the R&amp;D spend the patent portfolio the domain expertise and the product portfolio that we have in LTE.
Remember we started investing over 3 years ago in infrastructure software and devices whether it be USB dongle a converged LEX 700 a vehicular modem and the like.
In addition to that we have a strategic partnership with Ericsson worldwide with 8 years left.
So as you take the worldwide leader in public safety in Motorola Solutions and the worldwide leader in commercial LTE in Ericsson and we're optimizing our 2 product portfolios to be able to marry and merge and interoperate between a private network and a public network and seamlessly roam accordingly I think the distinction and differentiation is substantial.
And we expect to maintain or extend that competitive lead.
Okay I'd like to remind everyone the details outlining the highlighted items.
Our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our motorolasolutions.com Investor Relations site.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on this site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
As mentioned at the outset during this call we've made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable Federal Securities Law.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics: Future sales growth including by segment and product; future operating margins; EPS outlook; operating cash flow; the amount of other income and expense; future tax rates and tax payments; tax benefits to be realized as a result of our new holding company structure; impact of FX rates; share repurchase and dividends; recovery of our Enterprise business including timing and competitive pressure; management of our cost structure and resulting savings; the impact of narrowbanding; the timing and impact of new products and solutions introductions including OS developments; and demand transfer of business and products such as ASTRO TETRA LTE and WLAN.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 8 through 12 and Item 1-A of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Motorola Solutions' other SEC filings.
Thanks again.
We look forward to speaking to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions' Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss third quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Corporate Vice President and Acting CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark will join for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Earlier this morning we posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
It is important to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I would like to now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
And good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Today we reported third quarter sales of $2.1 billion a decrease of 2% from last year.
Sales in Government declined 4% while Enterprise sales increased 2%.
On a GAAP basis net earnings from continuing operations were $1.16 per share compared to $0.72 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $1.32 compared to $0.84 per share in Q3 of last year.
For the remainder of this call we will reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
As I share our results for the quarter I think there are 3 key themes I'd like to emphasize.
First we drove improved operating margins in both businesses as a result of solid gross margins and lower operating expenses and we remain on track to deliver on our 18% operating margin target for the full year.
Second the Government business remains very solid coming off last year's record levels with strength in Europe strength in U.S.
state and local and that is despite weaker-than-expected U.S.
federal sales.
This business is very well positioned for growth in Q4 with record backlog.
Third our Enterprise business is showing signs of improvement despite a muted spending environment in our key markets and verticals.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on our Q3 results and then I'll return to further discuss the quarter.
Thanks Greg.
In Q3 we continued our focus on driving margin improvement and operational discipline.
Although we saw an expected top line decline in the quarter we remain encouraged regarding our position in both businesses.
In terms of the quarter Q3 total company sales declined 2%.
Third quarter Government sales were $1.5 billion a decrease of 4% from the prior year quarter.
In the Europe and Africa region we saw double-digit growth driven by large project rollouts and our expanded device portfolio in TETRA.
In North America results were mixed.
We experienced strong strength in state and local government offset by weakness in our federal sales.
We did not see the typical ramp that corresponds with a federal fiscal year-end.
In addition we saw significantly lower-than-normal U.S.
federal orders and RFP activity in September.
Turning to margins.
We posted operating margins in the Government segment of 20.4% which were flat with Q3 2012.
Improved operating expenses offset the anticipated decline in revenues and corresponding gross margins.
Enterprise revenues increased 2% to $647 million.
Excluding the impact of Psion and iDEN Q3 revenues declined 4% compared to high single- and low double-digit declines over the past 4 quarters.
As Greg mentioned we believe this business is stabilizing and we are encouraged by continued customer engagement and trials for our expansion products.
Operating margins in the Enterprise business improved 290 basis points from 12.2% to 15.1%.
Higher sales volume stable gross margins and lower OpEx contributed to the margin increase.
For the total company operating expenses were $659 million which is down $50 million or 170 basis points from the year-ago quarter.
Approximately $20 million of this decrease comes from structural cost improvements while the balance is attributable to lower variable or incentive payments this year.
While I'm pleased with our efforts to reduce operating costs year-to-date we continue to actively drive operating leverage which remains a high priority.
Given the actions that we have undertaken this year we expect Q4 operating expenses of approximately $50 million lower than the prior year quarter.
Overall operating earnings for the third quarter were $397 million 18.8% of sales compared to $387 million or 18% in Q3 2012.
This represents an 80-basis-point improvement as a result of our continued focus on operating expense management.
Other income and expense was a net expense of $18 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $13 million in Q3 of 2012.
This expense was approximately $20 million lower than we expected due to the timing of gains on several investments within our ventures portfolio during the quarter.
We continue to expect this line item to be an expense of approximately $40 million per quarter going forward.
Our effective tax rate was 7% for the quarter.
The third quarter effective tax rate was favorably impacted by $96 million of net tax benefit associated with excess foreign tax credits on undistributed foreign earnings.
This benefit was a result of actions taken earlier this year to implement the foreign holding company structure we announced in May.
Based on our current outlook we expect our effective tax rate to be in the range of 10% to 11% for the full year 2013 approximately 13% for Q4.
In 2014 we expect our ongoing effective tax rate to return to 32% to 33%.
Moving to cash flow.
Cash generated by operating activities in the third quarter of 2013 was $152 million compared to $182 million in the third quarter of 2012.
For the full year we expect cash flow from operations of approximately $800 million.
We ended the quarter with $2.9 billion in total cash and $2.5 billion in debt.
With respect to capital return we repurchased $425 million or 7.5 million shares at an average price of $56.60 per share.
As a reminder we have approximately $2.1 billion remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
In addition to repurchase activity we paid $69 million in dividends during the quarter.
Now turning to our outlook.
With the ongoing uncertainty around the U.S.
federal business our full year outlook is for sales to be approximately flat to last year.
We remain on track for operating margins of approximately 18% for the year and expect non-GAAP earnings per share of $4.63 to $4.70 per share.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Thanks Gino.
In Government public safety continues to be a priority for our customers and with over 60% of the public safety networks deployed still using analog technology the opportunity for steady growth continues as customers migrate to digital.
Our mission-critical customers expect technology that is intuitive easy to deploy interoperable and future-proof.
Over 20 years ago we released the ASTRO 25 the world's first narrowband digital public safety radio network.
And today we continue to innovate around the open P25 standard and this quarter we will release our latest version of ASTRO 25 digital infrastructure.
In fact in Q4 we have over 100 million in shippable backlog associated with this major release that offers a seamless migration path and improved serviceability and scalability including future LTE upgrades.
Our Astro business declined single digits compared with last year's double-digit growth while subscriber revenues remained flat with last year's record levels.
We won 2 very large Astro awards in Q3 LA-RICS in California for $280 million and Queensland Australia for over $200 million.
Both of these contracts span 15 years.
These key wins were the result of years of planning and execution and they represent the trust and partnership customers have in us for their mission-critical needs.
We also received another large award for $52 million for Phase 3 of the State of Maryland's mission-critical radio system and the city of Indianapolis signed a 10-year $29 million service agreement for their ASTRO system.
Fulton County Georgia with a $20 million award is investing in our latest P25 offering to replace their existing Motorola trunked radio system which has been in service since 1992.
And Franklin County in Ohio placed an $8 million order to join the Ohio statewide Motorola ASTRO system for their first responders.
Other notable awards at a local level included the City of Arlington Texas for $11 million; the City of Portland Oregon for $18 million.
In Canada we won several contracts including a contract together with Bell Mobility to supply the province of Nova Scotia with an ASTRO 25 network APX subscribers and 10 years of lifecycle services.
And the Québec government selected us for a multimillion-dollar contract that includes APX radios and dispatch consoles.
In addition we won a $17 million contract with the City of Montréal which includes APX radios with installation and 10 years of maintenance.
And on the command and control application side of the business Prince George's County Maryland awarded us a $9 million contract to implement our PremierOne computer-aided dispatch system.
Our TETRA business grew double digits driven by subscriber shipments and higher services.
We recently migrated the Norwegian public safety network onto our latest TETRA platform.
And a new award from the Norwegian fire and health agencies represents a 7 000-unit expansion for users on this system.
In Germany we shipped over 20 000 TETRA handsets to the Ministry of Interior.
We also delivered 7 million of TETRA software to a country in the Middle East and received a $22 million order from a large country in North Africa.
We continue to win significant competitive awards in China demonstrating the competitiveness of our TETRA solution.
This quarter we received orders from Shanxi provincial police for $15 million and Wuxi Metro Police for $2 million.
TETRA continues to be the leading technology choice among rail customers as well globally.
And this quarter we won multimillion-dollar awards with Delhi Metro in India as well as Dalian Metro and Chengdu Metro in China.
Our professional and commercial radio business declined compared to the year ago quarter driven primarily by lower sales in North America.
However we believe that we're gaining share in this market with our best-in-class digital portfolio and we continue to invest for growth.
For example we introduced MOTOTRBO Anywhere a new complement to our digital PCR portfolio which demonstrates the power of interoperability between public and private networks.
MOTOTRBO Anywhere now enables an installed base of millions of MOTOTRBO radio users to communicate with smartphone users for secure business-critical communications.
We continue to invest in LTE which represents an important part of our future.
Over the last 3 years and since we first teamed with Ericsson in an exclusive LTE partnership we've been developing features and products for public safety's unique LTE requirements.
In the U.S.
we continue to work closely with FirstNet to ensure the successful development and implementation of an interoperable public safety broadband network that meets the needs of first responders.
On the device side we recently added a version of the LEX 700 mission-critical handheld on the Android 4.2 Jelly Bean operating system.
LEX 700 is designed to work on Band Class 14 private-public Safety LTE networks as well as commercial cellular networks and 802.11 WiFi.
We also recently collaborated with Verizon to deliver the VML 700 vehicular modem which is designed to operate on LTE-based public safety broadband networks including FirstNet and Verizon's commercial network.
These devices could be used on public networks and then migrate to private networks as they're built.
Our commitment to innovation was evident at the recent APCO show in Anaheim California where we introduced a new solution to protect firefighters using APX radios to monitor air tank information at the command center and a new enhanced data channel for the ASTRO system specifically designed for improved GPS and telemetry.
We continue to create a path for our customers to transition from analog systems to digital.
For example we introduced a new migration path for customers still using a legacy version of our analog systems which is now over 15 years old.
These users can now enjoy the benefits of new digital technology using SmartX-enabled systems made possible with trunking simulcast and repeater functionality.
This enables existing radios in the fleet to interoperate with the latest digital radios such as our APX radio subscriber.
Moving on to the Enterprise.
Sales increased 2% in our Enterprise business.
When excluding iDEN and excluding Psion the business declined 4% which is still an improvement over the last several quarters.
Enterprise mobile computing increased low-single digits and together with Psion actually increased double digits while our WLAN product business declined.
Scale innovation customization and domain expertise are key differentiators for us in Enterprise.
Integration with legacy applications is also critically important for our customers many of whom have made millions of dollars in back-office investments.
In areas where customer preference for Android in the Enterprise has emerged we intend to lead this transition along with the products and application development tools.
For example we continue to invest in R&amp;D to adapt enhance integrate and secure the Android operating system to make it truly enterprise-ready with our recent Mx Extensions which ship on all of our Android-based devices.
Our software teams have added our suite of enterprise-grade security device management and performance extensions and we've launched mobile computers running Jelly Bean the most popular version of Android supported by our new Mx Extensions in RhoMobile One of our core Enterprise mobile computing products the MC67 will soon be available on Android.
While an entirely new device the TC55 will launch on Jelly Bean later this month.
The TC55 is a pocket-sized touch computer which merges the features of a traditional Enterprise class mobile computer with the form factor and functionality of a smartphone.
We're also helping customers and partners transition applications with our fourth-generation of RhoMobile a development platform that enables applications to run on any operating system.
And meanwhile we will continue to execute on our dual OS strategy and continue our work with Microsoft.
One continued area of strength this year in Enterprise is with Asia Pac Middle East where sales grew double digits.
We attribute this in part to improved sales coverage within the region as well as a stronger product portfolio with the addition of the MC2100 and MC45 coupled with our services differentiation.
In China we are growing in Enterprise by double digits while maintaining margins.
We were awarded a contract from Blue Dart in India for mobile device management this solution will enable Blue Dart to accelerate their pace of automation and equip one of the largest field delivery workforces in India with thousands of our MC65 devices.
We signed 2 large multimillion-dollar deals with TNT a leading global international courier company based in Europe.
One deployment is in France and the other one is in Italy and both are for our MC67 mobile computers to equip the company's field operations.
In The Netherlands we received a multimillion-dollar contract award from Jumbo Supermarkets for our MC17s to improve their customer satisfaction and increase customer loyalty with their self-scanning solution.
This complements our recently developed smart badges which have also been successfully implemented in Jumbo Supermarkets as well.
Interest in our expanded Enterprise portfolio continues as evidenced by our over 100 trial deployments among new expansion products like the Android-based MC40 and the MP6000 our first-ever bioptic scanner.
In general conversion on these pilots to large-scale rollouts continues to take more time as customers take longer to evaluate new form factors and operating systems.
One of our largest awards to date for the MC40 is from a large retailer in western Europe this quarter with a $4 million contract for these devices to improve their customer service and replenishment operations.
Examples of other customers who've begun to roll out our MC40 include a chain of discount variety stores in Australia and a nationwide crafts retailer in the U.S.
deploying MC40 Android devices to deliver a better in-store customer experience.
Moving on to the regional results this quarter for the total company.
North America revenues declined 6% with single-digit declines in both Government and Enterprise.
Latin America was down 5% driven by Enterprise while Government was flat.
Europe and Africa was up 13% with double-digit growth in both Government and Enterprise.
Asia Pac Middle East declined 3% with continued double-digit growth in Enterprise along with a single-digit decline in Government.
Total service sales were up single digits over last year Q3.
The Queensland award for over $200 million represents another important Managed Services win for us in Australia and a $16 million upgrade of State of Colorado's Pikes Peak regional network represents one of our largest comprehensive lifecycle management agreements to date.
We continue also to see healthy interest in our Real-time Crime Center solution which integrates mission-critical voice with real-time streaming video together with access to arrest records photos and other multimedia inputs.
One example is the creation of a new operation center by the State of Illinois' Attorney's Office and local businesses which incorporates our Real-time Crime Center applications to assist with fighting both financial and retail crimes.
Since launching this services-led offering earlier this year we have booked $20 million in orders.
Our Mobility Lifecycle Management capabilities were a key differentiator also in a recent agreement with Yodel a leading parcel delivery company in the U.K.
They agreed to a multiyear strategic partnership worth in excess of $10 million for deployment of over 7 000 Enterprise mobile computers including our MC67 and MC45 as part of a mobile lifecycle solution to support their delivery network.
So let me wrap up with some closing comments.
I am encouraged by our Q3 results for several reasons.
First in Government we have the strongest product portfolio in our history record backlog and we expect the Government business to return to growth in Q4.
We're making excellent progress on delivering Managed Services solutions and next-generation applications for our customers and this business is very well positioned going forward.
Second in Enterprise we are seeing signs of improvement.
We remain #1 in all of our major product categories.
Backlog is up and we will continue to take actions that strengthen our go-to-market focus and overall capabilities and we're making investments in solutions that best serve our customers and their industry-specific requirements.
Third our team has moved swiftly and thoughtfully with respect to streamlining our cost structure to match the current demand environment.
These actions will position us well in terms of driving operating leverage now and down the road.
And while we've made some tough decisions with respect to lowering costs we remain fully committed to growth and are appropriately balancing the need to reduce expenses with the need to make targeted investments for future growth.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator could you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you first on the recent headcount reductions that were in the press.
Was that part of the $50 million cost-reduction plan that you announced last quarter? Or was that incremental? And along those lines are you still targeting a 19% operating margin for next year? Simona yes those actions were part of the $50 million that we described in expected annualized savings for next year.
And at this point yes we are also targeting a 19% operating margin for next year as well.
We'll go next to Pierre Ferragu with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> If I look at your Enterprise business what I understand from your comments is that you're clearly turning the corner in mobile computing.
And beyond like the structural decline in iDEN your only area where performance is still a bit disappointing is wireless LAN and that's also a segment where you're clearly not #1.
You have like a very small market share it's also a segment where the market has gotten much more competitive lately.
So I have 2 questions.
The first one is I would assume that this is a market that will at some point need some consolidation and so how do you think about that? And my second question would be if we look at WLAN at the moment what's happening there? You mentioned 6 months ago a change in business where you were moving towards services.
So how do you see the future of this business unit if you keep it as a part of Motorola Solutions? And how do you think about considering alternative strategic directions than keeping it internally going forward? Well Pierre thanks for the questions.
First of all we're pleased generally with the performance in the Enterprise business in Q3.
I love the fact that the Enterprise business for the first time in 4 or 5 quarters returned to growth of 2%.
As I mentioned the Enterprise mobile computing business is up single digits and with Psion it's up double digits.
Our market share position remains very strong and we're #1 in those key categories.
And we're pleased with the business and as well as the pipeline and the engagement around the discussions for mobile computing.
We also are -- I think Girish and his product team have done a really nice job on the new products that just are rolling out this month on Android Jelly Bean.
As it relates to WLAN it was down in the face of market growth.
As I've mentioned I do think we had some reasonable Managed Services deals in the quarter and I like the pipeline and the funnel at this point in time in terms of where we are with customers.
When you look at the verticals that we're particularly strong in like retail and transportation and logistics the WLAN business is a leader.
You're right we're still transitioning from product to more of a Managed Services-like offering.
And there's more work to do and we're not where we need to be.
So we know what we need to do and we are absolutely focused to not only growing this business but positioning it for sustainable growth in the long term.
We'll go next to Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg in Q4 guidance you specifically said Government should be up year-over-year.
How should we think about Enterprise? Should that make it back to something flattish or will it still be a decline in your view? For the quarter we expect Government to return to growth.
And on the Enterprise side I think it is slightly down for the quarter.
That's the composition that we're looking at.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Gino can you give us an update on kind of the free cash flow we should expect for this year? And then maybe the puts and takes as we think about next year's free cash flow some of the headwinds this year that might go away that would be helpful.
And then Greg kind of an update commentary on kind of the Microsoft OS strategy in the Enterprise.
Obviously you guys seem to be bringing out a lot of new Android products.
Where do you think your other OS partner is in terms of updating the OS for something a little more touch-centric and these rugged applications? Well let me take the second one first Tavis.
On Microsoft and our overall software strategy I'm pleased with Girish and the product team because they're doing a fantastic job on Android and we're rolling out a number of new products on Android Jelly Bean 4.2.
In addition to that we've also announced Mx or Motorola Extension which is enterprise-grade services around device management enterprise application control power management multiuser log-ins.
So I think we're really well positioned on Android.
Of course we have the RhoMobile solution which is an HTML5 solution that's agnostic of the operating system.
And in terms of Microsoft our expectation is that they would deliver an updated release of the operating system sometime to us midyear by which we would then follow on with product availability after that point in time.
And Tavis on cash flow we expect operating cash flow of $800 million for the year.
Just a couple -- some commentary on cash flow.
Certainly from my first day there's been a focus primary focus on cash.
We talked about in the last call $150 million of risk to the cash flow number.
Clearly going through the components working capital components as well as balance sheet components that risk has materialized.
And also reflected in the $800 million is the expectation of approximately flat revenue weakness around federal uncertainty around federal driving the approximately flat revenue number as well as some timing on some large projects.
So our expectation is $800 million of operating cash flow for the year.
And we'll go next to Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First of all strategically if you look at your position globally I believe it was earlier in the year that you had some international challenges specifically in Asia.
Can you update us in that? And also let us know if the political changes in China has had any impact on your business at all or if it just really didn't? And then the second question is can you help us understand the importance of keeping the wireless LAN business? And the reason why -- and I don't expect you to dispel every rumor out there or trade blog about your company but there was some -- several sources picking up that you guys would be potentially considering selling it.
And sometimes if that information is accurate out there it can actually be detrimental to the business as competitors use that as a doorknocking opportunity.
Let me take China and WLAN and then I'll turn it over to Mark for Asia.
In China Jim we're pleased with our performance to date.
Our overall revenue is up.
Government is up as well as Enterprise is up.
And I think the Enterprise business in particular has done a very good job growing strongly in the face of increased competition and yet we're holding our margins.
And I think it's a testimonial to the quality of the product portfolio.
TETRA in particular has done very well in particular on rail applications given the best-in-class mission-critical characteristics of TETRA.
So China has actually been a bright spot.
Now obviously it will get more competitive going forward.
There's efforts to localize certain standards by which we would expect to work very closely with the Chinese government and participate in the rollout and deployment of those standards.
So I think China has been overall a bright spot for us so far this year.
On WLAN you're right there's been speculation and rhetoric I'm not going to get into that.
You know that we -- it's been an area of focus for us for some time.
By the way I think -- I still think in a stare-and-compare we have one of the best product portfolios in the industry supplemented by very good intellectual property.
And the WLAN business as I mentioned is really strong in retail and transportation logistics and priority verticals that we're pretty strong in.
In terms of Asia I'll turn it over to Mark.
So Jim as you mentioned we've been talking about our performance in Asia all year.
We talked about we were disappointed coming into the year.
We made a number of structural changes.
We came in with very low backlog particularly on the Government side and we talked about a decline in Q1 of 20% Q2 of 10%.
Actually we had hoped to get back roughly flat in this quarter.
We did not accomplish that.
We still declined single digits.
So improvement over the previous 2 quarters but still some decline.
The point that's important for me I also talked about though while we were improving this business that we would continue to show signs of increased backlog.
And in fact in this quarter our backlog position in Asia has improved over $200 million.
Driven of course by Queensland but also growth beyond the Queensland Australia award which I think is very positive.
I do think in Q4 we will get back to growth.
And certainly Asia Pacific and the Middle East is a growth region for us.
So we're putting all the things in place to continue to grow backlog to continue to get the right coverage and the right places for the growth areas and we're expecting good solid growth as we go into next year.
Again as Greg mentioned China has been a bright spot across the board.
Enterprise throughout Asia has been bright all the way through continues to show good strong growth.
And so we do see momentum building.
And in fact as Greg mentioned pleased with China because to date we've got very good double-digit growth in Enterprise single-digit growth in Government and really we'll be high-single-digits to low-double-digit growth for the full year in China.
We'll go next to Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A question for Greg just one on basically visibility and growth.
It looks like this year you're not going to grow both your core businesses organically.
I know there's lots of reasons there difficult comps in Government you've had some issues in Enterprise up until now it looks like.
But could you just speak about the visibility into next year that you have? Is this a business that can go back to its long-term growth rate in 2014? What are the puts and takes around it? Especially considering it looks like the public safety LTE revenue opportunity if anything is probably a 2015 issue completely now or would you agree with that or disagree? Anything you're thinking about visibility and the business being able to go to even a mid-single-digit growth rate at some point? So Kulbinder kind of when you look at our business in composite obviously we're guiding to approximately flat for the full year.
If you look at the Enterprise business as I mentioned I'm pleased with the fact that it's grown for the first time in several quarters.
Psion has been a good acquisition that helps on that front and extend the product portfolio on the Enterprise mobile computing side.
Backlog is up.
And I'm not going to get into the composition of growth expectations for 2014.
That's something that we'll dimensionalize in January.
But it is certainly fair to say that we expect the firm in total to grow in 2014.
I'm really pleased with where we are in Government coming off of a record level last year backlog position margin position product portfolio position.
We do expect the Government business to return to growth in Q4.
And to your point on LTE while it's been elongated in the U.S.
we're really well positioned given the infrastructure device and software that we expect to deploy for interoperable public safety broadband working very closely with FirstNet.
And also internationally we've mentioned the fact that LTE is not just a domestic opportunity.
I think the Middle East in particular will be the most likely countries that deploy or begin to deploy in '14.
We will have an expectation for some revenue contribution in LTE in 2014.
Too early to tell you what that will be.
We'll update that in January.
But I -- as rugged a year as it's been I think we're really well positioned in -- because we've made investments in the product portfolio.
The business in total will return to growth.
We've taken the tough decisions to size it appropriately and demonstrate that irrespective of top line growth we can perform on the operating margin and operating leverage lever.
And I think it -- I'm looking forward to a better year in 2014.
And we'll go next to Andrew Spinola with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On that same topic for 2014 when I think about your 19% operating margin guidance for the year how do you think about the opportunity on cost cuts still in front of you given that you've -- the actions that you've already taken? Well I think that we've done a lot of cost reductions to date and activities have been launched throughout the year to reflect the more muted demand environment.
I always believe that we should always look to size the organization appropriately.
So I don't think of cost cutting as an event I think it's in the ongoing DNA to operate more effectively and efficiently and drive increased productivity in the firm and I think we've demonstrated that.
That said I believe that the easiest path forward and the most likely path to the approximately 19% will be in the top line growth since a lot of the chopping of wood on the expense side is more in the rearview mirror.
That's my view.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one follow-up.
I think Greg in your prepared remarks you made the comment that the Enterprise business was down 4% including iDEN and Psion.
And in the press release it said that Enterprise was down 5% excluding Psion.
So I guess that implies that the iDEN business was actually up year-over-year in Q3.
And I was just wondering were there any sort of maybe onetime payments related to the shutoff of the Sprint network.
And then I think you've made comments recently that it will be $75 million next year.
So wondering when we should see that step down.
So just a couple of things and you mentioned it.
iDEN will be about $185 million this year.
We do expect it to be approximately $75 million in 2014.
Enterprise grew 2% all-in for Q3.
But without-without without iDEN and without Psion it's down 4% negative 4%.
That's still on an apples-to-apples basis without-without an improved trajectory over the previous several quarters on the Enterprise side.
And we'll go next to Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So can we talk a little about -- a couple of things.
FirstNet we were at the FirstNet event in Washington a couple of weeks ago.
And it was certainly notable Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens in terms of their vocalness in wanting to participate in that effort.
Can you talk a little bit about your view on FirstNet in terms of timing? How do you see the competitive environment? Do you see it more nationally awarded versus local which is I think your preference? So first of all we continue to work really closely with FirstNet.
In particular in the last several months I think we've had very good traction and engagement.
Mark Hacker who runs our global government affairs organization who happens also to be the General Counsel has been the lead executive over the last several months as the point of contact with FirstNet and I think he's done a hell of a good job.
I've stayed very closely in touch with Sam Ginn as well.
And more tactically in the short term we're working closely with FirstNet to see if there's a path forward on BayRICS which was an early BTOP award winner and where some of the network has been built out as well as Mississippi which is also an early BTOP recipient and where over 2/3 of the network has been complete.
So we're looking for ways -- Motorola Solutions and FirstNet working very closely together to see if we can complete and get positioned terms and conditions and a set of -- basically conditions that complete BayRICS and the State of Mississippi.
We remain engaged outside the U.S.
particularly in the Middle East on a couple of fronts.
I think from a competitive standpoint Brian we're as good as positioned as we've ever been.
I think it's actually stronger than it was a year ago given the investments we've made in infrastructure software and in my prepared remarks examples of refreshing the LEX 700 and the VML vehicular modem on Verizon.
Ericsson has been a fantastic partner where we have about 7 or 8 years left in that agreement.
We're taking their base station so not investing in it in the wireless RAN component.
We're hardening it and integrating it interoperably in an end-to-end solution for a private-public partnership around LTE.
And Verizon has been a very good partner on the commercial side from a carrier standpoint in the U.S.
So I think NSN and Alcatel-Lucent will do their thing and I respect both firms but I feel very good about where we are.
Research Division</strong> And then briefly if you look into Q4 on the Enterprise side how do you see the business x Psion and x iDEN in terms of sequential growth? I think we see it slightly down in Q4 where commensurately we see Government returning to growth in about the mid-single-digit range for Q4.
And we'll go next to Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
A question for you on the Enterprise segment.
I noticed as I looked at the press release that there was no significant wins in the U.S.
Do I attribute that to the overall market conditions in the U.S.? Or is there still a hesitancy with some of your large customers waiting on the operating system issue from Windows? And will the U.S.
see more of a headwind with that than perhaps other geographies? Yes.
I think the Enterprise results reflect what we've talked about with a combination of customers deferring large purchases or chunking up bigger orders into smaller orders.
So I think the results are consistent with the environment that we described.
And I don't know if you want to add anything Mark.
Yes.
I think Keith we've been talking about the delayed large projects.
Run rate has been fairly consistent and that's still proving to be the case.
I would also say we talked about some notable wins even in the WLAN business and some of the major retailers in the U.S.
also did not like to be mentioned in releases as well.
So there's good activity good pilot activity that's going on but no doubt particularly in the U.S.
more than any other region large deployments are continuing to be pushed later into this year and on into next year.
Okay great.
Appreciate it.
And changing gears I think slightly over to the federal side.
You guys noted weakness in the federal side in the quarter.
Would you think it was related in part to the upcoming budget issues that happened in October? Or was there something else weighing there and perhaps some of that potential revenue pushed off the RFPs and such? I think -- and Mark can jump in as well.
I think it was related to the budget standoff and the 16-day government shutdown.
There was definitely a change in the month of September.
We didn't -- we saw significantly lower normal orders and RFP activity in September and we did not see the typical ramp that corresponds with the federal fiscal year-end close which was basically the end of Q3.
So we saw basically $100 million reduction in our second half of the year forecast that's reflected in our approximately flat full year guidance definitely a change.
And the federal business is down pretty sharply from this year compared to last year.
So did that businesses just not materialize? I mean or is it deferred you think? My view is it largely will not materialize so we'll adjust accordingly.
I don't think it's deferred and something that we can close in Q4 Q1.
I basically think it's largely gone.
And we'll go next to Peter Misek with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification question firstly on working capital.
Obviously on your slide you gave a range.
But if we look at the amount that AP increased and the amount that inventory and AR increased can you help us understand how we should think of working capital management sort of on a longer-term basis? If I look at your intensity on a bunch of metrics basis it seems elevated so I'd love a clarification there.
And then can you give us an update on your net cash position as it relates to guidance you gave us that you wanted to go to a net debt position in terms of capital redeployment? All right.
Thanks Peter.
Thanks for the question.
This is Gino.
With respect to working capital as I mentioned we've been digging into all the components of working capital.
Have instituted many actions many of which have not borne fruit yet in Q3.
But if I were to break them up individually inventory remains on track.
We're pleased with our performance around inventory at around 9 turns.
DPO we clearly saw degradation in Q2.
We have implemented several action plans around DPO based on timing of payments and terms for customers that have -- or I'm sorry vendors that have multiple terms and we believe that by the end of Q4 inventory and DPO will be similar to year ending 2012.
AR there are a couple of things that are happening in AR.
The Q3 AR has been impacted -- it kind of gets back to the discussion we had on POC.
There are several billings that occurred in Q3 for payment in Q4 on some large milestone projects in POC that drove a couple of days in the DSO calculation for Q3.
But we expect -- in our $800 million we expect DSO -- and have action plans in place to get the DSO to be approximately flat year-over-year.
So working capital -- from a CCC perspective working capital approximately flat to last year.
With respect to net debt position we continue to be on track to get to a net debt position in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Any change in terms of the absolute level of net debt that you guys are forecasting or targeting? No.
And our last question comes from Tim Long with BMO Capital Markets.
Two of them here.
Just to follow that up on the net cash.
Could you talk a little bit about the capital return? Any change or slowdown required in that -- in the buyback heading into next year as you get into the net debt position? And then secondly Greg back to the Government.
You did I think highlight that Europe was pretty strong in the quarter.
Maybe give us a little sense as to why you think that was and how sustainable you think that could be as we look into next year.
Tim thanks.
On capital allocation no change of strategy or view.
I think that we clearly believe it's front and center and critical as a key component to drive shareholder return.
You've seen the levels of buyback for Q1 Q2 Q3.
So far I think at this point they are reasonable reference points for how we think about share repurchase.
In terms of Europe Mark I don't know your view.
Yes.
Europe and actually Europe and Africa which is the region but -- has been very strong for us all year.
In fact year-to-date we're actually double-digit growth in Government and we're expecting double-digit growth in Q4 in Government as well.
So the Government business continues to remain very very strong.
And as the Enterprise business as we talked about has returned as well so we're not seeing the dips like we saw in North America.
I think it would be probably unrealistic to think that that double-digit Government growth would continue on but with that -- into next year but we'll give you that further guidance.
The important thing to note is that large projects are happening even in Europe itself Norway German MOI big countries were getting very good growth.
And in northern Africa we've made really really good traction with a couple of large projects and we're continuing to invest throughout Africa for future growth.
So the European team I'm very pleased with how they performed where we're positioned our backlog position.
Even as you talk about strong growth for Q4 we actually have secured the 4 or 5 big projects.
They're in backlog to achieve that growth.
So making really good headway not only on recognizing revenue but continuing to hold backlog relatively stable as we're going through this strong growth period.
So I think we continue to see good signs for Europe.
Thanks Tim.
So I would just say -- in closing I want to thank in particular all of the associates worldwide of Motorola Solutions.
It's been a challenging year in a tough environment but I think the team has worked closely together and people around the globe have performed well.
I think that moving forward we are very clear and committed to returning the firm to growth.
We're committed to improving operating leverage going forward and we will continue to take steps to drive superior shareholder return.
So decent Q3 we're looking for a better 2014.
I appreciate everybody dialing in and we'll talk soon.
Thanks Greg.
I want to remind everyone the details outlining highlighted items.
Our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our motorolasolutions.com Investor Relations site.
Audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on the site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
As mentioned at the outset during this call we made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to comments and answers related to the following: future sales growth including by business region and product; operating expense and operating margins; EPS outlook; the amount of other income expense; future tax rates and tax benefits as a result of our new holding company structure; operating cash flow; share repurchases and dividends; the impacts of migration of customers from analog to digital; timing impact of new products and solution introductions including OS transitions; recovery of our Enterprise business; management of our cost structure working capital and resulting savings; demand trends for our businesses and products; activity within FirstNet; and our net debt position.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on pages 8 through 12 and Item 1-A of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Motorola Solutions' other SEC filings.
Thanks and we look forward to speaking with all of you again soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss fourth quarter and full year results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark will join for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Earlier this morning we posted an earnings presentation and press release on our website.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
It is important to review these materials.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Greg.
Good morning.
And thanks Shep and thanks everybody for joining us today.
Q4 was a solid quarter for Motorola Solutions.
We finished 2013 on a positive note.
We had growth in both businesses improved operating margin delivered double-digit EPS growth built backlog and generated strong operating cash flow.
As I reflect on the year there are a few thoughts I'd like to note.
And first although revenue was flat for the year we still expanded operating margin delivered solid EPS growth and cash flow and returned $2 billion of capital to our shareholders.
Second the Government business turned in a very solid year demonstrating resiliency especially off of a record year in 2012.
This comes despite a challenging second half in our federal business related to the U.S.
government shutdown and declines in APME.
Europe and Africa and North America state and local were growth drivers for us.
We closed 2013 with a record backlog position in our Government segment up $450 million and have signed some significant multiyear deals that will build the base of recurring revenue streams for future years.
Third we continued to see encouraging trends in our Enterprise business.
The business grew slightly in Q4 the second quarter of growth in a row driven by stronger-than-expected performance in North America continued strength in Asia and solid performance in Europe.
New products are gaining traction and our backlog in Enterprise is also up.
And finally we sharpened our focus proactively taking steps to improve our cost structure and improve our competitive position overall.
This positions the business well for sustained operating leverage and cash generation going forward.
Now to our results.
This morning we reported fourth quarter sales of $2.5 billion an increase of 3% from Q4 of last year.
On a GAAP basis net earnings from continuing operations were $1.31 per share compared to $1.18 in the year-ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $1.67 per share compared to $1.10 per share in Q4 of last year.
For the full year revenues were flat at $8.7 billion while we increased non-GAAP operating margins by 30 basis points.
For the remainder of this call we'll reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Our Government business revenues increased 4% for the quarter.
We saw solid double-digit growth in infrastructure and deployment services for both ASTRO and TETRA.
Government sales increased 1% for the full year coming off of a record 12% revenue growth in 2012.
Our strong product portfolio and expanded solutions capabilities have positioned us well to take advantage of the demand drivers of the analog-to-digital transition aging public safety infrastructure and expansion opportunities in the verticals beyond public safety demand drivers which continue as catalysts for future growth.
In the Enterprise business sales were up slightly compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 1% when excluding the decline of iDEN.
On a full year basis Enterprise revenue declined 2% as we experienced cyclical weakness in the first half of the year although we believe the trends in our core Enterprise business are demonstrating a return to growth.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gino to discuss our results in more detail and then I'll return to get into more operational highlights and provide additional color on our business performance.
Thanks Greg.
On our last call I talked about managing costs and improving cash flow as 2 of our top priorities.
In Q4 we saw encouraging results in both areas.
We continue to make good progress on the cost front and our intense focus on cash flow produced strong results for Q4.
We will continue to remain focused on cash and operating leverage.
Now moving to the results.
Q4 sales grew 3% in line with our expectations.
On a full year basis revenue was flat at $8.7 billion.
Government posted strong growth of 4% fueled by 25% growth in Europe and Africa and continued strength in North America state and local government sales.
Strong results in infrastructure and deployment services were the drivers.
2013 full year Government sales grew 1% to $6 billion while delivering solid operating margin expansion.
Q4 sales for the Enterprise business were up slightly at $736 million.
Excluding iDEN revenues grew 1%.
Both Asia and Europe turned in solid growth for the quarter.
For the full year Enterprise posted revenues of $2.7 billion declining 2% year-over-year.
Although it was a challenging year we saw the trajectory of this business improve meaningfully in the second half and believe the segment can return to growth in 2014.
Turning to operating expenses.
In Q4 operating expenses were $710 million down $50 million from the year-ago quarter.
Full year OpEx was down approximately $120 million versus 2012.
This decrease was driven by a number of structural cost improvements we implemented during the year as well as reduced variable incentives.
Operating earnings in Q4 were a record at $519 million or 20.7% of sales compared to $476 million or 19.5% in Q4 of 2012.
Other income and expense was a net expense of $22 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $16 million in Q4 of 2012.
This expense was lower than we expected due to investment gains and several other items.
We continue to expect approximately $40 million in quarterly expenses for this line item.
Our effective tax rate was 12.5% for the quarter in line with our expectations.
For 2014 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33 and 40 -- 33% and 34%.
EPS in the fourth quarter was $1.67 which represents a 52% increase year-over-year.
For the full year EPS increased 48% to $4.73.
This EPS increase included a onetime tax benefit of $1.25 per share associated with the implementation of our foreign holding company structure.
Excluding the benefit of implementing the new structure EPS growth was up double digits in Q4 and 9% for the year.
We provided a schedule in our website of the quarterly EPS tax benefit in 2013 for the purposes of comparing core EPS growth in 2014.
Turning to our regional view of results.
North America declined 1% driven by a mid single-digit decline in Enterprise offset by 1% growth in Government.
For the full year North America declined 2% as a result of mid single-digit declines in Enterprise and flat Government sales.
State and local was a strong performer for the region while the federal business declined approximately $150 million.
In Europe and Africa revenue was up 16% driven by strong double-digit growth in Government along with solid results in Enterprise.
Full year EA results were strong as well with 12% growth.
Significant project rollouts and continued momentum in TETRA helped drive this strength while Enterprise also provided growth with some notable pilot projects for our new Android devices.
Asia Pacific and Middle East sales declined 1% in Q4.
The region saw a continued momentum in Enterprise with double-digit growth while Government turned in single-digit declines.
APME declined 4% for the full year with double-digit decline in Government.
Enterprise grew double digits for the year with good results through the entire year.
This region is showing good momentum including a substantial increase in backlog which will help it return to growth in 2014.
Latin America declined 2% for the quarter with a decline in Enterprise and growth in Government.
Latin America full year revenues declined 8% driven by iDEN declines in Enterprise while Government posted a slight increase.
Our services business finished with a strong quarter and a terrific year.
Total services grew 12% over Q4 of 2012 with double-digit growth in Enterprise and Government.
On a full year basis our services business grew 10% over last year with mid single-digit growth in Government and double-digit growth in Enterprise.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash generated from operating activities in the quarter was outstanding at $741 million a quarterly record.
The improvement was a result of actions we implemented to improve payables accounts receivable and collections related to long-term contracts.
For the full year cash flow was $944 million.
For 2014 we expect operating cash flow to be approximately $1.1 billion.
We ended the year with $3.2 billion in total cash and $2.5 billion in debt.
During Q4 we repurchased $362 million of stock.
For the year we repurchased 29 million shares for a total of $1.7 billion.
In the 2.5 years since we initiated this plan we have repurchased 105 million shares or $5.2 billion at an average price of approximately $50 a share.
As a result we have reduced our net share count by 26%.
In addition we paid $80 million in dividends during the quarter and $292 million for the full year.
Through Q4 we have paid $634 million in dividends since reinstating our dividend in late 2011.
Before turning to outlook I want to mention a few items related to pension.
Our total underfunded U.S.
pension balance decreased from $2.8 billion at the end of 2012 to $1.2 billion ending 2013.
U.S.
pension expense will decline from $110 million to approximately $80 million in 2014.
The minimum cash contribution to our U.S.
pension will increase by $150 million to approximately $300 million.
The funding increase is a result of the MAP-21 exclusion in 2013 allowing a lower minimum contribution last year.
Now turning to our outlook.
We expect 2014 sales to be flat to up 2%.
This outlook is predicated on low single-digit growth in Government and mid single-digit growth in Enterprise excluding iDEN or flat to low single-digit inclusive of a $100 million iDEN decline.
We expect non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 18.5%.
This margin outlook incorporates slightly lower year-over-year operating expenses and gross margins comparable to 2013.
In Q1 we expect sales to decline 4% to 6% year-over-year.
Our outlook for non-GAAP earnings per share is $0.46 to $0.52 from continuing operations based on Q4 ending share count.
This compares to non-GAAP EPS of $0.66 per share in Q1 of 2013.
This outlook excludes items historically highlighted in our quarterly earnings release.
Let me provide some insight into our full year and Q1 sales expectations.
Our year-over-year backlog is up approximately $500 million.
This increase is driven by multiyear projects which begin to generate revenue in mid-2014 and beyond and provide long-term revenue streams.
However the Government backlog scheduled to ship in Q1 is down approximately $125 million from last year.
As a result we expect Q1 to be lower as a percentage of full year revenue compared to the past several years.
To sum up we are pleased with the overall backlog position and remain confident in our position in both segments.
I'll now turn it over to Greg for business highlights from the quarter.
Gino thanks.
In Government our sales for the quarter were $1.8 billion up 4% over Q4 2012.
Operating earnings were a record 22.5% of sales compared to 21.8% in Q4 of last year.
Growth in the quarter in our Government business was driven by higher ASTRO and TETRA infrastructure and deployment services sales.
Growth for the full year was driven by Europe and Africa and strength in our state and local business despite as Gino mentioned approximately $150 million in federal sales declines that came largely in the second half of this past year.
Profitability also increased based on lower operating expenses and solid gross margins.
Across the portfolio full year ASTRO sales were up single digits and TETRA grew solid double digits.
Growth in these businesses was driven this year by a double-digit increase in the sales of new system infrastructure which is typically a leading indicator for future subscriber revenues.
Our PCR sales declined single digits following record double-digit growth in 2012 although our results were consistent with the overall market performance.
In ASTRO this quarter marked a new release of our market-leading and standards-compliant P25 technology.
We already have over 35 customers upgraded to this latest release with 49 more in backlog scheduled for 2014 upgrades.
This latest version of ASTRO features a seamless migration path with improved serviceability and scalability.
Customers investing in these next-generation systems have the assurance that new radios with enhanced features remain interoperable and backward compatible with the existing equipment while preparing for future technology migrations.
During the quarter we signed several large deals including a number of wins at the county level with the counties of Cobb Georgia for $27 million; Albany in New York for $25 million; Waukesha and Milwaukee Wisconsin for $23 million; Hamilton Indiana for $21 million; San Bernardino California for $18 million; Florence in South Carolina for $12 million; Grand Prairie Texas for $12 million; and Harford Maryland for $11 million.
We also were awarded a $17 million contract from the Navy to service and maintain radio systems at over 50 military installations.
And the Tennessee department of safety which had previously self-maintained their ASTRO system recently contracted with us to maintain monitor and support their network for 10 years in conjunction with their new ASTRO P25 system for a total contract of $52 million.
And the recent $24 million contract with the City of Charlotte includes upgrades of their ASTRO network with our assurance program to keep their software and hardware refreshed with the latest technology enhancements.
P25 is truly a global standard for mission-critical communications and our ASTRO systems are now deployed in over 60 countries.
We won several international deals this quarter including the country of Latvia for $18 million to deploy a nationwide system that replaces 2 legacy systems that were 15 years old.
And Royal Malaysia Police operating one of the largest ASTRO deployments outside of the U.S.
added several million dollars of new services and signed a $25 million contract that transitions management of their network to us from a formally self-maintained model.
We also signed awards with the Israel fire brigade for $20 million and the São Paulo military police for several million dollars.
We're driving growth in verticals beyond public safety as well.
This quarter we secured contracts with Xcel Energy for $26 million; Nassau County New York public works for $11 million; and the L.A.
Department of Power and Water for several million dollars.
We continue to make tailored investments for expanded verticals.
As an example new features now available in 7.14 ASTRO system release include special alerts for the mining market and enhanced data for meter-reading capabilities to serve the utilities market.
Our expanded PCR portfolio now includes several digital radio platforms complete with multisite coverage which is being adopted by customers in energy utilities as well as manufacturing.
For example this quarter customers like Cenovus Energy in Canada and Sam Houston Electric in Texas recently chose MOTOTRBO to serve multiple sites; while Agrium a large fertilizer company in Canada is deploying MOTOTRBO as well.
Looking back on the year.
We secured large contracts in actually what was one of our best large-deal years in our history: Los Angeles; Queensland Australia; Libya; Tennessee; and our first international public safety LTE deal.
Deployments of this size and complexity lead to long-term revenue streams over multiple-year rollouts.
We've also made progress expanding our services business and in particular lifecycle management contracts.
These agreements provide customers with the ability to stay current on the latest software versions with routine upgrades.
In the past 3 years we've gone from only a handful of these contracts to now almost 200.
In this year in ASTRO alone we signed 39 new lifecycle management agreements with over 50 million in backlog growth.
These contracts also tend to be long in duration.
For example 40% of the new agreements we signed this year were for 10 years.
We had one of our best years in TETRA with strong double-digit growth driven by the continued expansion of our infrastructure footprint with this mission-critical standard.
Our expanded device portfolio is also being well received.
As an example our new TETRA 6750 model the first-ever camera-equipped TETRA public safety radio is now shipping and receiving great customer feedback including a readers' choice award from a leading German professional telecommunications magazine.
This quarter we renewed a multiyear support contract for Airwave's critical communications network one of the largest TETRA networks in the world delivering voice and data services to the U.K.'s emergency services.
And we signed a large multiyear public safety contract with Libya for $187 million to provide countrywide coverage.
The Royal Brunei Police Force also selected our TETRA technology for a $6 million system in Q4.
TETRA also continues to be the technology of choice for rail transport communication systems across the globe as demonstrated by contracts this quarter from Chongqing Metro in China and an award with St.
Petersburg Metro in Russia.
The decline this year in PCR was primarily driven by lower sales in North America a market that grew almost 20% in 2012 because of U.S.
narrowbanding.
We're making investments in this business to extend our leadership in the market with continued growth potential.
For example we acquired Twisted Pair Solutions which further extends our MOTOTRBO radio push-to-talk communication to commercial smartphone device users as well.
One of the key long-term growth drivers for the PCR market is the overwhelming majority of the 40 million radios deployed in the global market that is still largely analog technology and we are leading that transition to digital with the most comprehensive digital portfolio in the professional and commercial market.
And finally we signed our first public safety LTE contract with a country outside the U.S.
for a multiyear deployment that includes our infrastructure and devices valued at nearly $100 million.
We're very pleased with securing our first international LTE contract and anticipate this revenue will begin in 2015.
We have a great product portfolio that positions us well on the continued migration to digital the continuing need for interoperability and the high-critical nature and prioritization of mission-critical public safety.
I should also mention that our backlog in Government is at a record level with much of the composition of this backlog being multiyear in nature as we execute on large contract deployments and incremental managed services opportunities.
Moving on to Enterprise.
In Enterprise our sales for the quarter were $736 million a slight increase.
Profitability for the segment increased driven by lower operating expenses.
Operating earnings were 16.5% of sales compared to 14% in Q4 of last year.
On a full year basis the iDEN segment -- excuse me the Enterprise segment declined 2%.
And excluding the decline in iDEN the Enterprise business grew 2% with an improved trajectory in the second half of the year.
We believe the trends in Enterprise are favorable.
Throughout this past year our focus has been on operationally and financially improving the business and the portfolio is getting stronger with investments in Android and new devices like the TC55.
We're moving from trial deployments for this device and other new products to customer adoption and we are pleased with the improved revenue traction.
On a full year basis mobile computing grew single digits and data capture and wireless LAN both declined single digits.
Now having said that data capture and wireless LAN grew double digits in Q4.
As Android has emerged we are well positioned with a truly enterprise-grade portfolio complete with our own Motorola Extensions to enhance integrate and secure the Android OS.
We have 4 new models running on the current version of Android and our workforce MC67 is available in both Windows and Android.
Additionally several strategic accounts have begun to deploy these devices such as Spanish Post ordering over 10 000 of our new Android-based TC55.
It's a pocket-sized touch computer which merges the features of our traditional enterprise-class mobile computer with the form factor and functionality of the smartphone.
In Q4 we won other large mobile computing deals within our transportation and logistics customer base including a multimillion dollar order from the Italian Pos.
APC Overnight the U.K.'s largest next-day delivery network purchased over 2 000 MC67s for their new proof-of-delivery system.
And TNT Express in Europe ordered 2 600 MC67s for their needs.
In advanced data capture Q4 growth was driven by strong sales through our distribution channels and several large direct deals.
For example Wal-Mart continues to invest with a recent order of 10 000 handheld scanners along with 4 000 of our first-ever bioptic scanner the MP6000 for use in their checkout counters displacing the longtime incumbent in this strategic account.
We recently announced the blade the DS4800 an innovatively designed scanner that complements the customer experience in high-end retail with stylish ergonomics and customized bezel together with best-in-class 2D scanning.
Wireless LAN was a bright spot in Q4 and grew double digits.
Bed Bath &amp; Beyond recently chose our WLAN solution in a managed services delivery model which will be deployed in all of their 1 275 locations in the United States and Canada.
We also recently won a large contract with Caesars Entertainment to deploy over 45 000 access points in over 35 of their properties to deliver guest access workforce solutions and location-based services on a secured network with the goal of providing an incredible guest experience.
I'm encouraged by our Q4 results in Enterprise.
And as we look forward to 2014 we're well positioned here competitively.
The National Retail Federation's annual showcase was just last week in New York.
I met with several large customers that are excited about investments that they're making in our Enterprise products to improve customer service and capture customer demand whether it's in the store or online.
In closing.
Q4 was a good finish to a challenging year.
In the quarter we grew in both segments; achieved record operating earnings of $519 million record operating margin of 20.7% and record quarterly operating cash flow of $741 million.
We also made numerous changes this year to become more efficient and our 21 000 people remain focused on execution and returning this firm to growth in 2014.
The fundamental demand drivers for our business remain solid and we continue to invest and innovate for profitable growth.
And we plan to build on the momentum that we demonstrated this past quarter as we ended the year and move into '14.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator could you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First a clarification.
You mentioned you expect iDEN to be down $100 million in 2014.
Do you have the basis of what that was in 2013? And then secondly on the gross margins it was down pretty meaningfully year-over-year in Q4 and I think you're calling for it flat next year.
Can you talk a little bit about what is driving kind of gross margin in any particular quarter and why this quarter was kind of weaker relative to Q3 or the year-ago quarter? So 2 things.
First on iDEN iDEN was about $185 million in 2013.
We expect it to be down approximately $100 million to $85 million.
We have very good visibility obviously with that business given its contracting and pretty located base that we have a very good understanding of.
Gross margins were compressed largely due to mix which we had higher infrastructure and deployment services in 2013.
And when we talk about deployment services we're talking really about installation and integration services.
So it compressed gross margin in Q4 and that mix carries over into Q1 although overall for the full year we're anticipating gross margins for full year 2014 to be comparable for full year 2013.
And we'll go next to Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A question for Greg just on revenue growth for the overall business.
I guess in '13 you didn't kind of hit your target range and there was a number of issues.
This year you are saying the same thing.
I understand the timing of some of these things but I guess what confidence do you have that MSI is above a mid single-digit grower let's say from '15 and beyond? What gives you that confidence in what you've previously discussed? Is that the target growth rate for the company? And then just a clarification on the nearer term: So just to be clear the Government business has a very good backlog but you just guys aren't going to be converting that in the first half and that creates kind of an air pocket hence the down revenues we're going to see there.
Is that the right way of thinking about that? Kulbinder 2 things.
I have much higher confidence in the business than I did several quarters ago about our ability to call it.
So if I take you back a couple of quarters -- and I understand when we were guiding to be approximately flat for the remainder of -- or for full '13 there were folks that didn't think we could get there given the kind of ramp in the second half that was required and we pointed people to what we called the aged backlog being up about 100 million in this past Q4 which ended up converting as expected and materializing in line with what we thought.
As we think about this year and you call it an air pocket for Q1 I'll come back to that we believe that the full year guidance comports well.
Even with Q1's compression the remaining 9 months is -- has the business growing at 2% to 4%.
That's off of a 9-month compare on the same period of '13 of being approximately flat.
For the full year we expect Government to grow low single digits and Enterprise mid single digits without iDEN.
I think we have pretty good visibility to that and I think that we have shored up a number of processes on our ability to guide and forecast the business.
In Q1 as you referenced Kulbinder it's really a timing issue.
And we don't manage the business of course by quarter we look at the full year.
I love the fact that the backlog is up in both businesses.
We have very good visibility into the aged backlog composition of that meaning the backlog to be delivered in Q1 and in fiscal 2014.
We see good trends on the Enterprise business that we referenced and we're expecting Enterprise to go -- grow in Q1.
So I feel good about where we are as a business the long-term contracts multiyear contracts that we've signed which over time will give us even greater predictability on annuity revenue streams.
So that's what gives me confidence as I look into '14.
And we'll go next to Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to that question.
How does the backlog coverage for this year compare to what you typically enter the year with? And then I just had a clarification: When you talked about the $150 million decline in federal in the second half was that a bit larger than you had expected? I think you had earlier indicated $100 million.
So you're right.
On the second part first Simona the $150 million turned out to be higher in the second half but we still met full year guidance.
And just to further extend your point in 2014 we're not building into our overall revenue guidance some kind of significant snapback to the federal business.
We're really projecting very modest increases in the U.S.
federal business.
On backlog as we referenced Q1 is just more of a timing issue.
The remaining aged backlog for the 9-month ensuing period is at comparable levels to 2013.
Research Division</strong> I see.
So despite the fact that backlog grew quite nicely that's really kind of layered out over a number of years.
It's not giving you any more visibility into this year than typical.
That's right.
That's correct.
And we'll go next to Ehud Gelblum with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
First of all have to dig a little bit more into this timing pushout in Q1 if we can get a little more detail on that.
With the $150 million falloff in fed in second half of the year does this Government downdraft in Q1 as air pocket as mentioned before a is that related to lower fed or is it related to LTE or anything that we can get our arms around? When did you get a sense that this was going to happen? Was this something that just happened around Christmas that you got a phone call that it wouldn't be recognized in Q1? And if we can get a sense as to what type of work that is what types of projects.
And then should we be assuming that whatever we -- you were going to get in Q1 are now pushed out to Q2 and whatever you get in Q2 are now pushed out to Q3? And just trying to get also a sense as to was this lost business or was this business that literally just got pushed out and then pushed everything out 1 quarter in advance in the future? And then I have a follow-up.
Ehud thank you for the question.
This is Gino.
A couple of items to note.
You mentioned federal and the $150 million decline last year was predominantly in the second half.
So Q1 does have an element of federal to it but it's generally across the Government segment.
It's in state and local federal and to some extent in other regions.
The question on visibility and when did we begin to realize that Q1 may have an air pocket in it is it was really as you say.
As we were closing the quarter Q4 is our largest-order quarter approximately $3 billion in orders in Q4.
And as we closed the quarter we aged those projects and those orders over the course of the project life and that's when the Q1 issue became pronounced that we had a scheduled delivery issue.
Aged backlog as we call it internally became an issue.
And just to add.
It's -- we don't characterize it as business that's lost and it's not LTE either.
Research Division</strong> But this was -- to follow up.
This was I'm assuming -- it doesn't sound as though it was one project or one group of projects that was pushed out from the same customer.
It sounds as though it was spread up.
It sounds like part of it was a continuation of fed so you may had a little bit of insight ahead of time but it sounds like just a coincidence that a large chunk of multiple projects from a lot of different places are being pushed out.
Or is there some structural third reason fear of government shutdown and obviously I don't know state and local something that is making a bunch of different customers push out? I'm just trying to get a little bit of visibility into why all of a sudden.
I mean we haven't seen that before.
My other question had to do with pension.
Now that your pension liability is down $1.6 billion what does that -- what kind of dry powder does that give you for additional buybacks? Ehud this is Mark let me jump on the first piece then I'll hand back to Gino for the pension liability.
When we think about federal as we talked about -- when we talked about the down in the last second half of $150 million we're also coming against a very large order in federal in Q1 of last year so the comparable was also tough in that particular piece.
Gino spoke about the $3 billion of orders and how we aged the scheduled delivery of backlog here in the last couple of weeks.
It was a nominal across the portfolio different than just one customer pushing out.
The mix was definitely tilted towards infrastructure and deployment services which is longer range and just the necessity of how it -- how the project will be deployed versus larger subscriber orders.
The order flow in the last 2 weeks also probably because of the holiday following -- falling in the middle of the last 2 weeks was a little less than normal.
Now overall trends are very good so it's just those last 2 weeks which also may have impacted some of the Q1 volume but again it really is a Q1 anomaly.
We look very strong.
The demand is strong.
And actually in Government both in North America and around the world we increased share in the year.
So order demand is good it happens just to be a Q1 timing issue.
And then Ehud on the pension liability decreased we've stated in the past and we continue to adhere to a net debt position by 2014.
We've also talked about that we're comfortable based on our ability to generate cash comfortable running a levered model.
Certainly that reduction gives us greater flexibility but we think the adjusted leverage is still appropriate in the mid-2x range.
And as we've discussed in the past we expect to intend to hold onto our solid investment grade rating.
And we'll go next to Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I know you made some comments on this Greg at one of the recent tech conferences.
Could you give us an update on your views on timing of LTE rollouts this year in the U.S.? Or really that's like more next year but I want your view on that in terms of how you're planning.
And then back to an earlier question around the guidance for the year.
If things go good in the back-end and the following 9 months after Q1 why are better than planned I should say should say worse than planned also.
What would have caused that relative to your plan for the year? On LTE -- first Brian thanks for the 2 questions.
I'll start by we're thrilled with the fact that we secured an approximately $100 million multiyear deal our first internationally outside the U.S.
As we think about LTE revenue contribution overall for '14 we are not planning no more than $50 million in 2014 total revenues.
I still -- we continue to work closely with FirstNet well here in the U.S.
We are working on a couple of projects and we'll see if they are successful coming to conclusion one in particular comes to mind that we're working on that could make a decision over the next few months.
We'll see.
In terms of the remainder of the year I think we have been pretty disciplined in the guidance that we're giving in a variety of different contingency scenarios as Gino and I work pretty closely together.
For the full year factored into the full year revenue guidance again we think about Government being up low single digits Enterprise being up single -- excuse me mid single digits without iDEN.
And that's really kind of the way we think about the balance of the year.
It contemplates about 2% to 4% growth over the remaining 9 months against a flat period of compare.
We've detailed we've taken a detailed look at backlog so we feel pretty good about the way we're calling the year.
And we'll go next to Andrew Spinola with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question about your operating expenses.
If I take the guidance that you've given say the midpoint of your revenue the assumption that gross margin is unchanged next year.
Is your -- and then all the put and takes around pension and bonus and other pay increases things like that.
Is your operating expense base where it is now going to get you to the 18.5% operating margin? Or do you need to look to make additional cuts to get there? I think -- high level I think that between the actions that we've taken in '13 that resulted in significant annualized savings which is a tailwind as well as pension savings with a tailwind and then net it against the headwind of accruing back to 100% of variable compensation we think those actions when netted together largely get us there to approximately 18.5% against the backdrop of the revenue guidance that we've given.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Greg on the LTE win and the other possible awards that you might win this year are any of the customers new customers to you? So is LTE expanding your addressable market in any ways that maybe you could discuss so that we can think about your business going forward? Well I think it expands the addressable market because it's a separate new network that's incremental to the narrowband LMR that's been deployed.
In the win internationally it's an existing customer one that we've enjoyed a relationship with for decades.
But having the fact that we have a public safety solution infrastructure software and integrated devices does expand the addressable market.
And in the one that I'm thinking about here domestically it -- that too is also an existing Motorola Solutions customer but if we were to succeed in closing that business that too would be an expansion of the addressable market opportunity because Public Safety LTE and the addressable market is incremental to the public safety mission-critical land-mobile radio business.
Andrew just to further kind of clarify and amplify really what Greg said: The existing -- one of the large contracts that he highlighted that we received this year was from L.A.
Regional Interoperable Communications for a land-mobile 2-way radio mission-critical network.
LA-RICS is also a customer currently pursuing an LTE opportunity.
So that is the reference that Greg just made.
So really this new LTE opportunity is indeed incremental because it's an addition to the multiyear mission-critical network they just bought.
And again we're in negotiations with that customer and optimistic about what will come in the near future.
And we'll go next to Peter Misek with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm struggling a little bit as well with the margins and I guess I have 2 questions.
Firstly as we look at the Enterprise performance 2 quarters effectively of growth here on an adjusted basis.
The business seems to have less and less to do with the Government side.
The overlap based on the work we've done seems to be diminishing over time not increasing.
Does the thought process around maintaining ownership for that business continue? Or does it make sense now that we're starting to see a stabilization to actually explore a sale? And then on the margin side still struggling on the operating margin guidance on how you get there when you look at the math of ramp mathematically the ramp throughout the year.
Maybe we can dive into the bridge from gross margin to operating margin just on the Government side as that Government operating margin looks again mathematically to be a bar that's set far lower than we would have expected.
Peter so on the Enterprise business I mean that we have 2 core businesses here in the firm.
They're different you're right but they're also both very good businesses.
Our focus has been and remains on improving the Enterprise business given some of the difficulties and challenging periods we had over the last few quarters.
And we feel pretty good about where we are with this business.
It's improving operationally.
It's improving on backlog up $50 million year-over-year.
It's improving on new products with 4 recently introduced Android products.
The engagement as I mentioned with large customers at NRF was significantly in tone better than the last year or 2.
We've extended the Motorola Extensions vis-à-vis security device management integration on our own software that we layer on top of Android.
So I guess it's a long-winded way of saying look the Enterprise business is a good business.
It's improving its position that's been our focus.
And we have a number of customers that are counting on us to deliver in Q1 and Q2 and for the remainder of the year and that is our primary focus.
And we think there can be a lot of value created by continuing to drive the improvement of that business.
And on gross margins Peter the -- we've said gross -- we expect gross margins to be comparable to 2013.
And Greg talked about the tailwind in pension as well as reductions executed in 2013 that will realize -- will be realized in annual savings in 2014.
Research Division</strong> But the question I was specifically asking is on the bridge.
If we're comparable at roughly call it 50% gross margins given that revenues are expected to grow more than expenses and you've walked through that we would have expected more than an 80 basis point rise in operating margin based on your full year guidance.
And guess -- I guess the bridge I'm talking about if we assume flat to low single-digit revenue growth and if we assume low single-digit operating expense declines we're getting something that's closer to 19% operating margins.
And so I guess that math I'm just curious if you can give a little bit more color on the puts and takes on that math and whether we're thinking about this right or how should -- we should look at it in more detail.
So Peter what we've said margins comparable to 2013 we ended 2013 at 49.3%.
So margin's comparable and a reduction in OpEx gets us to the 18.5% from where we ended 2013.
Yes.
And the only thing I'd add is the guidance of approximately 18.5% and I've said this before in the past it's net -- not to imply necessarily a ceiling either.
So we're just trying to be prudent in our estimation given the 90 point -- 90 basis point improvement year-on-year.
Gross margins will be comparable '14 versus '13.
We do have lower iDEN revenues but we also look at ASPs pretty carefully and we're comfortable with where we are on ASPs in both segments.
So that's contemplated into the approximately 18.5%.
And we'll go next to Tim Long with BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to dig into the LTE business.
I know you talked about it not being a meaningful contributor this year but looking out a few years I just wanted to get a sense of a few things.
First could you talk a little bit about when we think about the revenue distribution of those contracts do you think it will be any different than ASTRO or TETRA when you look at the mix of infrastructure devices and software and services? That's number one.
And then number two similar question but on margin profile.
And with the margin profile I just want to understand given that there might be a little bit more standards-based air interfaces there does that mean a more -- a much more competitive dynamic on the device piece of the business? Well I'm going to turn it over to Mark to answer part of that.
But just on the last part Tim the -- one of the things I think that's been very important from a competitive advantage and the way we approach this business strategically is a solutions orientation so regardless P25 is an open interoperable standard as well with many competitors on the infrastructure and device side but given our expertise customization of software existing relationships we're able to drive a very successful franchise.
LTE is also an open air interface standard and our approach to that market is also through a solutions orientation infrastructure software devices and an end-to-end orientation that reflects the expertise and the decades of experience we have in provisioning mission-critical communications.
On the LMR side it's narrowband.
On the LTE side it's broadband.
But we've been very conscious of the R&amp;D investments we've made to try to have that systems end-to-end orientation to have that strong solution and business model that we think will be quite successful going forward.
Tim when we think about the revenue mix both kind of where it physically will happen we see it being fairly well balanced between international opportunities and U.S.
opportunities.
From the infrastructure subscriber question that you ask I think it would be similar when you think about our traditional business in the mix of percentage of equipment infrastructure equipment versus devices.
But what I do believe following up on what Greg just described as the way we see the business evolving you will see the services component.
Because this will be a solutions delivery and operating some of these networks at a higher level I think you'll see that services content continue to grow in this particular piece just like we're seeing it grow in our other businesses today in longer-term agreements.
So from a margin perspective both as you think about services infrastructure and what we see in the Public Safety LTE devices I think from a gross margin perspective it will be somewhat less than what we see in our traditional business but we do believe we can maintain the same level of operating margins within that business.
And we'll take our last question from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
I want to come back to the 1Q guidance if you guys don't mind.
I know this is going to be a topic of conversation amongst investors today.
I guess Greg you made the point before that you have higher confidence in your ability to schedule out going forward.
So the question is of course what gives you that higher confidence? And it certainly looks if we look at your historically numbers in the Government sector this is highly unusual that you're going to have such a decrease year-over-year in that segment.
I guess any other color that you can give to why that was perhaps? And I know you touched on this number to a call here but it still seems like something is missing here from the investor standpoint trying to understand the lower guidance.
Yes I would summarize it this way.
And I recognize that -- a number of questions around the topic.
It's really about timing.
And I don't mean to distract or take away from the realities of the Q1.
It's the mix of the mix to higher infrastructure and deployment services and the way the orders flow through.
We had a -- almost a $3 billion order quarter in Q4.
It's a huge volume that comes in.
A component of it is federal that we mentioned about it earlier but quite frankly I'm just not that concerned nor is Gino.
And I don't mean to blow by it that's not at all what I'm trying to do but we look at the business annually we look at the backlog that's aged we look at the engagements we're in.
We're not contemplating significant LTE.
And when I think about can this business grow 2% to 4% for the ensuing 9 months over a flat compare with the same period I think it's very reasonable.
And I think it's in that context that we have higher confidence.
When we come into a quarter I've referenced Mark and Gino have referenced that we have 80% -- approximately 80% visibility into a quarter.
That too was unchanged.
About 50% from backlog 30% of what we characterize in our own vernacular as run rate which is add-on and additional services and things with very little variability.
And then there's about 20% of the quarter that we need to go get which is anywhere from $350 million to $400 million and new orders to turn and book and ship.
I think in the last several months with Gino's arrival and I think some rigorous processes and stronger linkage between finance and Mark Moon's organization I feel more comfortable about some steps that have been taken.
I think a great example of that is the cash generation of $741 million in Q4 which we've never had.
And I will give a tip of the hat to Gino that dove into this.
From a working capital standpoint receivables payables it's the "mud under your fingernails" blocking and tackling that I'm very pleased with.
So I think we're operationally more crisp.
And the overall demand drivers of the business are strong multiyear backlog is up.
So those are the elements that underpin our guidance and my feeling of feeling more comfortable about this business.
Okay.
If I can ask a follow-up question to that.
So it sounds like from the final question here in your commentary the average age of your backlog is probably increasing substantially as the multiyear rollouts are it actually sounds like they're extending.
Is that correct? That is correct yes.
Okay.
Can you give us an idea of what the age of that backlog is or the average age? I don't know the answer to that.
I don't know.
Keith I would also say on Q1 the Q1 issue is really a North America issue.
And when you think about what we've talked about with the federal government in North America and the way we bragged over the last several number of quarters about the performance of state and local in North America 15% growth in '12 9% growth this past year it really is we're still very confident in that business.
But the timing of that backlog in that business is down.
The other thing for the full year of Government we do expect to return to growth in APME which has been slower than expected but built great backlog.
So that will be an upswing for this year.
As well as Latin America where we had a couple of projects slip from last year into this year we believe that will also be stronger growth.
So that will offset kind of the tough comparables that North America and EA will be fighting against this year.
Okay but for the first quarter it really sounds sort of -- or what I'm hearing is in the fourth quarter your group and Gino's group really tightened up your review of that 80% visibility.
And along with the combination of new orders that came in it really caused you to reevaluate I guess your first -- or you guys have given quarterly guidance before but that's just causing I guess the blip or the way the investors are seeing the first quarter I should say.
It is the late flow of the orders that we really didn't have visibility to till they came in but again the volume of that it happens in the fourth quarter our largest quarter ever almost $3 billion of orders.
And it is to -- speaking to Greg's comment on confidence we have definitely instituted much more rigor in process for the bottoms-up buildup that gives us higher confidence both in the current quarter and for the guidance that we're giving for the full year.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any closing or additional remarks.
Thanks.
I'd like to remind everyone that details outlining the highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our website.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available shortly after this call.
As mentioned at the outset during the call we made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to comments and answers relating to the following topics: outlook on operating cash flow; sales by business and region; op margin; op expense; gross margin; EPS; the amount of other income and expense; future tax rates pension expense and cash contributions; impact of trends in our Enterprise business; impact of the migration of customers from analog to digital; timing of impact of new products solutions and services introductions; impact of improvements to our cost structure on operating leverage and cash generation; impact of long-term contracts on future revenue.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 8 through 12; and item 1-A of our 2012 annual report on Form 10-K; and Motorola Solutions' other SEC filings.
Thanks and we look forward to speaking with you all again soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be made available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen only mode and the line will be open for your questions following the presentation.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thanks and good morning.
I'd like to welcome you to our conference call to discuss financial and operating results for the fiscal 2014 fourth quarter and full year.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President of Sales and Product Operations; and Bob Schassler Executive Vice President of Solutions and Services.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark and Bob will join for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
We have posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference which we encourage you to review.
I would also like to remind you that we'll be hosting our financial Analyst Day on February 17 at our headquarters in Schaumburg.
Please feel free to contact Investor Relations if you have questions regarding the event.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation and during Q&amp;A.
These statements are based on the current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements information about factors that could cause such differences can be found in this morning’s earnings press release.
And the comments made during this conference call and the risk factor section of our 2013 annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q ended March 29th 2014 as well as other MSR reports and filings with the SEC.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.
I'd like to now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Our Q4 was a solid quarter for Motorola Solutions and we continue to see signs of recovery in large parts of our business.
As I think about the quarter and beyond there are a few thoughts I'd like to share.
First we continue to see improvement in our North America business.
Q4 marked a return to growth and we're encouraged by indicators such as orders backlog and device sales as we move into 2015.
Second just last week we secured a contract valued at over $200 million with a country in the Middle East for a nationwide smart communications network utilizing our public safety LTE solution.
This now gives us the three largest public safety LTE awards to date with the LA-RICS contract implementation underway and $100 million deal in another Middle East country that begins deployment this year.
It’s encouraging to see investments made over the past several years starting to drive associated revenue.
And third our efforts around simplification and rationalizing our cost structure remain on course.
We closed the year with more than $200 million in OpEx savings versus full year of 2013 and ended the year with a run rate that should position us well to achieve approximately $150 million of further reductions this year.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on Q4 results and our outlook.
Thank you Greg.
And good morning everyone.
Q4 2014 revenue was $1.8 billion a slight increase over Q4 2013 and a reflection of robust order activity and faster than expected conversion of certain orders.
These results come despite $27 million of currency headwinds in the quarter.
GAAP operating earnings were a loss $1 billion which included a one time charge of $1.9 billion due to our pension de-risking transaction.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $483 million or 26.5% of sales up from the year ago quarter of 21.8%.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations was a loss of $4.02 compared to a gain of $1.12 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Non-GAAP EPS was $1.25 compared to a $1.37 in the year ago quarter which included a $0.42 benefit from the formation of our international holding company in 2013.
For the remainder of this call we will reference non-GAAP financial results including those in our outlook unless otherwise noted.
Turning to segment results.
In products Q4 sales were a record $1.25 billion up 3% versus the prior year’s quarter.
Growth was driven by strong demand in North America for a P25 and PCR device product lines while TETRA devices grew robustly on a global basis.
Q4 product segment operating income was $394 million or 32% of sales up from $283 million or 23% of sales in Q4 of 2013.
Significant operating leverage provided by our cost reduction actions drove higher operating income.
Moving to product backlog.
Product segment backlog is $1.2 billion which has increased for three consecutive quarters.
Product backlog is up $53 million versus last year and up $16 million sequentially despite strong revenues in Q4.
The year-over-year increase in backlog is driven by North America and APME.
For the full year operating income was $754 million or 19.8% of sales which is up from last year due to cost reductions realized in 2014.
Turning to services.
Q4 services revenue was $577 million excluding iDEN services revenue declined 2% while declining 5% overall.
Q4 integration services – revenue was down as expected versus Q4 2013s record quarter which accompanied strong systems revenue in 2013.
Q4 Lifecycle support services grew modestly overall and strong demand for our software maintenance contracts and steady demand for our hardware upgrades.
Managed services grew across all regions as increasing complexity and the need for enhanced capabilities to support software-centric IT base networks continues to drive demand.
Services operating income was $89 million down $24 million to 15.4% of revenue driven primarily by lower iDEN sales and lower gross margin associated with systems integration mix.
Gross margin in lifecycle management managed services and smart public safety was relatively flat.
While we will continue to see project mix related pressure in the first half of 2015 we expect gross margins to return to the mid 30% range going forward for our overall services business.
Total company operating expenses from continuing operations were $431 million down $86 million or 17% from the year ago quarter driven by continued cost reduction activities.
G&amp;A and R&amp;D posted the largest year-over-year declines and we expect significant savings across all major categories again for 2015.
Q4 other income and expense was a net expense of $39 million compared to $19 million in the year ago quarter.
The difference was primarily driven by ongoing higher interest expense in Q4 of 2014 and gains on investment sales in the prior year quarter.
In Q1 we expect OIE of $45 million versus $19 million in Q1 of 2014 driven primarily by higher interest expense.
Other income and expense is expected to be approximately $180 million for 2015.
With respect to taxes our Q4 effective tax rate was 35%.
Our Q1 and full year 2015 effective tax rate are expected to be approximately 33%.
More importantly we expect our cash tax rate to be approximately 15% for 2015 and continuing through 2019.
Turning to cash flow.
Q4 cash flow from operations was a net use of $700 million which includes $850 million in funding related to the US pension de-risking actions coupled with funding our UK plan.
For the year operating cash flow from continuing operations was a net use of $685 million driven by pension contributions of $1.3 billion.
We ended 2014 with $4 billion in total cash and $3.4 billion in debt.
In Q4 we repurchased $1.4 billion of stock.
For the full year we repurchased $2.5 billion in stock.
We have reduced our net share count by 36% since the programs inception in Q3 of 2011.
In addition we paid $82 million in dividends during the quarter and $380 million [ph] for the year.
Turning to our outlook.
We expect 2015 sales to be flat to down 2%.
In constant currency terms this translates to growth of 1% to 3% versus the prior year.
For the year we expect growth in North America growth in Latin America excluding iDEN growth in the Middle East we expect to be flat in Asia Pacific inclusive of currency headwinds contraction in Europe and Africa due to currency headwinds and the Norway implementation completion and a decline in iDEN of between $25 million and $50 million.
We also expect OpEx to be approximately – to be down approximately $150 million year-over-year.
Significant improvement in profitability with EBITDA in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.36 billion EPS of $3.15 to $3.35 and operating cash flow of approximately $1 billion for the full year.
In Q1 we expect sales to decline 2% to 4% reflecting better than anticipated order conversion in Q4 along with approximately $40 million in currency headwind.
In constant currency terms we expect revenue to be down 1% to up 1%.
This outlook assumes North America growth for the quarter and a contraction in Europe and Asia driven primarily by currency headwinds.
We expect Q1 EPS of $0.22 to $0.27.
I'll now turn it back to Greg.
Thanks.
I'll now provide some additional color on our Q4 results and outlook.
I am generally pleased with our Q4 results and more specifically the improving trends we're seeing in North America.
Q4 revenue was up slightly and marked the quarterly record for the company.
Despite stronger than anticipated end of the year order conversion and currency headwinds our backlog position still continue to grow and we ended Q4 with a higher total backlog higher product backlog and higher backlog schedule to ship in 2015.
From a regional perspective our North America business was up 4% in Q4 North America backlog is up $50 million in products and $586 million in services versus last year which is a positive sign for this region.
The Europe &amp; Africa region declined 5% in Q4 which marked the first decline in nine quarters currency headwinds was the key contributor to this decline and is expected to weigh on our full year results in the region.
However I believe we have and will continue to execute well relative to the market in this region and are well positioned for long-term growth as these factors dissipate.
Turning to the Asia Pac Middle East region we saw an 8% sales decline in Q4.
This decline was driven by Asia Pac.
However sales are starting to stabilize in this region and backlog is up sequentially as we're seeing some improvements in the customer pipeline.
Our Middle East business continues to grow and build momentum in both product and services backlog.
By the way these backlog numbers will continue to improve with the addition of the $200 million countrywide public safety LTE contract I referenced earlier.
And finally our Latin America business in Q4 increased 3% excluding iDEN and 1% overall.
Backlog in Latin America is up modestly year-over-year and up significantly from a sequential view driven by services.
To wind down of iDEN will continue to negatively impact this region disproportionately in 2015.
Turing to the segment highlights.
First in products we secured several strategic product awards in Q4 that include $148 million with the State of Michigan to upgrade their statewide ASTRO network including over $30 million in services $20 million with the state local customer in the Northeast to upgrade to a fully P25 compatible solution with improved coverage and improved inner operability $12 million with Eastman Chemical to enable their multi-state operations.
Moving to services.
I am encouraged by Q4 revenue growth in lifecycle support and managed services.
I think marketplace trends such as the prevalence of video and social media used in policing [continue to validate our investments scenarios such as real-time crime centers video and data analytics and CAD integration.
Services backlog is up significantly on new multi year deals despite currency headwinds.
Q4 brought several notable services wins including a $64 million extension with Prince George's County to provide full turn-key services and maintaining their mission-critical systems and smart public safety systems while keeping their networks up to date with various lifecycle products.
A two year $36 million managed services extension of the Victorian Mobile Data Network in Australia $31 million with the Las Vegas Metro PD for long-term software and hardware maintenance of radio and CAD systems as well as technical support in lifecycle services.
And $50 million with Mininco in Latin America for a multi-year managed services contract to include administration and monitoring of their network as well as the maintenance on their devices and a helpdesk for end users.
So let me close by saying this was a challenging but transformational year for our company.
We divested our enterprise business for just under $3.5 billion significantly improved our risk profile and cash flow through pension de-risking actions achieved more than $200 million in OpEx savings including over $70 million in R&amp;D reductions while simultaneously shifting more investment towards new growth areas.
We restructured the company to increase our focuses on services as a line of business and reaffirmed our commitment to capital return and a more efficient capita structure with $5 billion of additional repurchase authorization and $2.9 billion of stock buyback and dividends returned in 2014.
As a result of these actions we're in a better position.
We're in a better position to grow drive significant operating leverage deliver strong cash flow and drive shareholder value for years to come.
I'll now turn it over to Shep.
Thanks.
Before we begin taking questions I would like to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and a follow up so we can accommodate as many people as possible.
Operator would you please remind our callers on the line on how to ask a question.
Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] We can take our first question from Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Yes thanks for the question.
I just wanted to clarify one thing about the revenue trends.
And – so constant currency just taking currency out of it in Q4 you saw slight re-acceleration but you're decelerating again in Q1 slightly.
I know it's very slight but I was under the impression that just given the order backlog easy comps and visibility in government LTE all these things were going kind of cause revenues to gradually reaccelerate as you went through the year but you're starting the year off a little bit slow.
That's kind of one question on revenues.
And on the first quarter earnings guidance am I right that you're saying that the ops margin of the business is going to more than halve sequentially? That's a bit worse than the normal seasonal trend.
I know obviously you have to look at what government used to do but it seems a lot worse.
Is there something on the cost side or mix side that is going to be significant in the first quarter or first half that isn't there for the back half? Thanks.
Hello Kulbinder.
This is Gino.
I'll – we'll start with Q1 I think it’s instructive to note in Q1 that $40 million we have $40 million of pressure from FX headwind in Q1.
That’s 3% – 3 points of growth.
As well as iDEN being down $12 million which represents another point of growth.
In addition to about $40 million or 3 points of growth from better conversion of Q4 orders more revenue in Q4.
So that’s really what's impacting Q1.
From a margin perspective in Q1 I think that was the second part of the question earnings we did as you referenced we expect to continue to see some pressure in installation in our installation services margin based on project mix and the projects that were expected to deploy continuing from Q4 into Q1.
But we do expect that to stabilize and return to normal gross margin rates of 35% all approximately 35%.
Also incremental interest in OIE as well was driving a little bit of the EPS.
So Gino to understand that point this project mix can you elaborate a little bit because it's causing quite a seasonality if I get your comments right in the margin trends.
So what exactly is it? And it goes away quite quickly it sounds like.
I'm just trying to understand what exactly is going on.
It does it references some projects that we're currently deploying.
As an example the Nodnett project and we're deploying the northern part of Norway right now and the cost to deploy that is more challenging than the normal deployments.
So it’s really a reflection of the mix of projects we've had in Q1 Q4 and Q1 as those projects roll off the margin stabilizes.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
This is Ashwin on behalf of Rod.
Greg I was hoping you could comment on recent FCC spectrum auctions and if there is any change in your thinking on the pace of US Public Safety LTE roll-outs.
Also if you could give us some sense of how much US Public Safety LTE is included in your 2015 revenue guidance.
And is there any chance you can give us a growth rate excluding that for 2015? Yes.
Just a few things.
So we had talked about Public Safety LTE being about double in 2015 versus our run rate in 2014.
We still believe that that’s the case and feel even better about that amount with the securing of the third contract I talked about in the Middle East.
So we remain pretty resolute and expect that that will occur.
But little bit north of a $100 million in 2015.
I think the auction spectrum developments recently are a positive specifically as it relates to FirstNet the $44 billion of proceeds by the federal government allows the fully funding of the $7 billion that’s contemplated in the Middle Class Jobs Relief Act.
So at the end of the day here in the US the two most important things to facilitate and enable Public Safety LTE to be rolled out are dedicated spectrum and funding.
The spectrum has been dedicated as you know at the 700 megahertz slice that remains dedicated to public safety.
And the $7 billion is now fully funded with a very successful close of the AWS auction.
The only other thing I'd comment is our focus is on continued engagement globally on Public Safety LTE and there is still a pipeline of opportunities we'll pursue.
But I think this year is quite important for us to implement the deals that we have to implement LA-RICS to start the implementation on the deal we just secured last week and to implement in the second half of this year the other Middle Eastern country that we referred to with our $100 million deal.
And as we continue to compete and win on these deals we see no chilling or impact on LMR and continue to see LMR purchases and Public Safety LTE to be additive to those purchases.
So I think the auctions are positive.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we can take our next question from Ehud Gelblum with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Appreciate it.
A couple clarifications.
Can you give us a sense as to what the headwind from Norway looks like as you go into 2015? And then the product backlog looks strong it keeps going up.
One of the things I wonder you said Greg that the product backlog with respect to what falls in 2015 was strong as well.
Can you give us a sense to what the duration of that backlog did from the end of 2014 to the end – I am sorry from the end of 2013 to the end of 2014 with respect to if you were to say kind of the average of the backlog time wise.
Did it stay relatively constant or are we putting more longer-term contracts into the backlog? Just to get a sense of how immediate that backlog is.
And then lastly Gino on the guidance can you give us a sense as to where you think the gross and operating margins kind of settle out.
We can back in to it a little bit from the EPS but it's a wide range of EPS guidance for 2015.
I just want to make sure we're kind of on the right page as to the way that the operating margin settles out.
And what share count you were using to given all the buybacks that are going to happen to get us in to that rate range of $3.15 to $3.35? Thanks.
Sure.
Ehud this is Gino.
I'll start with respect to the Norway project we're completing the implementation this year later on this year and year-over-year 2015 versus 2014 there is less implementation revenue approximately $50 million of less revenue from an implementation perspective.
As we talked about the gross margins the system I'll remind you that the system is primarily deployment of the infrastructure.
The initial part of the project with the opportunity for incremental handsets and multi-year services beyond implementation.
The phase that we're talking about is the implementation phase of the project.
With respect to margins we expect gross margin profile to be consistent with last year overall and gross margins in product and services to be consistent.
And backlog? Yes.
The comment on backlog product backlog as we mentioned product backlog is up.
The duration of product backlog hasn’t really changed significantly.
In services backlog as we incrementally add multi-year service deals the duration of the services backlog does extend further than our traditional services backlog which didn’t include that magnitude of multi-year in some cases 15 20 year service deals.
Just a quick add on backlog thought I think part of your question Ehud was aging as we talked about last year in Q1 for this year $125 million additional aged in to the year of our backlog.
Okay.
That’s helpful… And in constant currency terms that’s reflected in the 1% to 3% growth.
Correct.
On the OpEx you mentioned that OpEx would be down $150 million I believe next year.
That gets us to around 165 if I'm doing the math a little lower than before.
Are there more actions that you're – is that a new program that's being implemented or is my math wrong or is it – or does FX help you a little bit on the OpEx side as well? I think Ehud as we continue to march forward and we go through this organization in a very systemic way under what we call a program run by Michael Lannis.
We continue to find opportunities to streamline and cost save.
We had $208 million of savings last year.
We raised it to your point to approximately another $150 million which by the way the majority of that from a run rate standpoint is already behind us given actions taken last year.
I don’t think that’s a limit or a floor but from a planning standpoint we think that’s the most useful amount to use at this point in time.
But we will continue to simplify the organization rationalize costs and as a pure play we think those opportunities are extended to us.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Next question? Our next question comes from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks very much.
Wanted to just clarify on your backlog comment.
Is your shippable backlog for 2015 up and if you can just quantify by how much? And then I just had a question on your federal exposure in the quarter.
I know that was something you had expected to come back.
If you can just give us some comments on how big that was and how you see that going forward.
Simona this is Gino.
I'll start with the backlog question.
Age backlog in 2015 is up and it’s up $125 million.
With respect… Okay.
And that’s across products and services together? That’s correct.
Okay.
Great.
So this is Mark.
With respect to our federal government sales as we talked about last year we expected the federal government business to stabilize.
We did actually realize slight growth in 2014.
So it did perform as expected.
We still see that business continuing as we expect.
We're kind of expecting flat to modest growth this year and we think it will relatively follow the way it normally has with first quarter and then ramping towards the federal close.
First quarter being a little bit slower but really no big changes that business now unlike what happened at the end of 2013 where we saw a real drastic reduction.
It has stabilized for us as we go forward.
And Mark is that business about 10% of the total and with it being up a little last year and expected to be up a little this year.
It feels like it's still kind of run rating maybe 20% or 30% below where it used to be kind of back in 2012 before all of these sequester actions and so forth came in to place.
So would you expect that to come back to those levels at some point? Or is this a permanent decline? So the size of the business is roughly 7% to 8% of our total.
It was slightly over $450 million last year.
You are correct that it declined as we talked about when we had that $150 million reduction 25% to 30%.
We're trying to not estimate a big ramp to grow back.
We're trying to take a view that it will grow back slowly.
I don’t know that it’s permanently lost but I don’t expect that increase to be as drastic as the fall off that happened at the end of 2013.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
First on the gross margin guide Gino you indicated flattish year-over-year.
I imagine foreign currency although a modest headwind on the top line has got to be a pretty material headwind on gross margin.
So I'm guessing –I'm just asking what is the offset there that allows you to feel comfortable in kind of a flattish year-over-year despite the FX headwind? And then Gino I think Airbus's DS Communications business has been up for sale for a little while.
Is there any strategic impact depending on who buys that? Any update on – do you have a preferable buyer is there any update on kind of timing of that or is that something that you think just won't affect you either way? Thanks.
Thanks Tavis.
On gross margin the headwind from a product cost perspective is not as significant as I think you're modeling.
Certainly we do have headwind.
We also have some tailwind based on where we manufacture and where some of our – from a BGM perspective where some of the work is done as well as from a manufacturing perspective.
And as it relates to Tavis as it relates to Airbus I think their announcement to exit the business clearly is been positive for us.
I think it provides disruption and dislocation to a number of customer installations that rely on them.
They have some interesting assets.
We'll see how that plays out.
But in the meantime we are competing pretty vigorously on some key opportunities where we are not the incumbent.
And we view that as an opportunity for us to pursue in 2015 and 2016.
It’s a good development for us.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Just a quick question on international.
So if I understand one of your comments in Asia excluding currency you viewed as actually been growing in South America.
This institution looks very stable and that's in Europe and Africa that most of your decline is.
So my first question is Europe and Africa excluding Norway excluding currency how do you feel the year like 2015 looks like? And then my second question would be what's the longer term outlook for international? Is it the place where you would expect still very solid growth drivers and would you expect international to actually grow faster than group average beyond this currency headwind beyond like the – thus compare that Norway created for this year? Thanks.
So Pierre this Mark.
As I think about international I'll kind of give you a little color around the world I'll start with the EA as you said.
If you think of EA minus Norway and minus the currency headwinds as you said the demand is still very positive in Norway.
Our growth across the business has been good again excluding the currency headwinds which you asked me to do.
The pipeline is also good which was referenced in the comment of Greg saying he think as these factors dissipate you'll see Europe and Africa return to growth.
We also see Africa is a good growth area for us in the future.
Latin America as you mentioned has been growing minus iDEN.
We expect that trend to continue.
iDEN will take down the overall numbers.
But the core business in Latin America continues to grow.
Middle East is actually coming off of really strong growth.
And we made some organizational changes to even put greater focus on the Middle East.
We've announced the large Public Safety LTE deal today but we also good growth in that region.
And then when we turn to Asia as we talked about for a while we've been disappointed with our recovery in Asia.
But with that being said we have built backlog.
We actually have recognized some large deals one of which was mentioned about Australia.
We've got a good short term pipeline in addition to our backlog.
So we see the Asia region stabilizing and being relatively flat inclusive of currencies and it would be growth without the currency headwinds.
So all in all to summarize and to answer your final question we do see international.
It’s a growth area.
The region again minus the large project and minus currency headwinds we would expect to grow at a faster rate than North America.
That's great.
Thanks Mark.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys thanks for taking my question.
If we assume that FX rates today are roughly where they are today does that change the competitive dynamics of where you guys do business around the world? I mean doesn't it give Airbus or some of the Chinese competitors an advantage over you guys based on how you guys go to market? No I don’t think so and especially with Airbus too given the disruption on what they are doing.
But generally Keith I would say broad base no.
Okay.
And then you guys talked obviously on top line about the impact that FX is going to have.
But as it rolls down to the bottom line is for both the fourth quarter and as you look out into the guidance what impact is FX having on your EPS numbers? Well it clearly has a commensurate flow-through benefit on the cost structure as well.
I think that is in part incorporated into the revised $150 million of cost target that we are now committing to incremental in 2015.
That said what I would say is despite fluctuation of foreign exchange rates because I am pretty confident that they will bounce around regardless to that we are still pursuing approximately $150 million despite currency fluctuation.
But would it be safe to say that $0.05 or $0.10 would be higher if FX was not I guess as drastically changed over the past few months? I think it would be fair more closer to $0.05 than to $0.10.
Got you.
And then for the fourth quarter? For the fourth quarter really in EPS terms one or perhaps one or two.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our last question from Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking the call.
First question when you look at the OpEx reductions that you've been identifying you've upped the high end of the target now another $50 million.
Greg how much more opportunity would you expect.
Is there any risk that you cut too deep? And the second part question a little different.
Looking at LTE in North America Greg you identified funding and spectrum as being the key hurdles.
When you think about a kind of a third hurdle being the political aspect getting everyone on the same page and building consortium and understanding where do you think we are in that process? Thanks.
On the cost side as I said we've gotten I think the team has responded really well in simplifying and reengineering business processes and getting unnecessary cost out.
Largely as a result to the – being a pure play from a portfolio standpoint and we're going to continue to do that.
I don’t think there is a limit or a ceiling my team knows that too.
So we're pleased and by the way when you think about and dimensionalize the $350 million of cost reduction coming off 2013 that more than replaces the earnings that the enterprise business was contributing that we just monetized to Zebra.
So we like that fact and this business is set up well from an operating leverage standpoint when the top line returns.
On LTE in the United States I think funding in spectrum are enablers I don’t think they are hurdles I mean because they've been achieved.
The spectrum is been dedicated in the funding has now been fully populated at $7 billion.
On the political front you're right it’s the continual battle between federal and state local control what kind of architecture and the number regions.
The only thing I would say Ben is we work more closely with FirstNet than we've ever done before and we're committed to their success and working with them in particular at NTIA to make sure LA-RICS gets rolled out appropriately.
So the political side of that will continue to unfold in 2015 and 2016 and our government affairs team and the business development people of sales organizations are working hand and glove with them.
So we are coordinated and achieving the opportunities and the expectations that people have with that network.
Thank you.
You bet.
And as we have no further questions.
I'll turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
As mentioned at the outset we made a number of forward-looking statements during the call including outlook related to OpEx gross margins other income expense sales EBITDA EPS operating cash flow as well as effective and cash tax rates currency impact growth and contraction by region iDEN revenue declined and backlog as well as the growth of Public Safety LTE.
Thanks and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions’ First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the line will be opened for your questions following the presentation.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thanks Aaron and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss first quarter results.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark will join for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
We have posted an earnings presentation and press release in motorolsolutions.com.
These materials include a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation for your reference which we encourage you to review.
In addition we will post an historical view of the combined Government and iDEN business for the past eight quarters on our site later today.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I would like to now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep and good morning and thanks for joining us today.
I’d like to share a few thoughts with you relative to our overall business and specifically to the quarter.
First following the sale of our Enterprise business our remaining business will be positioned as a singularly focused leader in mission-critical communications to public safety and commercial customers.
I believe our government business is truly differentiated with an outstanding product portfolio a vast and global install base R&amp;D leadership a great sales and partner network and people that wake up everyday thinking about mission-critical communications.
And I am excited about the opportunities that lie ahead of us and believe this business is positioned for solid profitable growth over the long-term.
I wanted to highlight some key points relative to the Enterprise transaction itself.
First we expect the deal to close by the end of the year or sooner generating cash proceeds of $3.45 billion which we intend to return to shareholders in a timely manner.
This transaction is effectively tax free to us and preserves our deferred tax assets.
The deal will include our reported Enterprise segment with the exception of iDEN which will remain with Motorola Solutions.
Approximately 4 500 people will transition to Zebra along with other Enterprise assets and liabilities.
Approximately $100 million of stranded costs allocated to our Enterprise segment will remain with MSI following the sale.
We are moving swiftly to eliminate or offset these stranded costs and Gino will cover that in more detail in a few minutes.
Now moving on to the quarter there are three key points I would like to emphasize.
First sales were lower than we expected during the quarter.
Approximately $20 million of the difference is attributable to the Government business while Enterprise made up the balance as we originally anticipated growth in Enterprise for the quarter.
As we previously indicated aged backlog in Q1 was the primary driver for the year-on-year decline.
We also saw additional weakness in overall North America market demand.
Second we plan to reduce our cost structure to reflect both the Enterprise sale impact as well as the current business environment.
While we made solid progress on taking cost and inefficiencies out of our business since we launched MSI at the beginning of 2011 we will accelerate our cost reduction actions in 2014.
We have a number of opportunities that we will look at including reducing our real estate footprint reducing IT complexity reducing manufacturing costs and improving overall supply chain efficiency.
And third and finally the fundamentals of our Government business remain strong.
Our pipeline remains robust and we continue to grow multi-year services backlog in core business – in our core business year-on-year while posting another quarter of services growth.
These factors coupled with investments in growth such as areas as public safety LTE geographic and vertical market expansion and smart public safety have us positioned well for long-term growth.
I will now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on our Q1 results and then I will return to provide additional thoughts and color on the quarter.
Thank you Greg.
Today we reported first quarter GAAP sales of $1.8 billion a decrease of 9% from last year.
Sales in Government declined 11% while Enterprise sales were down 4% and less than 1% when excluding the iDEN business.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $212 million or 12% of sales and operating cash flow improved by $77 million over the prior year quarter.
On a GAAP basis net earnings were $0.49 per share compared to $0.68 in the year ago quarter.
Non-GAAP net earnings were $0.50 per share compared to $0.66 per share in Q1 of last year.
For the remainder of this call we will reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Turning to our Government reporting segment Government sales in Q1 were $1.2 billion a decrease of 11% from the prior year.
The biggest driver of Q1 revenue decline was our North America business primarily due to lower aged backlog a challenging federal business comparison and lower than expected subscriber orders during the quarter.
And while we planned for North America government to be down in Q1 and for the year overall market demand fell below those expectations.
Our Europe and Africa region grew due to strong TETRA product and services performance driven by a number of large contracts.
Asia-Pacific and the Middle East declined low single-digits approximately $4 million.
And our professional and commercial radio business grew high single-digits in the all regions with the exception of North America which declined by $39 million reflecting overall market demand weakness.
Operating income in the Government segment was $140 million down $77 million to 11.7% of revenue driven by the impact of lower sales.
Enterprise revenue excluding iDEN were down $4 million or less than 1% to $573 million as certain deals moved out of Q1.
We remain encouraged by the continued customer engagement and momentum in our new products.
Operating income in the Enterprise business was $72 million or 12% up from the year ago quarter.
Improved gross margins and lower OpEx drove the improved earnings.
For total MSI operating expenses were $639 million which is down $45 million from the year ago quarter driven by actions taken in 2013 as well as additional actions taken in Q1.
These actions include a reduction of our real estate footprint by almost 1 million square feet since the beginning of 2013.
This comprises nearly 25 sites including the sale of a portion of our headquarters in Schaumburg during Q1 which generated $25 million in cash and also the sale of our Reynosa Mexico manufacturing facility which closed just a few days ago.
The Enterprise sale will provide additional opportunities for optimizing our footprint and fixed costs to align with our more focused business needs.
Giving the Enterprise sale the pending enterprise sale and current market environment we are moving swiftly to simplify our corporate structure and reduce additional costs.
As such we plan to reduce approximately $200 million of cost.
$100 million which offsets the stranded costs Greg talked of will be reduced in 2014.
An incremental $100 million will be removed over the next 18 to 24 months.
These savings will come from G&amp;A as well as select areas within R&amp;D and sales and marketing.
Shifting to other income and expense this line item was a net expense of $19 million in the quarter compared to a net expense of $11 million in the year ago quarter.
Our interest expense of $25 million was partially offset by $7 million of gains on the sale of several investments within our ventures portfolio during the quarter.
We expect this line item to be an expense of approximately $45 million in Q2.
For the remainder of the year we continue to expect this line item to be an expense of approximately $40 million per quarter which is primarily driven by $35 million of quarterly interest expense.
We expect the Q2 tax rate to be 33% to 34%.
Upon the close of the Enterprise sale we expect our ongoing effective tax rate to be 32% to 33%.
Based on our current outlook we expect our cash tax rate to be in the range of 10% to 15% for the full year 2014.
As a result of the Enterprise sale we now expect a cash tax rate of approximately 15% through 2019 an additional two years.
Moving on to cash flow cash generated by operating activities in the first quarter was $46 million a $77 million improvement from the prior year primarily from the timing of our long-term contract milestone buildings and the return of cash that was seized by the Government of India related to a tax dispute in the first quarter of 2013.
Partially offsetting these items we saw an uptick in inventory at quarter end due to lower than expected sales in both segments.
We ended Q1 with $3.1 billion in total cash and $2.5 billion in debt.
With respect to capital return we repurchased $57 million or approximately 1 million shares at an average price of $66.32 per share.
This lower repurchase activity was a result of trading restrictions due to the ongoing discussions leading to the Enterprise sale announcement.
In addition to repurchase activity we paid $79 million in dividends during the quarter.
As a reminder we have approximately $1.7 billion remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
We have repurchased 26% of the net share count outstanding since Q3 of 2011 at an average price of $50.13 per share.
Now turning to our outlook we expect total company sales for Q2 to decline 5% to 8% with non-GAAP earnings per share between $0.58 and $0.64.
For total MSI we expect 2014 sales to be down low-single digits with operating margins of approximately 18.5% consistent with our prior outlook.
We expect government revenues to be down 8% to 11% for the second quarter.
For the full year we expect government sales to decline low to mid-single digits.
iDEN sales are expected to decline by $20 million in Q2 compared to Q2 2013 and approximately $100 million for the full year.
I will now turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
Now I would like to spend some time on the Q1 results and business units.
Our Q1 ASTRO contract wins continued.
Some of the large notable contracts included a $113 million system refresh and services contract with the State of Indiana multiple Latin America military customers worth nearly $60 million several Canadian first responder and city contracts and Asia Police and Middle East Defense departments.
The wins also spanned our portfolio with wins in Phase 2 TDMA systems APX radios services software upgrades and consoles.
In Q1 we added three new models to our industry leading APX 25 portfolio and now have a number of product families with targeted derivatives of each product to meet customer needs.
The additional radio models include new small value based ruggedized form factors as well as our dual band P25 LTE radio that enables LMR voice and faster over the air data transfer.
On the systems side we added key software and systems enablement that includes automatic vehicle tracking a command center application for geographic top group management and software enablement for migrating customer transitions from analog to digital.
Our TETRA business grew double digits driven by strong subscriber shipments and services.
Our portfolio position and customer focus continue to drive current success and positive momentum for the future.
In Q1 we successfully demonstrated live video streaming over Norway’s Nodnett TETRA network using TETRA enhanced data services.
We also earned awards at 2014 TETRA International for best TETRA innovation and best use of TETRA utilities.
Our global momentum and TETRA wins continued in multiple verticals such as government corrections and railroad.
Our professional and commercial radio business declined single digits compared to the year ago quarter driven by lower sales in North America and reflecting lower overall market demand.
We had solid single-digit growth in all other regions.
Additionally we are continuing to demonstrate our leadership in this market with our best in class digital portfolio and we continued to invest for growth.
For example we acquired Twisted Pair Solutions a recognized leader in push to talk over broadband applications for secure real time communication anywhere and on any device.
And finally we see encouraging engagement in both the government and commercial PCR businesses winning major deals with the railroad a major automotive manufacturer and a multi-million dollar deal in retail.
In addition we continue to invest for the long-term in our growth areas including public safety LTE services and smart public safety.
In Q1 we expanded our public safety LTE portfolio with the refresh of our LEX 700 to utilize the Android operating system.
Additionally we launched the APX 7000L a converged device that utilizes LTE for fast data transfer on a land mobile radio voice device.
And we are seeing marketplace validation of this focus with the recent wins such as the $175 million LA-RICS contract as well as the previously announced international public safety LTE contract for $100 million.
Additionally we continue to grow our services business that includes traditional network management as well as expanded offerings to include managed service offerings and smart public safety solutions.
In Q1 alone we closed eight large service deals with durations as long as 20 years.
Additional significant support agreements were also signed with the Public Building Commission of Chicago and the Minnesota Department of Transportation.
Lastly three European police departments selected us for multi-year life cycle services as well.
These service contracts demonstrate our ability to secure various recurring revenue streams built on our mission critical platforms and services.
Turning to the Enterprise business which will be reported in discontinued operations beginning in Q2 the Enterprise business excluding iDEN declined $4 million or approximately 1% versus Q1 of 2013.
Globally mobile computing declined single digits offset by single-digit improvements in advanced data capture and double-digit growth in WLAN.
In North America mobile computing was down double digits due to fewer large orders and channel softness while advanced data capture was up double digits.
Europe and Africa was up single digits on strong mobile computing demand and growth across the portfolio.
Asia-Pac Middle East was down low double digits primarily in enterprise global computing against strong comps in Q1 of 2013 and several deals being pushed out of the quarter.
The Enterprise product portfolio continues to evolve its industry leading position with the growth of the Android portfolio.
We continue to see strong demand for the Android based TC55 and we have recently won a significant multi-million dollar order with a large U.S.
retailer for nearly 4 000 units.
Additionally the adoption of Android has been robust with the strengthening partner ecosystems supported by a significant uptick in partners going from Gingerbread to Jelly Bean and 135 Android applications now certified on our devices.
The traction on other new product wins was also notable with a major contract win for 10 000 units of our Smart Badge 1 to CVS.
Likewise we expanded our MP6000 rollout with a major global retailer.
And finally our focus on transitioning our WLAN solution to a more services based model has helped drive a significant double-digit jump in WLAN revenue.
Lastly our product innovation received numerous industry awards as well including the HC1 as an Edison Award finalist and the VC70 which was chosen for the 2013 Good Design Award and the TC55 Red Dot Award.
Now having said all that let me close with four points on our Government business.
First even though we planned for North America to be down for the quarter and for the year the overall market demand is lower than we expected.
So as a result I am obviously disappointed in the recent challenges we have had in calling the business.
But second despite this environment we gained worldwide market share in each of our major products in 2013.
Third we still believe in the long-term growth and fundamentals of this business given our pipeline and strong backlog.
Our backlog is growing year-on-year driven largely by multi-year services contracts and we are very well positioned with recent wins in public safety LTE.
And fourth and finally our singularly focused company will enable greater operational efficiency and improved agility.
We intend to streamline our corporate structure that improves our operating leverage as we return to growth and given our excess capital the pending Enterprise transaction and operating cash flow potential the opportunity still remains for a healthy return of capital.
I will now turn it back over to Shep before we open it up for questions.
Thanks.
Before we begin taking questions I would like to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up so we can accommodate as many participants as possible.
Operator could you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question.
The floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
I guess my two questions are your – you expected North America business to be down this year what was the rationale for the expectation it looks like your biggest competitor in North America is also seeing double digit declines is there something inherent in the market right now that causing this weakness whether it’s a pause in front of LTE or are we still coming off narrow band I was just trying to understand why it doesn’t seem to be an MSI issue it seems to be an industry issue? And then secondly just a clarification on the full year guidance is the full year guidance including Enterprise or is that with Enterprise as a disco op? Thanks.
Tavis thanks.
On the first question I think it’s primarily a North America government issue and I think we underestimated the overhanging impact from narrowbanding.
I think that we are still very well positioned for the long-term fundamentals but to your point I think it’s more of an industry issue.
I don’t think it’s a structural issue.
I think it’s a temporary issue given the narrowbanding and quite frankly perhaps even iDEN Sprint network shutdown because we had record years in 2011 and 2012 in state and local in ASTRO subscriber and PCR and that’s really what I think it is.
We still plan for North America to be down for both the quarter and the year in 2014 but knowing what we know now I think narrowbanding had a greater impact than we originally thought.
In terms of full year guidance I will turn it to Gino.
Tavis in terms of full year guidance the low to mid single-digit for government that we stated is not inclusive of iDEN.
We mentioned iDEN before mentioned $100 million reduction in iDEN revenue.
Was that the question Tavis? Let me clarify so that low to mid single-digit that doesn’t include the iDEN decline? That’s correct? It does not.
It does not.
And then the 18.5% operating margin is that inclusive of enterprise or is that government and iDEN combined or just government? It’s government and iDEN combined.
But not enterprise? Well it’s actually the same number.
Okay either way.
Right.
Got it.
Okay cool.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
So first of all Greg could you give us a bit more color on what happened how things played out between late January when you guided for the first quarter and like a couple of months later when you realized you would not – you would have to announce numbers below your guidance.
On my rough mark you had a shortfall in revenue like in the 3% 4% region and if you think about 80% of your business being something in which you have a bit of clarity with your backlog as a percentage of the 20% of revenues you had to go after in this quarter it’s quite a big number.
And so any color you could give us on where like the disappointment came from and why you have that much visibility on that? And then from there if you could tell us how you have been building out your guidance for Q2 in terms of this 20% of the business you have to go after how much – how do you feel about that how much risk do you see on that number? And then your full year guidance for government implies quite a second half after all if I am not wrong in my early calculations.
And so I am just curious to invest in where you get this confidence from in terms of the second half where do you think you will have better visibility and if that’s the case why? So Pierre I will do my best to recount.
You asked a few questions.
First of all on the 80% visibility coming into the quarter approximately 80% that remains unchanged.
You described it well that in any one quarter we have about 20% to go get coming into a quarter.
Given the size of the business of MSI that’s still about $400 million roughly per quarter what’s different than January is we underestimated the overhang impact of narrowbanding and as a result we had the $20 million government shortfall speaking to government now in Q1 and then we had movement in orders in Q1 and Q2 then I will turn it over to Mark Moon for additional commentary.
I think as it relates to our Q2 guidance it’s our best estimate that we have incorporated into some of the things that we are seeing now hence the negative 8% the negative 11% for the Government segment itself.
And then on the full year I will ask Mark to provide some color.
Thanks Greg.
And I think when we talk about Q1 as we said obviously we knew that we have the gap – we had to convert some orders in Q1 to be able to make the revenue guidance that we have provided.
The piece that we had also called out was the impact of narrowbanding which we underestimated.
And Greg also briefly mentioned the Nextel shutdown which actually led to strong growth in our PCR business the last couple of years and even in the first quarter of last year that spilled over.
Gino called out that was $39 million is well of a miss that we had underestimated.
So as a result of those things and orders not only converting in the quarter so we were expecting to convert orders that would provide revenue in Q2 and for the rest of year.
Now on re-look we see many of those orders approximately $300 million in the first half that have been pushed to the second half.
Now with that said the pipeline and our visibility to those orders and orders in the second half is very good.
In fact we continue to have very good engagements and our second half pipeline is over $1 billion stronger than the first half pipeline.
So when you talked at the end about what would give us confidence or risk and the comments that you made around the second half it is really that pipeline the fact that we have got a number of contracts that we have received in hand a couple in particular like LA-RICS and the State of Maryland that we now have $75 million that is not currently aged in our backlog.
And as we move for the full year remember the second half of last year had a huge decline in federal government.
We talked about $150 million decline in the second half.
It was the worst second half and the worst full year we have ever had in federal government.
Now we have budget certainty which was approved in January which we didn’t have last year.
The pipeline is reflecting a ramp up from the government shutdown and some pent up demand.
So at the end of the day we really have good visibility to what we are calling throughout the rest of the year.
And from a federal perspective we are really only assuming modest growth for the full year.
Even though it will be a $70 million increase in the second half only very modest less than 20% growth for the full year again coming off the worst year we have had.
Next question.
Thank you.
We will next go to Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks very much.
I have just a couple of questions.
The first one is as I recall for most of last year you were seeing a higher mix shift of infrastructure sales.
I think you might have said that it was a double-digit increase and historically we see a follow-on effect with higher device sales which were in fact weak in the quarter you just reported.
Can you just walk us through that dynamic a little bit? Would you still expect those follow-on device sales and there might have been some reason for why they didn’t come through but they should still come through in the rest of the year or there is something different about those infrastructure sales last year? Simona this is Mark.
We don’t really see anything different about infrastructure sales.
And as you talked about into the comments that we made early was that subscribers were less than we had anticipated in the quarter.
In fact we continue to have stronger infrastructure sales which we are positive about.
We also continue to have stronger multi-year services sales which are building very strong backlog but not necessarily feeding revenue in the very short-term.
When we talk about the Nextel shutdown and when we also talk about narrowbanding which pulled a lot of new infrastructure or accelerated infrastructure into the year that also led to some subscriber acceleration which led to the piece that we talked about here in Q1 and Q2.
As an overall result we still expect we believe our portfolio is in wonderful shape.
We mentioned a couple of new models of our industry leading APX portfolio.
We still expect subscriber growth to return as we move forward.
Okay.
And then my second question was on the new APX 7000L which I think is your first converged device that handles both LTE data and LMR voice.
So that seems to be a change relative to how you initially were approaching this market with separate LMR and LTE devices.
And so I was hoping you can talk about the strategy there a little bit? And also if we think about this device relative to an equivalent LMR-only device what would be the like-for-like ASP list? There is really no change in strategy.
In fact we have always talked about we will continue to lead in our mission-critical voice portfolio.
And as we have talked about we believe we will also lead in public safety LTE portfolio both in infrastructure and devices.
We have often talked about the end to end portfolio and services component that we believe we will offer that none of our other competitors will.
This first converged device we think is what the industry will ultimately want to go to.
We know that customers as Greg mentioned LA-RICS earlier will look to have devices like that that are able to both handle LMR and LTE.
There will also be the need for collaborative devices and most customers will like that dual devices LMR device and a LTE only device which will also feed that portfolio both with devices and with modems as we go forward.
So all in all it’s strictly own our strategy of record.
We actually again believe we are leading.
We are excited about this new product.
And the ASPs will be slightly again as you would think this is complementary to having more features more capabilities and the ASPs will be slightly higher than what you would see in a traditional LMR or P25 device.
So just to clarify I think in the past you had talked about LTE as kind of an incremental multi-billion opportunity which if it was an incremental device I can sort of see how that could happen if this is really still the same device but with more features and a slightly higher ASPs would that still support that kind of large incremental opportunity or should we just think of it as more of a slight ASP mix shift effect over time but not really a multi-billion increment? I will let Mark answer but Simon I think we still see it as an incremental multi-billion dollar opportunity over the long term both infrastructure and subscriber devices.
There are people but – some that will keep different devices video or data only and voice LMR.
There are some that will go with converged devices.
And for some with converged devices it’s not just necessarily an ASP potential lift but it could also be an event over time to upgrade subscriber radios.
So it really doesn’t change the way we have looked at it and we still see LTE and public safety LTE as being incremental to the land mobile radio business.
Yes.
Just complementing I think it’s just – this new announcement is another device in our overall portfolio.
As you are aware we had announced last year a LEX 700 device that was actually Microsoft based.
We have now come back with a Google upgrade of that as well or Android upgrade.
We will also announce this device and there will be a series of devices just like we do in the LMR portfolio we will continue to build out that subscriber and device portfolio for public safety LTE.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Ehud Gelblum with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Awesome.
Thanks.
So first thing on narrowbanding I am glad that you are starting to see that it probably had more of an impact.
It did kind of end a year and a half ago mostly in 2012 even though there is a little bit of an impact probably in 2013 when you are looking at your long-term growth rate and you are basing it on historical numbers narrowbanding obviously didn’t just happen in 2012 it was something that was out there for a number of years five six seven years and kept being pushed out so there is a chance that narrowbanding may have had an impact to your growth rate numbers for five six years even before you split off from Motorola Mobility how do you get a handle on what the true underlying growth rate is to give you confidence on your long-term growth rate of 2% to 3% versus thinking that maybe all the historical numbers that you have looked at may actually not be necessarily indicative of what’s going forward putting aside LTE.
And then I have got a follow-up on operating margins.
Thanks.
So maybe we will tag team it.
But I think if you normalize the way we think about it is normalize for the record years of 2011 and ‘12.
And then maybe even to your point maybe it’s a little bit longer than that in anticipation.
It’s still from last 7 years or last 10 years the average historical compounded annual growth rate is about 4% 4.5%.
But forgetting the rear view mirror looking forward we still believe really the long-term fundamentals remain sound.
We still believe that mission critical communications remains an utmost priority.
We still look at the multi-billion dollar install base internationally as an addressable market opportunity to upgrade.
We have talked about the fact that there is about 10 000 plus systems 16% more than 10 years old.
When you look at the PCR radio business and that base 35 million or 40 million PCR radios worldwide 90% analog 10% digital.
There is the opportunities for growth that are geographical and vertical market expansion in our core mission critical business.
As we provide more long-term services contract and lock a customer up for the long-term it protects the customer base.
It allows for technology refresh.
It allows for more long-term annuity revenue streams.
And then lastly is public safety LTE which we believe as earlier stated is incremental.
The U.S.
and other countries are taking a business model that dedicates or allocates the spectrum which is the model we believe is appropriate that will allow for public safety LTE infrastructure and incremental subscriber demand on top of that.
So that’s what we believe – not just historically but we believe in the longer term growth drivers to get this to a low to mid-single digit business.
So you think it’s about let’s say about two or three? I mean we – I don’t want to be that precise given some of the recent challenges we have had I would just say low to mid.
Okay.
On operating margin if you just look historically at the pattern Enterprise in 2010 and ‘11 had a higher operating margin than Government did primarily because iDEN was in that mix 2012 Government took over and was higher in terms of margin more profitability and same with 2013 it looks like from Gino your comments that both Enterprise and Government will have the same 18.5% operating margin this year.
When you say that I am not 100% sure from the prior question whether where you are putting that corporate overhead the $100 million dollars is that in the Government that get – when you said they both have 18.5% is that...? Yes.
So Ehud just so I am clear when we talked about 18.5% we talked about approximately 18.5% for total MSI and approximately 18.5% for Remainco.
In Remainco in Government the stranded costs are in Government.
The $100 million of actions to offset those stranded costs that we will execute on in 2014 are predominantly Government segment actions.
So then the $100 million additional in the next 12 to 18 months on roughly a $6 billion Remainco total gives you another 150 basis points with no – assuming no revenue growth of operating margin expansion we would assume that going forward that as revenue grows therefore so is that $100 million taking your OpEx from now and taking $100 million out and that’s your OpEx number or is OpEx going to grow from revenue growth and then $100 million off of what it would have been otherwise because if you grow 3% you will grow the top line about $100 million and you will expand operating margin that way in which case we could be go 200 to 300 basis points of operating margin expansion.
If you can just help us understand what happens to OpEx as revenue grows I guess vis-à-vis the $100 million OpEx…? Clearly as revenue grows there is opportunity for operating leverage.
The commentary around cost reduction was the $200 million you think about it in terms of Remainco $200 million is approximately a 10% BGM reduction on Remainco.
Obviously with revenue growth we have the opportunity for operating margin expansion.
On the current OpEx level though can you handle 3% revenue growth or will operating margin – operating expenses have to grow with a 3% top line let’s say? Without getting into modeling ‘15 and ‘16 there may be slight OpEx increases but we believe that we will be able to expand operating margin and we will have operating leverage when we return to growth.
Yes Ehud as Gino said $100 million is to be taken out.
The target is to take it out this year.
There is another $100 million beyond that.
We are targeting about $200 million.
By the way there could be more than that.
If there is we will pursue that accordingly but it’s a below gross margin target.
And Gino is right.
There could be some uptick as the business returns to growth.
But our goal is to size the business to a lower fixed cost model and a cost basis that’s a reflection of more of a pure play simplified corporate structure.
So since we are the Remainco business that spun off Mobility which is mobile devices and set-top boxes we monetized the network business and sold it to Nokia Siemens.
We are doing what we think we are very excited about the Enterprise transaction to Zebra.
We have had good customer feedback on putting those assets together for a pretty compelling end-to-end Enterprise Mobility play.
We are simply saying that while we have taken action there is room for more in the areas that we talked about real estate IT supply chain G&amp;A and we are going to size the business as a reflection of our more simplified structure.
And this is the time to do that.
Great.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
Yes.
And our next question comes from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate the opportunity to ask question.
I guess first question on your gross margins gross margins were down for the quarter.
Hoping you can give me a little bit of color on that? I am assuming a little bit is probably due to just the lower volume but yet I see services are down significantly I guess quarter-over-quarter.
If it’s Government-related Enterprise-related just any color you can offer there? Sure.
With respect to gross margin it’s really a function of – we are not seeing ASP erosion in the Government segment within any specific products.
So it’s a function of higher infrastructure and deployment services versus subscribers as well as higher TETRA volumes versus ASTRO and services growing faster than the overall business which has an impact on gross margin but with a similar OE profile.
As well the impact of a lower iDEN number impacts the gross margin percentage as well.
Got it.
So in general does TETRA have a lower gross margin than ASTRO? Yes.
Okay got it got it.
And then next question I guess is more on competitive threats going forward and perhaps I don’t understand the acquisition of Twisted Pair Solutions and what they do so much but can you speak to I guess a competitive threat or is there a competitive threat with public safety forces who perhaps don’t need the mission-critical device but have used one historically say like a police chief or fire chief is there a threat of those guys using a consumer device where previously they perhaps did not? Is that a concern going forward? I think if you look at those type of executives in policing as you just kind of described most of them are carrying dual devices today.
They carry a radio.
They also carry a cell phone.
So primarily when you think about the Twisted Pair acquisition it really wasn’t targeted at that executive level of public safety even though it could be but take a similar example in the commercial space where you have a plant manager that may not want to carry a radio that carries a cell phone but maybe more to make from that cell phone a push-to-talk call back to folks within the plant or within the manufacturing facility.
That Twisted Pair combined with our MOTOTRBO Anywhere gives that capability.
So that could also be applied to an executive within public safety.
And as we look at the Twisted Pair technology we certainly are also leveraging that capability and technology as we move in our public safety LTE direction.
But all-in-all mission-critical voice is still a constant it’s still a priority.
And throughout the world public safety still is moving and continuing to see the importance of mission-critical voice.
Just one additional item Keith is probably the closest substitute to mission-critical voice that was available has been available historically was really the Nextel the iDEN technology in terms of setup time in terms of one to many groups.
And through the Nextel period we saw growth in mission-critical voice.
So we believe that mission-critical voice continues to be very important.
And there is really from a substitution perspective there is nothing available that really shares the attributes in terms of a hardened network call setup time one-to-many that we offer in our voice.
So if I understand correctly from what you are saying it is not asked by a threat of those I guess unique individuals who perhaps have previously had a radio they can now use a consumer device like a phone with a software solution? As you are saying that’s not necessarily a threat to the overall sale of devices? As a matter of fact I think it’s an opportunity to combine as Mark said someone who traditionally perhaps would not interact with a fleet with an LMR fleet they have the ability on their device to talk to a plant manager that leaves the plant or anyone who leaves the coverage area would have the ability to interface on an LMR network.
So there is a lot of conversations Keith about over-the-top push-to-talk exactly what you are just describing.
And where we are saying that application if it’s getting any traction is in the commercial space we are seeing almost zero traction in mission-critical voice because of the attributes that Gino described.
Got it.
Alright I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Tim Long with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
One for Gino one for Greg.
Gino you talked a little bit about the gross margin in the quarter understanding mix going forward that will change around but it sounds like some of Greg’s initial comments talked about supply chain manufacturing costs and some efficiencies to be gained more on the gross margin line.
So just talk to us a little bit about mix aside what type of benefits we could see from some of the more gross margin-focused actions? And then Greg I am just – this is certainly at least the second year in a row where we are seeing pretty backend loading of the year.
So do you think that’s the trend or that’s the norm from now on and maybe have to plan the business accordingly or do you think it’s just a coincidence that it’s been two in a row where we have gotten off to pretty weak starts in the year? Thank you.
Well let me do the second one and then Gino will talk gross margin.
I think they are different.
I think if we look at last year the challenge we had was the unprecedented second half drop of our federal business.
We have never seen it decline to levels in 10 years plus on the second half of last year.
This is a Government business comment.
And that being of course no budget and the government shutdown which happened – hasn’t happened in about 20 years.
That was a unique pressure point on the Government business in the second half.
And then last year of course we had the Enterprise business and the cyclicality of that and trying to call its recovery.
I think this is different.
I think about this Government business and this is more of a narrowbanding we believe overhang.
So I think the causes are necessarily different last year and this year.
And I wouldn’t necessarily conclude Tim that it’s a trend longer term.
We are just trying to comment on what we see this year and I think the factors are different – a little bit different this year than last.
Okay.
Tim on gross margin we talked about Q1 and we talked about some of the differences between products and products versus services and the impact in Q1.
Going back to Greg’s comments on additional opportunities we are around this idea of becoming singularly focused on one segment and reducing our structure and reducing fixed costs.
An example of that would be I mentioned the Reynosa Mexico facility manufacturing facility that we had that we sold just announced a few days ago.
So we believe there are opportunities within IT to reduce complexity and simplify within our real estate footprint manufacturing footprint to reduce complexity and simplify that will lead to a lower breakeven and a better cost profile.
I mentioned the million square foot reduction since the beginning of 2013 I think it’s instructive to note that since spin we have had a 5 million square foot reduction about 40% of our total square footage from spin to now has been reduced as well as 40 sites that have been closed since that timeframe.
So that work will continue and it will continue at an accelerated pace given the new MSI profile.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from Peter Misek with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Maybe go back to the long-term growth rate and try and tackle it a different way maybe you can give a sense for the install base of physical equipment and infrastructure domestically any kind of rough age you can give us on that and maybe how that relates to LTE and FirstNet? And then I had a question on cash return.
So when you think about the age of the infrastructure I think Greg may have mentioned it but about 60% of the infrastructure that’s deployed is over 10 years old so relatively aging.
90% of the devices that are out there today are still analog have not moved to digital.
As you know the new technology is moving all to digital.
So the install base that is there is certainly in a position to be churned.
And given our portfolio we think there are capabilities that will also besides just aging push for some of that churn because of new features and functionality new capabilities that are now available in our portfolio and through digital technology.
As far as the LTE piece of that what we are seeing today is no impact on the traditional mission critical technologies from LTE.
In fact LA-RICS is a wonderful example where they just procured in a similar time the LTE network and a mission critical P25 network.
The customer that’s in Europe that we described a quarter ago for $100 million also is deploying a mission critical P25 technology.
So the capabilities of each are different.
One is about big data and being able to have video and situational awareness.
The other is primarily about mission critical voice and the other features and capabilities that we have talked about for many years.
Any way you can give us a size of that install base that is you said over 60% of the install base is 10 plus years old any way that we could sort of size that install base? Yes.
Pete it’s several billion.
But I would leave it at several billion.
We will try to give some more color I think as we go forward.
Because I think if you step back and you try and get a sense for that size how much longer they could extend that life what the savings are by moving to some of the newer mission critical voice and then by layering in the advantages of LTE maybe that can help us get a sense for whether that long term growth rate you have put out there is really easily achievable or stretchable.
Just in terms of cash return obviously you are hoping the Enterprise deal is going to close here sooner rather than later maybe you can articulate how you are thinking of splitting up that cash return is it a bulk in terms of share repurchase and should we think of a tender offer for your shares as a way of using that cash up appropriately or are you going to hold it on your balance sheet and divvy it up over time in dividends and share repurchases and small acquisitions? Thank you.
So Peter I think the – as we stated in the call a couple weeks ago the intent is to return the proceeds of the transaction in a timely manner.
We haven’t articulated and we will continue to work through exactly what form that takes and we will update you on that soon.
But it is not our intent to hold that cash on the balance sheet.
So you would anticipate that shortly after the close of the enterprise transaction there would be a capital return on that? Yes.
We will return it in a timely manner and we will update you when the time is appropriate.
Perfect.
Thank you guys.
And our next question comes from Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Rod Hall your line is open.
And we will now move to Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just one question really can you give an update on FirstNet where do you see it at when do you – are we still looking at early next year for an impact on that just any color you could provide would be appreciated? Thank you.
I think we continue to work pretty closely with FirstNet and we are successful in working with them and the customer for LA-RICS.
We continue to stay closely engaged with them.
Mark Hacker is our lead General Counsel and one of the key operating executive interface points into the FirstNet group.
And I will have Mark maybe make a little additional commentary on where we are as well.
So as Greg indicated I think they continue to move down a path from their original plans to deploy this nationwide network.
Their current announced intent is to release additional RFPs towards the end of the year which would say the response would move into next year so it would probably be late next year later in the next year for real activities to take place.
I will let FirstNet speak to the timing but that’s just extrapolating from their announced RFPs a response and evaluation from those RFPs and then the direction they would need from that point.
So we are looking at more of a ‘16 timeframe for when we really start to see the ramp in that business? Again I think when we think of the LTE we have talked about both FirstNet but also internationally.
So we have talked about the real ramp being in the latter part of next year and into ‘16 I think FirstNet will fall into that same equation.
Okay thank you.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
I just want to remind everyone that details outlining the highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our website.
An audio replay together with a copy of today’s slides will also be available on the site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
As mentioned at the outset during this call we made a number of forward-looking statements.
Within the meaning of applicable federal securities laws such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to comments and answers relating to the following topics: long-term growth and profitability of government sale of our Enterprise business including timing and return of proceeds cost reductions and their impact outlook relating to sales EPS operating margins OpEx and gross margin amount of other income and expense amount of quarterly interest expense future tax rates share repurchases and dividends time and impact of new product solutions services introductions including public safety LTE timings of orders and contracts and impact on future revenue.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties MSI actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences can be found in the morning’s press release on Pages 10 through 21 on Item 1-A of our 2013 Annual Report Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings.
Thanks.
And we will be looking forward to speaking with you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
A replay of this will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions' Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
I would like to welcome you to our conference call to discuss our financial and operating results for the fiscal 2014 second quarter.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations; and Bob Schassler Executive Vice President Global Solutions and Services.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark and Bob will join for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
We have posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference which we encourage you to review.
I would also like to remind everyone that as a result of the divestiture of our Enterprise business announced on April 15 2014 the Enterprise business other than iDEN is reflected as discontinued operations for both the current quarter and prior periods.
All financials cited reflect the company's remaining business with its new reporting segments Product and Services.
The majority of iDEN results are reflected in the Services segment.
In addition to the financial results summarized in the press release at the end of this call you can find additional information including full year information in our Form 10-Q which will be filed later today.
I would also remind you that we posted historical results for new MSI last week which are available on our website.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations of Motorola Solutions and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Greg.
Good morning and thanks Shep.
Thanks for joining us on our call today.
As I think about the business and reflect on the quarter there are 3 key themes that I'd like to cover.
First although down for the quarter sales performance was in line with our expectations.
We continue to see soft demand in North America state and local government which we believe is largely a result of the narrowband impact from prior years.
Despite this market pause we do expect strong second half sales given our improved pipeline and visibility of customer engagements that Mark will make comments on later in the call.
Second we're making excellent progress on our cost reduction target of $200 million plus and today we're increasing that target to approximately $300 million by the end of 2015.
There's no better time than now to transform this company into a more nimble and flexible organization that can move faster and more efficiently to deliver the right results for our customers and partners and shareholders.
This is not just about cutting costs.
It's also about removing complexity and it's also about redeploying some of the savings to make targeted investments and initiatives that will yield future growth.
And finally we remain focused and committed to closing our recently announced sale of the Enterprise business.
Our teams continue to make progress on a number of work streams to position that business for a smooth and seamless transition.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on Q2 results and our outlook and then we'll return to provide additional thoughts and color on the quarter.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning.
We reported revenue for the second quarter of 2014 of $1.4 billion a decrease of 7% from last year.
GAAP operating earnings were $138 million or 9.9% of sales.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $201 million or 14.4% of sales and operating cash flow was $118 million an improvement of $140 million over the prior year quarter.
On a GAAP basis earnings from continuing operations were $0.30 per share compared to $0.81 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.47 per share compared to $0.94 in the year-ago quarter.
That $0.47 difference was driven by the benefit from the formation of our international holding company in 2013.
For the remainder of this call we will reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Product sales in the quarter were $887 million a decrease of 10% from the prior year.
The biggest driver of the Q2 revenue decline was lower state and local sales in our North America region which declined double digits year-over-year.
Recall that state and local sales grew on average at double-digit rates over the prior 3-year period which we believe is largely a reflection of the impact from narrowbanding activity over the past several years.
Europe and Africa as well as Latin America grew double digits with solid performance across most product lines.
Asia Pacific turned in sales that were approximately $22 million lower year-on-year primarily due to declines in Australia and China.
Operating income in the Products segment was $133 million down approximately $21 million to 15% of revenue driven primarily by the impact of lower sales.
Turning to our Services segment.
Services saw sales -- Services sales in Q2 were $506 million a decrease of 1% from the prior year.
This segment posted growth of 2% for the quarter when normalizing for iDEN.
Approximately 2/3 of iDEN sales are in the Services segment.
We saw solid single-digit growth in both Managed Services and Integration services for the quarter.
When excluding iDEN all regions posted growth in Services with the exception of Asia Pacific Middle East which was down slightly.
Operating income in the Services segment was $68 million down approximately $26 million to 13.4% of revenue driven primarily by lower iDEN sales.
In addition timing around certain of our largest long-term multiyear services projects unfavorably impacted gross margin by approximately $20 million in the quarter versus a favorable impact in the year-ago quarter.
We expect that we will continue to see Services gross margin average in the mid-30s which is generally consistent with past performance.
Total MSI operating expenses from continuing operations were $462 million down $49 million from the year-ago quarter driven by cost reduction initiatives during the second half of '13 as well as additional actions taken in the first half of this year.
Another contributing factor to lower OpEx was lower incentive pay compensation expense during the quarter.
Overall we are down approximately $75 million in OpEx when comparing the first half of '14 with the same period in 2013.
We spoke with you last quarter regarding our plans to sharpen our focus on cost reduction and reduced operating expenses by $200 million over 18 to 24 months inclusive of $100 million this year.
As Greg just mentioned we are now expanding and accelerating those efforts to achieve approximately $300 million of cost savings by the end of next year.
We now expect that overall 2014 OpEx will be down nearly $150 million due primarily to lower incentive pay.
This $300 million comes off the baseline of approximately $2 billion of OpEx for 2013 moving us to approximately $1.7 billion for 2015.
I'm encouraged by the work to date as we take a clean sheet approach to our structure eliminating nonvalue-added work and simplifying processes across all aspects of the business including G&amp;A and R&amp;D and sales and marketing.
Some examples of areas where we've made progress during this past quarter includes streamlining G&amp;A functions; workforce rebalancing primarily in the engineering function; workforce reductions including the Vice President level; and continued site consolidation across all regions.
We will continue to keep you updated with respect to our progress and costs as we move through the year.
Shifting to other income and expense.
This line item was a net expense of $40 million compared to a net expense of $35 million in the year-ago quarter.
Interest expense was $29 million and we incurred losses of another $4 million related to our investment portfolio during the quarter.
We expect this line item to be comparable to this quarter for Q3 and Q4 primarily driven by quarterly interest expense.
With respect to taxes.
Our effective tax rate was 25% for the quarter driven by benefits associated with the tax reserve and undistributed foreign earnings.
We expect our Q3 and Q4 effective tax rate to be approximately 33%.
We still expect our cash tax rate to be in the range of 10% to 15% for the full year 2014 and a cash tax rate of approximately 15% through 2019.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash generated by operating activities in the second quarter was $118 million a $140 million improvement from the prior year primarily from improved collections and other improvement in certain working capital accounts.
For the year we expect operating cash flow from continuing operations of approximately $550 million.
This outlook reflects the Enterprise transaction increased restructuring costs along with onetime items and our current outlook.
We ended Q2 with $2.9 billion in total cash and $2.5 billion in debt.
With respect to capital return in Q2 we repurchased $416 million or approximately 6.2 million shares at an average price of $66.96 per share.
Subsequent to quarter end we also have increased our quarterly cash dividend by 10% from $0.31 to $0.34 per share.
We have approximately $1.3 billion remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
Since the program's inception in the third quarter of 2011 we've reduced the net share count by 27% at an average price of $51.11 per share.
I'd now like to take a -- make a few comments on our Enterprise business which is reflected in discontinuing operations.
Enterprise revenues were $560 million for the quarter a decline of $50 million over the prior year.
The sales decline reflects some supply chain and IT execution issues related to transitioning business processes.
Additionally we saw weaker demand in Asia and the former Psion business.
Excluding Psion Europe and Africa and Latin America both posted growth in the quarter while North America was down slightly.
The company believes the supply chain modifications implemented in Q2 will benefit the business as it transitions to Zebra.
Year-over-year backlog is up and in July order activity has been robust including several Android wins.
Now turning to our outlook.
We expect sales for Q3 to decline 7% to 9%.
We expect non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $0.35 and $0.41.
As a reminder Q3 2013 included a $0.35 benefit from the formation of our international holding company.
For the full year we continue to expect sales to decline low- to mid-single digits excluding the decline in iDEN.
I'll now turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
Now I'd like to provide some additional color on our outlook and the Q2 results for the Product and Services segments.
Despite the expected revenue decline in North America this quarter our Products segment grew double digits in Europe and Africa and Latin America and our Services segment grew modestly on a worldwide basis when excluding iDEN.
Moving forward the North America market is expected to recover in the second half of this year.
Drilling deeper into our Products segment our ASTRO P25 products performed as expected and are well positioned for the future given the breadth and depth of our portfolio.
Some key Q2 ASTRO wins include multiple North America state and local wins of over $10 million each; multimillion dollar contracts with the U.S.
Armed Forces; 2 select Asia Pac first-responder agencies totaling $15 million; and a notable $23 million contract in Latin America with the Ecuador Minister of Interior.
We also had success beyond Public Safety with key wins in expanded verticals including energy petrochem and education.
Our TETRA product line continued its growth this quarter and built on its solid foundation with key wins around the world.
These include a major government system in Europe for over $17 million a $6 million system with a Middle East railroad and a $15 million order in Asia.
These awards include Public Safety as well as other verticals in oil and gas transportation and others which follow on from our launch of a higher tier portfolio of TETRA radios at the end of 2013 that are proving popular with a diverse range of customers.
Our recent professional and commercial radio or PCR wins continue to span multiple sectors including U.S.
automotive manufacturers airlines education and industrials.
We continue to innovate across our PCR portfolio having just launched the new C Series commercial digital radios in China.
And finally our Public Safety LTE leadership continues in the marketplace with customer activities increasing around the world driven by the breadth of our Products and Services portfolio.
Our international engagement continues to grow and our progress in the U.S.
with LA-RICS continues as we're proceeding with the first phase of the LA-RICS project worth approximately $50 million in revenue in the second half of this year.
On the Products side we announced the enhancement of our existing handset portfolio with the ruggedized LEX 755 mission-critical handheld for international customers and the VML 750 vehicular modem for U.S.
customers as we continue to invest in the Public Safety LTE market.
Turning to Services.
Our Services segment is healthy with significant contract wins around the globe and across our portfolio.
We continue to see positive trends toward our lifecycle management and support offerings.
In Q2 these included maintenance in lifecycle services contracts for $19 million with Montgomery County Maryland and a $19 million software upgrade with Butler County Ohio.
Internationally we are in several multimillion dollar countrywide services agreements in Europe and Africa including the Netherlands' MOI while also winning several large contracts in APME covering a railway and a 5-year network management contract with Queensland Gas for over $8 million.
We also have achieved some notable execution milestones in Q2 including the final acceptance of the $115 million 48-site P25 Phase 2 TDMA communication system serving 15 000 first responders for the city of Houston public safety communications network.
Additionally we and our local partner Telstra achieved commercial acceptance for the upcoming G20 finance summit in September and the G20 Leaders Summit in November.
This is the first major milestone of this multistage P25 project.
Another area of focus is our smart public safety solutions where our Services offerings are leading the market with targeted solutions such as our newly-announced Intelligent Data Portal.
This innovative solution is network-agnostic working across LMR technologies and/or LTE networks to provide our customers with technology that is second nature enabling them to focus on the job at hand.
This solution is a software subscription model similar to a mobile app store enabling our customers to access many types of applications and tailored services very specific to their needs in the field.
We will continue to drive customer-focused services to meet and exceed the evolving needs of public safety.
Now having said all that let me close with a few final thoughts on the business.
First overall market demand in North America was down in the first half but we do expect it to show improvement for the second half of the year.
Second we're pleased with the launch of our stand-alone Services segment and the Services business represents approximately 1/3 of our overall sales and is gaining traction.
You will see us continue to emphasize this business as we drive initiatives around managed and lifecycle services as well as services related to public safety LTE.
And finally our team is fully committed to simplification and growth.
We're focused on execution cash generation earnings growth improving our culture and closing the Enterprise transaction with Zebra.
We're making good progress on the path to approximately $300 million in cost reductions as we take a clean sheet of paper approach to simplifying our processes and organization and our team has several initiatives underway that we believe will drive future growth.
I'll now turn it over to Shep and then we'll start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator could you please remind our callers on the line how they can ask a question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Tavis McCourt of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First one is a clarification on the $1.7 billion of operating cost level.
Is that a full year 2015 number or an estimate of where you'll exit 2015? And then secondly obviously you guys must be expecting a much better trend in Q4 this year.
And aside from the $50 million revenue rec on LA-RICS what else in terms of large deals should we be thinking about in terms of driving that? Okay.
Tavis I'll take -- this is Gino.
I'll take the first part of the question.
The $1.7 billion in OpEx for 2015 is the full year OpEx for 2015 not the exiting run rate.
Tavis I'll talk about Q4.
This is Mark.
Really the Q4 and second half in Q4 story is exactly the same that we talked about on the Q1 earnings call.
We knew when we provided second quarter guidance that we had to have a strong second half.
We also talked about -- staged backlog that was going to require new orders to come into fruition throughout Q3 and the early part of Q4.
We are in that same position.
In fact we talked about the pipeline being over $1 billion stronger in the second half than the first half.
That pipeline has actually improved since our last earnings call.
Visibility and the strength of that pipeline continues to improve.
As you know second quarter was slightly better than our expectations.
And as we go into third quarter we also believe that we will get additional orders that will build backlog as we enter into fourth quarter.
So I would remind you the other thing about kind of Q4.
At the surface the number that we're expecting for Q4 is very similar to last year.
And in fact we gave this kind of expectation last year and we executed on it.
Our visibility to the pipeline is actually better this year than last year.
We also have a couple of things working for us as we go into that.
The comparable for our Federal business as you know which was down $150 million last year is much better this year so we expect growth in Federal.
The iDEN decline will primarily be completed in the first 9 months so we won't see any of that in Q4.
The other thing is as we think about the overall business and what we've got to do from an orders perspective we can see our way clear to exactly what large customers we've got to execute on.
And as you mentioned projects like LA-RICS Libya some additional revenues for large projects that are also already in our backlog but not yet logged like State of Maryland will help build revenue in Q4.
So all in all we're still in the same position but actually with better visibility than we came in 3 months ago.
Our next question comes from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg I think in your prepared remarks you talked about the impact from the difficult comps relative to narrowbanding in the last few years.
And I think that's pretty well understood.
But I was curious if you also think that there is some pause or confusion ahead of LTE deployments which was a factor that one of your competitors cited.
And then just from a recordkeeping perspective if you can update us on what iDEN revenues were in the quarter and your expectations for next quarter for iDEN.
Well on iDEN I know that the reduction in iDEN Simona in Q3 is about $25 million in Q3.
Second is we do not see a chilling effect of LTE chilling LMR purchases.
We do not see that.
I recognize that there are some that believe that's the case.
We have not seen any material evidence of that at all.
We remain on the perspective that the down revenue in the first 9 months of this year is more the overhang of narrowbanding and to some degree the shutdown of the iDEN network and Sprint.
And in terms of the iDEN decline in the first half of the year...
The iDEN decline in Q2 specifically was $18 million compared to the $25 million that you stated for Q3.
Our next question comes from Ehud Gelblum of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all if I'm doing the math right on your top line guidance for next quarter at the midpoint I get $13.95 which is roughly flat with this quarter.
But EPS guidance of $0.35 to $0.41 seems far below the $0.47 this quarter.
So I'm guessing the mechanics I'm guessing part of that is the tax rate.
I'm wondering if it's all the tax rate or if there are other things that we should be taking into account -- operating income and other things like that or is it pretty much all the tax rate? And then you said that Q2 obviously was better than you expected.
Can you give us a sense as to what was better? Was it just regionally was subscriber better subscriber units or infrastructure better? And do you think that any of that was pulled forward? Or was that an indication of strength returning in some of the regions? And then if you can just kind of quickly -- as a follow-up to the last question LA-RICS is a perfect example of a place that's actually spending a lot on LTE in L.A.
If you can give us a sense as to what L.A.
as a city or municipality is doing on the LMR side right now -- just as a show point as to what happens to LMR spending when LTE gets underway that would be great.
Ehud this is Gino.
I'll take the first part of the question.
It is primarily tax that's driving the difference.
Margin and OpEx fairly consistent quarter-over-quarter.
I will remind you that in OpEx last year in Q3 we had a year-to-date adjustment for incentive pay so it's approximately flat quarter-over-quarter up slightly actually in Q3 year-over-year.
But it's primarily driven by tax.
And Mark if...
Yes.
Ehud the second quarter performance as we said slightly better than what the original guidance was really driven by North America which was a good thing.
We had said that we needed to turn orders in North America.
That was really the case primarily infrastructure in services.
But we are exiting Q2 with about $40 million of aged backlog in the second half of Product which means we'll turn quicker.
So that was really the reference to a little bit stronger in Q2.
The other regions performed primarily as expected.
If you think about the other question that you asked around LA-RICS which is a wonderful example of what Greg said when we do not see a chilling effect of LTE.
LA-RICS as you know we just mentioned that we're in the midst of implementing their Public Safety LTE network of which approximately $50 million of revenue will be in the second half and a big continued ramp in next year to implement that full system.
At the same time we're also in the midst of implementing a brand new LMR contract.
So for the city of L.A.
L.A.
County all the independent cities they're in the midst of upgrading to a P25 mission-critical voice system as well.
So we're seeing that both here domestically and internationally where we had talked about implementing our LTE system.
They're also implementing a new voice system.
So we do not see them as being one or the other.
I think they're actually complementary around voice and data.
Research Division</strong> And when you gave guidance at the end of Q2 into the second -- end of Q1 into the second half of the year being stronger did you expect at the time Q3 to be flat and then Q4 to be as strong as you're looking at now? Or did you expect it to be a little more even between the 2 quarters? Yes.
I mean we actually -- and that was kind of the comment I had made.
We really are in the same place we were at that point of guidance.
We expected to be able to execute on Q2 which we did.
We knew that Q3 would still not be as strong as we expected and we had a huge ramp in Q4.
Obviously pulling in orders into Q3 so that we exit Q3 with additional backlog which we believe that we will will be important.
But we're really in the same position that we thought we were in at the end of Q1.
Our next question comes from Kulbinder Garcha of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> As we -- it's kind of made me for the outlook for the government order -- or with the old Government business the product and multiservices there as we get beyond the fourth quarter and look forward is there any reason that you see why we couldn't go back to at least long-term growth rates in that business based upon your order backlog or everything else? I take the point that there's been various issues this year in terms of comparisons narrowbanding pull forward of spend all those things.
I'm just trying to think as we go forward now you have the LTE opportunity you can go with both the easier compares.
Or is there a prolonged impact to anything else we should take into account on budgets? So it's a little bit tough to hear your question.
Kulbinder can you -- can I ask you to maybe speak up a little bit? Research Division</strong> Sorry yes.
So my question was that as we get beyond this period now going to Q4 and beyond my question is do you still stand by the government business or the core business if you like can grow in the mid-single digits? Are the drivers in place there potentially for 2015 and beyond? I'm trying to think -- there's been various things this year that have weighed upon and distracted from what was a fairly healthy growing business and narrowbanding and everything else.
Are all those kind of more or less behind us after Q3 do you think? So I think the answer is yes that we still stand behind this business -- this core business to grow low- to mid-single digits.
I think there are a number of things that will turn our way over time.
Obviously one is the year-over-year comps.
Second is greater revenue density and contribution from Public Safety LTE.
We mentioned $50 million of revenue in the second half of this year.
That will grow nicely into next year with contracts that are in-hand that we have to then turn and complete.
I think the narrowbanding will largely be behind us by the end of this year.
And I also think that the product portfolio some of the newer products.
And quite frankly the emphasis on Services with Bob Schassler here around lifecycle services managed services software maintenance agreements and some of the things that Moon is doing around geographic and vertical market expansion -- growth Kulbinder in areas beyond just Public Safety.
And we've seen some of that already that as we've moved to a pure-play company focused only on mission-critical communications investing in the channel redeploying and improving sales coverage in some international theaters emphasizing North America commercial markets like some of the other verticals of oil and gas manufacturing I think will pay off.
So we believe that this business can grow by low- to mid-single digits.
We have the product portfolio and the backlog position and the commitment around innovation to continue to distinguish ourselves going forward.
Our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So first of all an additional clarification on your cost cutting program.
So could you Greg tell me -- tell us what you -- what happened to those last 3 months that led you to decide to step up your ambition from $200 million to $300 million? What's the additional opportunities you saw? So we've launched a pretty comprehensive effort led by one of our executives Michael Annes that we call simplify and grow.
And as Gino referenced we're taking a clean sheet of paper look at the company and say we don't look at what Motorola was.
We look at what we need to be: sites footprint manufacturing R&amp;D shared services G&amp;A.
And as we dig into this Pierre further we see other savings that can accrue to us so that we can turn around and invest and grow the company more sustainably going forward.
With $75 million of savings already recorded in the first half through Q2 that's what caused us primarily to increase the $100 million target this year to approximately $150 million of this year.
Now I remind you that a chunk of that is incentive pay benefits.
But having said that we'll still go after incremental G&amp;A and other cost reductions worldwide that we think will be prudent and quite frankly strengthen our competitiveness.
So that's why we continue to dig deeper and see more efficiencies that are available to us and we're going to capitalize on those and then reinvest surgically so capital is allocated and deployed in a way that makes the most sense for the shareholder.
Our next question comes from Tim Long of BMO Capital.
Two questions if I could.
Greg maybe just drill down a little bit more on some of the other vertical opportunities.
Just curious as to what you think the timing of some of those investments and focus will be.
Are those type of revenue opportunities that we can see as meaningful in 2015? Or do you think it's got a bit longer tail than that? And then secondly maybe Gino a lot of good moves on the OpEx side there.
Could you talk a little bit about some maybe incremental gross margin opportunities going forward maybe both on the Product and Service side? That would be great.
On the other verticals Tim my commentary is really more around North America although there are some internationally as well.
I thought maybe Mark you can drill a little bit deeper into this -- some of the verticals that we've seen with Molloy and McNulty.
Yes.
So from an international basis we've always been much more diverse in the split between Public Safety and additional verticals.
In North America we've been primarily focused on the North America Government business.
One of the things we did with this new MSI and the divestiture of our Enterprise business was created a new go-to market team and a new focus within Jack Molloy's team in North America to really say how do we get after the other commercial customers here? We want to continue to leverage our government customers but we need to get broader in North America.
And we're seeing immediate success both in the automotive manufacturing -- we've had good success in several of those.
Energy.
If you think about petrochem we've had a couple of big wins there.
We think even as you think about the Fortune 500 that we primarily were calling on with our Enterprise sales team but yet has applicability to our Government or our Products portfolio for Remainco.
I think it's good to be a good opportunity for us to further expand into these other verticals as we go forward.
And Tim from a gross margin perspective it might be -- it's instructive to start a little bit and talk about Q2 gross margin.
So the Q2 gross margin was impacted primarily by Services.
And within Services there were 2 large items: one the decline in iDEN; and the second an unfavorable adjustment to a large project in Q2.
With respect to margins going forward we clearly see improvement in the second half.
And that's driven largely by revenue by a much larger second half and particularly the mix that we expect to see towards North America.
So that margin profile will improve.
Also it's important to note that ASPs are holding through this period.
So the gross margin contraction that we're seeing is really a mix to services and volume-related.
So we expect to see margin improvement in the second half as we mix back to a more normalized revenue structure as well as product offerings in services in general -- increases -- as we increase software features and as we increase the number of our customers that are under our software maintenance agreement.
Our next question comes from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One I wanted to see if you guys could talk about your backlog.
As it stands right now I think you said $40 million of aged backlog addition.
But what's the total backlog number exiting Q2? And then could you talk to us a little bit about how you expect backlog to continue through the second half of the year and how you might exit the year in terms of backlog? The other thing I wanted to see if you could talk a little bit about I just want to clarify an answer.
Maybe Greg I think that you had said to a previous question which was -- it sounded like you think you thought back in Q1 that consensus numbers in Q3 and Q4 were kind of mismodeled.
Is that correct? I mean do you think that the Street had numbers just too high for Q3 and not high enough for Q4? So could you just clarify that that's what you guys are saying? That if you looked at your internal model the Street was just mismodeling numbers on revenue and that's it.
Well let me take the last one first.
No I didn't make comments on the Street's models.
I think it was a question where Moon said a few minutes ago that he thought that we were -- to Ehud's question that Q3 and Q4 were generally in the second half from our perspective expected to where we thought it would be.
So product backlog was up to your earlier question.
Product backlog was up $42 million exiting Q2 and we expect to exit Q3 with product backlog to grow pretty substantially.
At the end of the day as Mark described this is about order visibility and converting those orders within Q3 and Q4.
But we -- clearly we would expect product backlog to increase exiting Q3.
Our next question comes from Andrew Spinola of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you put the second quarter Enterprise results in some context? Specifically how much of the decline the 8% decline was sort of related to onetime issues versus normalized revenue growth? And maybe even more specifically could you attribute the declines to some of the -- how it broke out between Asia Psion and supply chain? Okay.
This is Gino.
I'll take the first part of that question and maybe ask Mark to comment on the second part of it.
As far as the makeup of the $50 million year-over-year contraction it's approximately 50% related to execution supply chain and IT issues specific to business process improvements that we made in Q2.
And about half of it demand-related specifically in APME.
Also important as we noted that July is off to a good start with robust orders and several wins in Androids.
And Mark if you want to comment on the demand side.
Yes.
The -- from a demand perspective it was really demand in Asia.
And more specifically Andrew it was demand in China.
I would remind you that last year in China we actually had very strong double-digit growth in Enterprise so coming from that perspective.
This year though throughout the year we've seen a decline in China in the Enterprise space throughout.
Now with that said the good news is the rest of the regions continue to perform really as expected and we still anticipate growth for full year in all the other regions -- North America Latin America Europe and Africa.
And just one more note Andrew.
The improvements the changes in Q2 are behind us.
And they impacted Q2 and we don't expect them to recur.
LLC Research Division</strong> So no impact to Q3 from the change? No no.
Our final question comes from Keith Housum of Northcoast Research.
If I can just expand on Andrew a little bit.
The -- some of the weakness in Asia is -- do you think any of that pressure is coming from the threat from consumer devices? Or is that just from a macroeconomic development? So Keith from an Enterprise perspective I think it's really mostly macroeconomic environment.
Obviously the competitor base in Asia is a little bit different while we see our traditional competitors you see a lot more low-tier competitors as well.
And I think overall the macroeconomics are impacting almost all businesses in Asia.
When we think about our existing or the new Motorola Solutions I would say the Asia market has really been slower to recover or return to growth than we expected.
But it's primarily 2 issues: it's China and it's Australia this year.
And when you think about China what you just said from a if you will new business perspective it's really the localization pressures that we still have.
There's a new standard in China called PDT.
Fortunately for us we were admitted to the PDT alliance last month so we expect to successfully compete in that business as we go forward but we had been shut out prior to that.
In Australia it's a little different.
It's really around the economy the pressure FX-wise against the dollar as well as the declining minerals and energy market the mining industry which has been a boom the last few years.
In Australia our business is always over-indexed.
And this year we're down 25% and we're down almost 10% in China through the half.
Now the rest of Asia is actually up.
So again we're making good progress.
And in Australia in particular we also have several large projects that we expected to get earlier in the year that we expect now to receive orders for before the end of the year almost $200 million.
And that business then we'll exit as we go forward.
So Enterprise all in all is responding well throughout the world.
It's responding well in Asia.
China in particular has been the issue.
Got you.
And then just overall you -- it sounds like you have some optimism for growth for the year.
Can you speak to the backlog and where it stands now versus where it was I guess this time last year? So from our new MSI we were in the worst backlog position in the...
I think he's asking Enterprise.
Yes Enterprise I'm sorry.
Yes.
Enterprise backlog is up.
Product backlog specifically is up significantly.
I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I want to remind everyone the details outlining highlighted items our GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on our website.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on this site shortly after the conclusion of this call.
As mentioned at the outset during this call we have made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable Federal Securities Laws.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to our comments and answers relating to the following topics; growth and profitability of Product and Services segments including by region; sale of our Enterprise business including timely return of proceeds; cost reduction targets and their impact; outlook relating to operating cash flows sales EPS margins OpEx and backlog; the amount of other income and expense future tax rate share repurchases and dividends; the timing impact of new product solutions services introductions including Public Safety LTE.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Motorola Solutions' actual results could differ materially from those stated in these forward-looking statements.
Information about the factors that could cause and in some cases that cause such differences can be found in this morning's press release on Pages 10 through 21 and Item 1-A for 2013 or report on Form 10-K on Page 31 on Part 2 Item 1-A of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 29 2014 and in MSI's other SEC filings.
Thanks and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately 3 hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin.
Thanks and good morning.
I would like to welcome you to our call to discuss financial and operating results for the fiscal 2014 third quarter.
With me this morning are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President of Sales and Product Operations; and Bob Schassler Executive Vice President of Solutions and Services.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark and Bob will join for the Q&amp;A portion.
We have posted an earnings presentation and press release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference and we encourage you to review those.
I also want to remind everyone that as a result of the divestiture of our Enterprise business which was announced on April 15 2014 and closed on October 27 2014 the Enterprise business other than iDEN is reflected as discontinued operations for both the current quarter and prior periods.
All financials cited will reflect the company's remaining business with its reporting segments of Products and Services.
In addition to the financial results summarized in the press release and in this call you can find additional information including full year information in our Form 10-Q which will be filed later today.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation.
Forward-looking statements are any statements that are not historical facts.
These statements are based on the current expectations of the company and we can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this presentation.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep and good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We're encouraged by third quarter revenues and earnings and our business continues to show signs of improvement.
As I think about the quarter and beyond there are a few thoughts I would like to share.
First Q3 sales were better than expected as a result of strength in the Europe &amp; Africa region improvement in North America and faster conversion of a number of orders that were initially projected for Q4.
The environment in North America is beginning to improve as we delivered better-than-expected system sales saw more normalized Federal demand and drove an increase in backlog.
Customer engagements and order pipeline activity remain healthy and consistent with our earlier views for a strong second half of the year.
Second we continue to more aggressively take costs out of the business and remain fully on track to achieve our target of approximately $300 million plus in savings by the end of 2015.
We've reduced operating expenses by nearly $120 million through the first 3 quarters of this year compared to the same period in 2013.
And we now expect slightly more than $200 million in savings for the full year this year of 2014.
Our teams are taking action to reduce complexity and redundancy which will ultimately improve operating leverage.
Third I'm thrilled with the successful close of our Enterprise transaction which was done at an attractive valuation and puts us on the path of a singularly focused business in the attractive space of mission-critical communications and public safety.
Finally we remain acutely focused on growing this business and optimizing our capital structure.
As a result of our strong balance sheet and cash-generating capabilities today we announced the addition of $5 billion to our share repurchase authorization raising the total amount to $12 billion.
We believe this is an important action that underscores our confidence in the fundamentals of our business and our ability to grow EBITDA and free cash flow over the long term and demonstrates our ongoing commitment to creating value for our shareholders through thoughtful and disciplined capital return.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on Q3 results and our outlook and then we'll return to provide additional thoughts and color on the quarter.
Thank you Greg.
Q3 2014 revenue was $1.4 billion a decrease of 5% from last year.
GAAP operating earnings were $207 million or 14% of sales.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $259 million or 18% of sales.
Operating cash flow was a use of $115 million driven by $397 million of U.S.
pension contributions during the quarter related to our pension de-risking actions announced in September.
On a GAAP basis earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.27 compared to $0.98 per share in the third quarter of 2013.
Non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations were $0.62 per share compared to $1.08 in the year-ago quarter which included a $0.35 benefit from the formation of our international holding company in 2013.
Accelerated cost reductions and higher sales both drove favorable EPS relative to our outlook.
For the remainder of this call we will reference non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise noted.
Q3 Products sales were $921 million down 8% versus the prior year driven primarily by lower device sales.
Despite this decline our North America business again improved sequentially.
In addition our PCR business grew in North America and Europe &amp; Africa as Europe &amp; Africa posted another strong quarter.
Systems revenue was down slightly versus the year-ago quarter although revenue was up both in North America and Europe &amp; Africa.
Finally product backlog was up sequentially led by North America.
And coupled with a healthy pipeline we believe the North American market is beginning to recover.
Products segment operating income was $175 million or 19% of sales down from $204 million or 20% of sales in Q3 2013.
The decline in operating income was a function of lower sales offset by cost reductions.
Turning to Services.
When normalizing for iDEN Services grew at 2% for the quarter.
Services sales in Q3 were $515 million a decrease of less than 1% from the prior year.
Systems integration and lifecycle services were flat while Managed Services was up double digits and Smart Public Safety grew single digits versus the prior year quarter.
Integration services was up slightly on large projects such as TETRA deals in Europe and the North America LA-RICS LTE deployment.
Lifecycle support services held steady with significant contributions from system maintenance contracts and software upgrade agreements.
Managed Services was up double digits with strong growth across all region while our Smart Public Safety business is being driven by more command and control revenue from early market traction.
We are pleased with the performance and competitive position of these new services and look for continued growth.
Operating income in the Services segment was $84 million down approximately $8 million to 16.3% of revenue driven primarily by lower iDEN sales.
Services gross margin was in the mid-30s generally consistent with past performance and up from Q2.
Total company operating expenses from continuing operations were $434 million down $43 million or 9% from the year-ago quarter driven by continued cost-reduction activities.
We now expect 2014 OpEx to be down more than $200 million versus the prior year.
Our year-to-date operating expenses are down $120 million the key drivers of which include staff reductions lower 2014 incentives and organizational efficiencies across all aspects of our business.
Approximately 1/3 of the savings has been in R&amp;D with the balance of savings in SG&amp;A.
Examples of actions we have driven include consolidation of testing processes and lab sites leveraging development teams and support cost and eliminating staff or moving work to lower-cost location.
In selling and marketing we have simplified the organizational structure and reduced sales support cost by lowering our overall nonquota-carrying employee base.
In G&amp;A we've simplified our management structure across spans and layers while increasing the use of centralized services.
And while we're relatively pleased with our progress on cost there is more work to do.
Shifting to other income and expense.
This line item was a net expense of $29 million compared to a net gain of $5 million in the year-ago quarter.
We expect this line item to be approximately $45 million per quarter primarily driven by interest expense.
With respect to taxes our Q3 effective rate was 33% and we expect our Q4 effective tax rate to be the same.
We still expect our cash tax rate to be in the range of 10% to 15% for full year 2014 and a cash tax rate of approximately 15% through 2019.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operating activities in the third quarter was a net usage of $115 million which includes a $397 million contribution related to the U.S.
pension transaction announced in September.
For the year we expect operating cash flow from continuing operations to be a net use of approximately $250 million.
This includes the incremental funding of our U.S.
plan of which $650 million remains to be funded in Q4.
Excluding these discretionary pension contributions related to the pension de-risking transaction the annual operating cash flow would be approximately $550 million as previously guided.
Let me also remind you that our actions taken on pension de-risking will require no U.S.
cash contributions for the next 5 to 6 years.
Let me also reiterate our conviction to retain our investment-grade rating as we move forward with returning the proceeds in a timely manner.
We ended Q3 with $2.8 billion in total cash and $3.4 billion in debt.
In Q3 we repurchased $650 million of stock or approximately 10.4 million shares at an average price of $62.63 per share.
Since the program's inception in the third quarter of 2011 we've reduced our net share count by 30% at an average price of $52.08 a share.
In addition we paid $78 million in dividends during the quarter.
In discontinued operations Q3 revenues for Enterprise grew 2% year-over-year to $605 million in the quarter.
We saw solid growth in both North America and Europe throughout most of the portfolio.
Now turning to our outlook.
We expect Q4 sales to decline by 1% to 3%.
This outlook is consistent with our prior full year view of a low to mid-single-digit sales decline excluding iDEN.
We expect non-GAAP operating earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $1.13 and $1.19 per share in Q4.
As a reminder Q4 2013 included a $0.42 benefit from the formation of our international holding company.
I'll now turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
Now I would like to provide some additional color on our outlook and the Q3 results.
From a regional perspective the North America market is improving consistent with our prior outlook for the second half of 2014.
Another quarter of sequential sales improvement and growing backlog are the foundation for the North America recovery as recent headwinds pressuring the North America market continue to fade.
Europe &amp; Africa posted another strong quarter marking its eighth consecutive quarter of growth for this region.
Growth was robust across devices systems and services and across most countries.
Middle East was flat for the quarter but up year-to-date and we believe our prospects continue to improve there moving forward.
Asia Pac performance was lower than expected but we expect to see positive results next year due to improved backlog strong pipeline and ongoing customer engagement.
Looking at Products -- looking at our Products segment.
We improved sequentially in North America and had another solid performance in Europe and Africa.
From a product perspective we shipped the APX 7000L the industry's first converged P25 LTE device with the security of LMR mission-critical voice and the benefits of LTE data speeds.
We launched the LEX L10 a mission-critical LTE handheld device that intelligently prioritizes and displays only the most critical information to first responders based on current status and activity.
The LEX L10 supports both Public Safety LTE private networks and commercial LTE networks.
We're providing a solution to an ASTRO P25 customer to upgrade their radio system and perform interconnection with commercial smartphones.
This solution uses the wave technology from our Twisted Pair acquisition and will be our largest implementation to date for connecting P25 radios with broadband devices.
Key strategic system awards around the world include 5 North America P25 wins with state and local customers worth over $10 million each a $21 million contract with the Ministry of Defense in Africa $10 million of Armed Forces solutions in both Latin America and Asia Pacific/Middle East several multimillion dollar TETRA awards with national police in both Europe and Africa and Asia Pacific a national defense subscriber contract in Europe and a $5 million nationwide subscriber order.
Turning to our Services segment.
Our Services segment turned in another quarter of growth when excluding iDEN.
Our increased focus in Services positions us well for the future as communications networks become increasingly complex software based and feature rich.
This complexity and increased functionality are enabling the next phase of Services growth that includes Lifecycle Management solutions Managed Services and Smart Public Safety solutions.
Smart Public Safety solutions includes command and control Intelligence-Led Policing Public Safety applications and Public Safety LTE services.
Q3 brought several notable Services wins including a $16 million contract for Loudoun County Virginia to intelligently connect and manage the myriad of systems and subsystems for enhanced public safety functionality; an $8 million computer-aided dispatch consoles and subscriber services migration over 5 years in Spartanburg County South Carolina.
An emerging growth area in which we are making progress includes our Smart Public Safety solutions and we earned a contract with Elgin Illinois for the implementation of the real-time intelligence console.
This is a key component to our Real-Time Crime Center solution that will integrate video and other solutions with an agency's existing system including dispatch platforms to help identify and distribute information to first responders.
By sharing the right information at the right time agencies can shorten response time proactively deploy resources and increase situational awareness.
So let me close with a few thoughts.
First the business is improving anchored by the continued turnaround in North America.
Second we are aggressively moving to lower our cost structure and resize this company to be more competitive over time.
Third with the Enterprise sale we are uniquely positioned to capitalize on our simplified structure and growing our business.
And finally by doing these things and executing on these priorities of growth operational excellence and capital return we will be well positioned for the long term and will ultimately drive shareholder value.
I'll now turn it back over to Shep.
Thanks Greg.
[Operator Instructions] Operator would you please remind our callers on the line on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You announced a deal I think a couple of days ago with Telstra for enabling public safety applications on their LTE network.
Can you just comment on how common you think this type of implementation might be as opposed to the more traditional public safety network? And also just curious if you saw a similar set of competitors in that deal as your traditional competitors.
Simona this is Bob Schassler.
We see those types of customers are where we don't have private broadband spectrum around the world like in Europe and in Australia.
And we really see the competition being very similar to what we're doing in the private business as well in the private LTE business.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And is the economics from an MSI perspective pretty similar to the dedicated public safety network in terms of the devices except that you're missing the infrastructure piece? Is that how we should think about it? Yes they'll be very very similar.
The operating margins for both models are very very similar.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just a quick follow-up for Gino.
On the $5 billion repurchase authorization how should we think about the pace of that into next quarter and next year? Simona the pacing I think it's in -- a useful reference point for pacing is our Q3 buyback of 615 -- $650 million that -- as I said that would be a useful reference point at this time on pacing and what our expectation is moving forward.
And we'll go next to Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wondered first if you could just let us know what the iDEN headwind or revenues was in the quarter and an update on kind of full year expectations on that product line.
And then secondly Greg the -- it sounds like the systems business was flat to slightly up but the devices business was down 8%.
And I'm trying to like -- what are the dynamics in the market that lead to a bifurcation like that? From an iDEN perspective I believe -- Gino will get the exact quarterly number.
$25 million for Q3? Okay it's down $25 million in Q3.
Remember we guided you to being down $100 million -- approximately $100 million for this year.
iDEN continues to tail off.
From a 2015 perspective we're planning on iDEN being down approximately $50 million.
In terms of devices maybe I'll turn it over to Mark Moon.
I'm sorry Tavis would you give me that question one more time? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes no problem Mark.
So I think in the prepared script Greg mentioned that the systems business was flat to up and this might be a North American comment but devices sales were down 8%.
And I'm wondering what are the dynamics in the market that lead to a bifurcation between the growth rates in systems and devices? Yes Tavis I think what we still see is some of the remnants of narrowbanding which we've talked about a lot.
We do think through the end of this year the bulk of the narrowbanding pressure will be behind us.
There will be some trickle into next year but as you think back to narrowbanding we had a big acceleration in '12 and really through the first half of '13 which we believe accelerated about 2 years of business.
So we've seen devices if you will that particular growth drop off.
Now with that being said as we look at the funnel we look at the pipeline even as we look at some of the activities in Q4 and beyond we do think devices will come back.
So not really unexpected for the quarter and quite honestly the fact that we're still driving good strong infrastructure sales we feel positive about that.
And we'll go next to Tim Long with BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions if I could.
First obviously you guys have made really good progress on the OpEx front.
Could you talk a little bit about gross margin? Looks like it's been down through the first part of this year a few years in a row here.
So maybe if you could just talk about opportunities kind of what's dragging it down and opportunities to recapture some gross margin.
And then Greg if you could just touch a little bit more on the Federal.
You said it was pretty strong in the quarter.
Do you think there's been any change there like you've seen in overall North America? What do you think about the outlook for Federal for the next few quarters here? So Federal I'll take that one first.
As you may remember last year was pretty dramatic with about $150 million decline in the second half of last year.
We think it's normalized.
In fact in Q3 Federal was up 13%.
And in Q4 Tim we expect it to be up again in double digits.
So we're pleased with the stabilization and the return to growth for Federal.
Tim with respect -- this is Gino.
With respect to gross margin the gross margin decline the gross margin actually is up quarter-over-quarter in line with our expectation as a result of a little bit favorable mix.
And we will continue to see that trend into Q4.
Favorable mix and better sales will yield better gross margin.
And I think going forward as narrowbanding -- the bulk of narrowbanding is behind us and we have growth in the device business we'll see margin stabilizing.
And we'll go next to Ehud Gelblum with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First just a clarification on a prior question about iDEN.
Just wanted to make sure I understood correctly.
Greg I think you said that iDEN this quarter was down $25 million year-over-year and that was totally in line with your guidance.
On the last conference call you'd said you thought iDEN would be down $100 million this year.
Was your comment that it would be down $50 million was that a this year comment or a next year comment? So did I...
You're right on the $25 million in Q3 decline.
You're right on the $100 million to decline full year 2014.
And my $50 million decline for iDEN was a 2015 comment.
Just because we have great visibility on that because it's contractual so I wanted to just let you know that to guide you accordingly.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
I wasn't sure I heard you right so that helps out a lot.
A question on Federal and then a question on Europe &amp; Africa.
Following up on the Federal comment the double-digit increases you had now in Q3 and then expect again in Q4 does that bring you back to the same level that you were doing in Federal for -- I assume let's use I guess 2012 as a baseline? Or does that put us still short of it? Or does it -- and therefore do you expect the levels -- was 2012 basically a peak level? Or is that a level that we're going to go through as we get into 2015? Just trying to get a sense on a growth rate level where that puts us vis-à-vis kind of where we were before.
And then Europe &amp; Africa as you mentioned have been strong I think for 8 straight quarters good growth there.
Can you just go over some of the drivers there? And I assume it's all TETRA but what are the competitive dynamics going on there? Is there anything like a regulatory issue like narrowbanding that maybe we could point to that can explain some of that growth and a sense as to how sustainable it is and how far we should be able to model that going forward? Or could there be potential ups and downs and cyclicality in that similar to what happened in North America? On the Federal business up 13% in Q3.
I expected double-digit increase in Q4.
Ehud when you model that out it's flat to slightly up with last year's Fed volume but still substantially short of the 2012 year that you referenced.
So we view that as opportunity to try to grow going forward.
Research Division</strong> How much below the 2012 level are we? Probably loosely 25% or 30%.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that's a reasonable level to get back to the 2012 number? Or was that a peak? No we'll see.
We'll see.
We'll model the business and see what comes -- it all depends on a whole host of things in terms of the politics and the continuing resolution and budgets at the Federal level.
But we do think that we can grow from the base performance of this year into next year but we'll guide you accordingly as to the specifics and how it would dimensionalize in '15 and beyond.
Ehud as far as Europe &amp; Africa we have had continued very strong success; in fact 8 consecutive quarters as you mentioned but really 3 years of very solid growth.
It's really driven across the board.
I mean our performance has been strong.
When -- even when you look at Western Europe we're actually gaining share across the board.
And our PCR business was very strong in Q3.
Our TETRA business has been very strong.
And we've been fortunate to have a number of large projects within the region that has really boosted revenues.
We talked a lot about Norway being one of the largest projects we've ever had.
So Bob and his team have been in the middle of implementation which has drove a lot of revenues over the last 2 years.
We've also had a couple of other very large projects in Northern Africa as well as other spots.
So I think the comparable as we go into next year will be tough for sure because the bleed-off of the Norway implementation in particular will cause some pressure.
But that business the reason I described it the way I did has been solid across the base.
So while I don't think we'll see the high-growth rates which we've had going forward I do think that business will return back to normalization as we move into the next year and beyond.
And we'll go next to Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions from me.
First of all I guess for Greg in terms of with the order book and the inflection of revenues you are now seeing with narrowbanding behind you is it fair to say that we should be heading back towards your long-term revenue growth rate in Government in 2015? Do you feel comfortable with that statement? Or is there still things shrouding the visibility? That's my first question.
The second one is for Gino.
On the free cash flow side what is the pro forma free cash flow of MSI would you say just given the pension change given the Government the working capital dynamics? That's one thing I'm kind of struggling with a little bit.
Kulbinder from a backlog standpoint Product backlog was up $30 million primarily driven by North America Services.
Long-term multiyear contract for Services was down $90 million pretty much as a result of FX.
I think that on the positive side North America backlog was up $120 million: $60 million in Products $60 million in Services.
And also we had a very very good start in October in terms of backlog and order volume around Federal orders that didn't close in September but came in in October and some very notable state and local deals as well.
And with respect to cash flow Kulbinder and we'll guide obviously when we guide 2015 in pro forma and beyond.
But I think a reference point that may be useful is our expectation for 2015 would be to from an operating cash flow perspective be comparable to our 2013 operating cash flow as MSI so effectively replacing the cash flow from the Enterprise transaction.
And Kulbinder the answer is yes to your question of we still believe that the business longer term is a low to mid-single-digit business that over time we will return to as we come back out of the trough with narrowbanding.
And we'll go next to Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First could you give me a bit more color on your very impressive cost-cutting project? Wherein the question I have is how is that happening in your -- on the field in your sales force? In -- I mean your strength in the market is very much related to your ability to be very close to your customers.
So if you reduce your cost base how do you make sure you don't lower the level of service you're able to provide to your clients? And then I have a quick follow-up on Public Safety LTE.
Things have moved very positively this quarter on a couple of deals.
Should we expect Public Safety LTE to accelerate in 2015? And if that's the case any impacts we should think of in terms of your gross outlook for 2015 and also your gross margin impact potential in 2015? Okay Pierre this is Gino.
I'll take the cost-reduction question first.
So clearly ahead of schedule with more than $200 million as Greg described year-over-year reduction in 2014 and $43 million in Q3.
Year-to-date $120 million and I think it's instructive to look at the composition of that.
As you know we talked about it in prior calls our effort around simplifying the company.
So the exercise is not an exercise in cost reduction per se but it's an exercise that gets at trying to reduce the complexity that was inherent in the larger Motorola organization.
So of the $120 million 1/3 is in R&amp;D.
And you shouldn't read that as necessarily a reduction in R&amp;D a project R&amp;D.
It's the -- a reduction in structure management structure and structure across R&amp;D.
The rest is SG&amp;A and it's really a combination of headcount site consolidation simplifying org structure and centralizing some shared services.
Yes and as we go about these reductions Pierre it's also important to note that we have prioritized nonquota-carrying salespeople.
So it's more of the shared infrastructure around SG&amp;A in particular that Mark and Bob have done a very good job in terms of prioritizing those reduction.
As it relates to Public Safety LTE we're expecting approximately $50 million of revenue this year.
And as we look into 2015 based on current contracts we would expect that to more than double next year.
So as we kind of dimensionalize 2015 and obviously we're not going to guide to it we expect to end Q4 with higher total backlog higher product backlog higher backlog scheduled to ship in 2015.
I mentioned the $50 million decline in iDEN.
When we think about Europe &amp; Africa we anticipate some contraction in '15 with macro headwinds after higher-than-normal growth for 3 consecutive years largely driven by some of the large projects Moon just referenced like Norway.
We expect Latin America and APME to grow.
And we do expect some modest growth in North America as well with the bulk of narrowbanding largely behind us and basically effectively complete by midyear.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe if I can a quick follow-up on your churn business could you take us through how it has been evolving across the last couple of quarters? What business Pierre again? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Churn business.
So what didn't come from your backlog in the last couple of quarters? Quick turn.
The quick turn.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Sorry the turn business.
So Pierre this is Mark.
So as we talked about coming into the year we knew all year that we were coming in backload-light.
We would have to have strong what we call quick turn or as you just said churn business which means we get the order book it ship it in the current quarter.
That has continued to be strong throughout and really on schedule.
We always knew that the year was going to be back-end loaded.
The second half still looks the same.
It's what we told you on the last call.
We were able to accelerate some of that business.
I think Greg mentioned earlier we've been relentlessly focused on getting new orders and converting those orders to revenue.
We were able to convert $40 million more than we originally expected of Q4 orders into Q3.
And the churn business for Q4 which will again be a big part of our number we continue to remain with good visibility and pipeline on exactly what we've got to go do to commit our overall guidance for the second half and now for Q4.
And we'll go next to Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
I wanted to just check on the backlog numbers the changes in backlog.
You said the Services backlog was mainly affected by FX.
Can you give us any idea what the backlog change would be in constant FX in the quarter? And then also I wanted to go back to the question about gross margin and just ask you guys could you foresee the back end of 2015 showing up with a 50% or better gross margin? Okay Rod this is Gino.
On the -- on backlog as Greg mentioned although sequentially backlog is down $60 million Product backlog is up $30 million driven by North America.
The multiyear Services backlog down $90 million is essentially all related to FX and the aging of those multiyear contracts in future period based on current FX.
Research Division</strong> Are you saying then that Services backlog would have been flat in constant FX? Yes.
And North America backlog -- and I think Greg mentioned that North America backlog is up $120 million sequentially $60 million of which is Product and $60 million of which is Services.
And on gross margin I don't know that we'd be ready to talk about a specific number.
We do see with mix stabilizing we talked a little bit about devices versus infrastructure and deployment services we do expect gross margin to stabilize and we'll update you after our Q4 call on what...
Research Division</strong> Would you be able to say anything about what your -- what kind of gross margin target you have in mind medium-term target? Comparable.
Obviously as you might suspect there are many variables.
The $50 million of iDEN reduction at this point in its life cycle at very high margins.
The composition of some services LTE services and services in general changes that gross margin mix a little bit.
Even though we've specifically talked about Services at operating margin being comparable to Product it does impact the gross margin.
So while I could -- we can talk about specifically in the Product -- in our Products segment in aggregate comparable margins.
And we'll go next to Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
A question for you a little more on the backlog.
You speak to North America being really strong in terms of leading the backlog growth.
Can you speak to on a geographic basis on how it's looking in other geographies? So you -- in fact you just mentioned North America and really the North America piece just a quick comment on that then I'll kind of take you around the other regions.
So the North America piece was actually even stronger than what we talked about when you think about the $40 million that got converted in Q3 as well as Greg mentioned we had a very good first week.
The Federal close spilled over into the first week of October and that was $35 million more of orders in the first couple of days that really would've looked like quarter-ending backlog but because they spilled over did not.
We also had 3 large North America orders in state and local that we thought would close before the end of quarter that subsequently closed early in October for about $65 million more.
So that North America backlog very strong which it needed to be because North America is a big piece of our Q4.
Now as you go around the world we have consistently built backlog in Asia.
It's been more longer term that as Greg just mentioned we think will come to fruition as we go into next year.
And in Europe &amp; Africa as we work off the large projects we are working off some of the backlog which was the comment a little bit earlier about the contraction that we would expect next year given the headwinds and the effort of these large projects.
But overall again very good order visibility and good quality around the piece.
I think the Europe &amp; Africa result is really just a result of Norway and one other large project being worked off through implementation of which there are several other large projects around the world in the pipeline particularly in Asia and the Middle East as we think about what will be in the very near future.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Then in terms of FX FX has obviously been very volatile over the past few months.
How does the FX impact your guidance going forward I guess compared to -- as you look at it now given the guidance versus where it perhaps would've been 3 months from now perhaps? FX is incorporated -- our view of FX is incorporated in the guidance we've given.
Did it bring down your -- perhaps your revenue guidance by 1% or 2% or have any impact on your EPS guidance? It did.
It did a bit.
And obviously every quarter it moves around a bit and that's why we really don't specifically talk about it.
But yes the answer is yes it did.
And we'll go next to Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes a question on FirstNet.
In some of the conversation we've had with some of the large entities in North America some of the large regional service areas for SMR services like say Houston they're starting to ask do we need FirstNet? Can we just go with using the public LTE networks similar to what the kind of the arrangement we have with Telstra leveraging their -- the network that's already built and then using our radios to connect to it leasing service from them rather than building out a whole new duplicate LTE network nationwide? What would your growth rate be looking out over the next couple of years if FirstNet isn't a go if it's not a project that gets broadly deployed? And what's your view -- can you kind of give us an update on FirstNet in general and your view of it? And then second question what are you seeing competitively up? Are you seeing much competition on the LTE front on a global basis? So let me take it kind of in chunk.
I think first off whether it's a carrier-led deployment or whether it's a private deployment of Public Safety LTE we intend to play.
We think we have a broad portfolio that plays -- and capabilities that plays across the board.
We've had great interactions with FirstNet.
And you may or may not know but FirstNet has been proceeding along.
They just finished a process for an RFI that had broad responses of which we were one of them.
The plan is for a more comprehensive RFP in the early part of next year.
So they're moving forward.
I think the important thing to note in North America is there was a big effort by public safety to say we need dedicated spectrum and this was a big move to say it is different than operating on a carrier network.
And most of our customers know that.
There are certain things you can do but in times of crisis or disaster you need to ensure that you have that dedicated spectrum so you can operate which hasn't been the case with a lot of carrier networks.
So carriers will be a component just like Telstra as you said but where you've got spectrum to have an augmented private network is very critical.
So -- and you mentioned the Houston area.
They just recently were granted an SLA by FirstNet.
They continue to move forward with their deployment but they will be a part of the overall network.
And similar is true for LA-RICS and others.
So from a revenue perspective we're proceeding.
We're happy with our couple of implementations that are ongoing but we plan and anticipate to work closely with FirstNet as they work to build out an overall nationwide network.
From a competitive basis as we've mentioned several times we've been investing in Public Safety LTE for the last 3 years.
We think that we have differentiated ourself from the other commercial carrier offerings.
We are partnered with Ericsson who we think has been a phenomenal partner for us from a RAN perspective.
And in certain countries like we mentioned Australia we're also partnered with one of the top carriers like Telstra here in North America.
We've worked with Verizon and in the U.K.
with Vodafone.
So we will have a combination of efforts but we think we have the capability of bringing a unique offering that really is tailored for public safety.
And we'll take our last question from Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research.
First question looking back at the competitive landscape when you look at P25 do you have any thoughts on how it's influenced pricing behavior and customer bidding initiatives in the handheld market? And then I have a follow-up.
So I think P25 is a very open interoperable standard.
It was designed by APCO which is Association of Public-Safety Communication Officers so it's clearly a square playing field with products that go throughout a broad range of pricing.
Primarily P25 is in North America as you're aware so almost all procurements are made off of a competitive procurement or a vehicle that was competitively procured.
So we think that clearly we know we have to compete every day in this particular market but you're also able to put features that will allow you to differentiate.
And the fact that we've got a big installed base and we work every day through our Services arm our partners and our folks in the field we continue to be very successful even given the competitive market.
Yes and Ben I would add that from a competition standpoint we believe we've held or gained market share globally.
And more specifically in the P25 market in North America we believe we're gaining market share.
One other quick comment back to Brian on FirstNet.
I thought Mark did a great job answering that.
We still believe in the U.S.
that a dedicated spectrum model is clearly the way to go and all the legislation and promulgation of rules reinforces that.
The uniqueness of public safety around talk groups and one-to-many and a whole host of other reasons of why it's very different than a commercial a carrier network is important to note.
And so we don't see a commercial network a competitive alternative in the states for a long time.
I mean mission-critical voice as an example is not even contemplated in the current 3GPP standards.
So we continue to work closely with FirstNet.
The relationship has gotten better.
We're making progress at LA-RICS and we'll see how it goes.
But we've been measured in our expectations as we model the business around Public Safety LTE around the revenue I earlier commented on a few minutes ago.
And a follow-up question.
When you look at your state and local municipal business can you talk a little bit about how -- what type of sentiment you see from those customers into next year? Do they see any changes for their funding sources? Or have you seen any deviation? And then one housekeeping how much of the $200 million in cost savings in '14 comes from the reversal of the accrued comp? So from state and local perspective really the funding that we have traditionally seen has remained fairly consistent.
The level of federal grants has remained consistent.
And when you think about state and local municipalities a big piece of their purchases are made through their own funding.
As we mentioned I think more than funding the fact of the purchasing cycles were really driven by the acceleration calls from narrowbanding in North America with the state and local customers.
But our activities as Greg stated earlier particularly in North America have continued to improve.
We see North America business continuing to improve.
We said at the last call our pipeline from the second half was up $1 billion over the first half.
That continues to remain consistent and positive.
So we get good sentiment from the customers around both the need for mission-critical communications and the prospects of Motorola being able to earn that business.
And Ben on the variable pay question of the $200 million plus approximately $50 million is related to variable pay year-over-year.
I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
I want to remind everyone the details outlined in highlighted items are GAAP to non-GAAP P&amp;L reconciliations and other financial information can be found on motorolasolutions.com.
An audio replay together with a copy of today's slides will also be available on the site shortly after the conclusion of the call.
As mentioned at the outset during this call we made a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.
Such statements include but are not limited to comments and answers related to the following topics: growth and profitability of Products and Services segments including customers and regions; share repurchases including timing; cost-reduction targets; outlooks relating to EBITDA operating and free cash flow sales EPS OpEx backlog and margins amount of other income and expense effective and cash tax rate; pension plan contributions and completion and timing impact of our pension de-risking strategy; growth of Public Safety LTE revenues.
Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties actual results could differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.
Info about these factors that could cause and in some cases have caused such differences to be found in the press release.
All other disclosures can be found on Item 1A of our quarterly report Form 10-Q for the period ended June 28 2014.
Thanks again and we look forward to speaking with you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately 3 hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately three hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the line will be open for your questions following the presentation.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to our 2015 First Quarter Earnings Call.
With me today are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President Sales and Product Operations; and Bob Schassler Executive Vice President Solutions and Services.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark and Bob will join for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
We have posted an earnings presentation and news release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation and during the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Information about factors that could cause such differences can be found in this morning's earnings news release and the comments made during this call and the Risk Factors section of our 2014 annual report on 10-K and other Motorola Solutions reports and filings with the SEC.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.
I'll now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
I'd like to make a few opening comments about the first quarter and the business overall before Gino takes us through the results and the outlook.
First Q1 was a solid quarter for us.
Revenue was flat although when adjusting for currency the business grew 3% with growth in all regions except Latin America.
Additionally we posted double-digit profitability growth with a 24% increase in non-GAAP operating earnings and a 36% increase in non-GAAP earnings per share.
Second I'm very pleased with another excellent quarter of growth in North America which grew 6% on strong product sales.
Overall our business continues to show signs of improvement including our backlog position at the end of the quarter which grew 8%.
And third we continue to drive future growth through important investments in innovation and we're driving an increasingly-efficient cost base that positions us well for improved leverage and stronger cash generation.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on Q1 results and our outlook.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone.
First quarter revenue was $1.2 billion flat versus Q1 of 2014 up 3% in constant currency.
Additionally ending backlog was up $442 million or 8% versus last year and up 1% versus Q4 inclusive of a $149 million unfavorable FX adjustment to backlog in Q1.
GAAP operating earnings were $119 million.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $156 million or 12.8% of sales a 250 basis point improvement from the year ago quarter.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.40 per share compared to $0.33 in the first quarter of 2014.
Non-GAAP EPS grew 36% year-over-year primarily driven by our cost-savings initiatives.
For the remainder of the call we will reference non-GAAP financial results including those in our outlook unless otherwise noted.
Turning to the Product segment Q1 sales were $758 million up 1% versus the prior year and up 3% in constant-currency terms.
Growth was driven by strong demand in North America for our P25 and PCR product lines.
Q1 Product segment operating income was $90 million up $38 million to 11.9% of sales versus the prior-year quarter driven by our cost-reduction actions.
Product segment backlog ended the quarter at $1.2 billion up $132 million versus last year and up $43 million sequentially reflecting the fourth consecutive quarter of increase.
The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by Asia Pac and the Middle East while we also saw an increase in North America.
As expected we saw a decrease in Europe related to the continuing deployment of the Norway system.
Turning to Services Q1 Services revenue was $465 million down 2% as expected.
iDEN and integration services declined while key growth areas of managed services and lifecycle support services were slightly up compared to last year.
Excluding both iDEN and the impact of FX our Services business grew 3%.
Services operating income was $66 million down $8 million to 14.2% of revenue driven primarily by lower iDEN sales and a lower gross margin in integration services.
As we stated in our Q4 call we expect lower service gross margin in the first half of 2015.
We continue to expect a return to the mid-30% gross margin range for the second half of the year.
Services backlog is $4.6 billion up $310 million or 7% versus last year and flat sequentially despite a $145 million foreign exchange adjustment in Q1.
Moving to operating expenses total company operating expenses from continuing operations were $396 million down $60 million or 13% from the year ago quarter driven primarily by continued cost reduction activities as well as some benefit due to pension expense and a stronger dollar.
Our largest decline came in G&amp;A while we also drove reductions in sales and marketing and R&amp;D.
As of the end of Q1 we are on a run rate to deliver savings of $150 million to $ 175 million versus 2014.
We are well positioned to deliver solid operating leverage as we move throughout the year.
Other income and expense in Q1 was $37 million compared to $18 million in the year ago quarter.
Our Q1 effective tax rate was 29%.
We continue to expect full year 2015 effective tax rate to be approximately 33%.
We also continue to expect our cash tax rate to remain at approximately 15% through 2019.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the first quarter was $151 million an increase of $139 million year-over-year.
The improvement in cash generation was driven primarily by working capital improvements specifically accounts receivable.
We ended Q1 in a net debt position of $43 million.
In Q1 we repurchased $653 million of stock at an average price of $66.12 while paying out $75 million in dividends.
Now turning to our outlook.
We expect total company sales for Q2 to decline 3% to 5% which includes approximately $45 million in year-over-year currency impact.
This outlook also includes approximately $20 million in headwinds in the second quarter related to the temporary delay of the LA-RICS Public Safety LTE deployment.
We expect non-GAAP EPS between $0.51 and $0.56.
Factoring in Q1 results our first half expectations remain unchanged.
Moving to the full year our revenue outlook remains unchanged.
We continue to expect full year 2015 sales to be flat to down 2% which translates to 1% to 3% growth in constant currency terms.
We now expect full year non-GAAP EPS of $3.20 to $3.40 a share.
I'll now turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
I'm encouraged by our Q1 results.
North America was a particular bright spot which grew 6% on strong product sales.
North America has posted two consecutive strong quarters of growth and we believe the region will return to growth for the full year.
Backlog is up in this region over $500 million on a year-over-year basis.
Moving to the other regions the Europe and Africa region declined 11% in Q1 due to currency.
Adjusting for currency the region posted 1% growth.
Asia Pac saw a 5% sales decline in Q1 or flat excluding currency.
Order activity here has been healthy and aged backlog in Asia Pac is higher than the second half of last year.
Our Middle East business while smaller is growing quickly with a large rise in backlog both year-over-year and sequentially as the large Public Safety LTE win we mentioned last quarter added over $200 million to the backlog position.
Latin America had a challenging quarter due to a strong prior year compare along with a significant decline in iDEN as expected.
Additionally there's also a number of countries there that are facing difficult macroeconomic conditions which is tempering our expectations in the region for the full year.
Turning to segment highlights and initiatives in our Product segment we're making progress across and against our growth initiatives of driving system upgrades software enablement monetizing product enhancements and new product introductions.
In the quarter we earned new business from customers upgrading aged systems and purchasing additional software features and functionality.
We also delivered more core innovation within our Product portfolio with a specific customer-driven solution such as the APX8000 a P25 portable radio featuring integrated Wi-Fi and quad band radio all in one device.
The Wi-Fi capability enables more efficient radio management for our customers with a faster broadband connection for software feature and firmware updates.
Additionally this breakthrough technology enables four radio bands in one device and allows our public safety customers to communicate across borders and between systems using a single device that further improves interoperability.
From an R&amp;D perspective the APX8000 incorporates our newest platform development approach that will be fully leveraged on future models in order to minimize cost and drive simplification.
Another portfolio enhancement this quarter includes TETRA radio innovations specific to mission critical demands.
Our new devices have improved ruggedness coverage audio and enhanced security features that better serve the specific needs of our public safety customers.
In addition to new and improved device innovation our North America P25 infrastructure now incorporates WAVE technology which enables the convergence of LMR and LTE access from any device via an IP connection.
Our customers are responding to these growth drivers through strategic wins such as the Norway project utilizing WAVE technology to enable secure approved users the ability to monitor and utilize specific talk groups while outside the country or network; the $135 million South Australia network that's a major upgrade of an existing system with new features and functionality; the $46 million win with Hamilton County Ohio that's an upgrade of their existing system with integrated voice and data capabilities that not only improves their network today but enables continuous upgrades to new features and functionality via software updates going forward.
Our Services segment revenue was down slightly this quarter due to currency pressure iDEN and integration services declines.
However we posted increases in the areas of lifecycle support services managed services and Smart Public Safety solutions.
Lifecycle wins include a $32 million award with Hamilton County Ohio for a multi-year hardware and software maintenance agreement on top of the $14 million hardware and system upgrade.
It also includes a multi-year hardware and software agreement with the City of Columbus Georgia for $7.2 million plus $5.8 million for a multiyear PremierOne CAD maintenance agreement.
Both of these support agreements are on top off a $6 million order for conventional equipment.
Our managed services business earned several notable wins including $62 million for a multiyear managed services contract that was a part of the South Australia Government Radio Network deal and we also won multiyear managed services deals worth $9 million in Brazil and $8 million in Iraq.
Finally our Smart Public Safety Solutions business was bolstered with the acquisitions of Emergency CallWorks and PublicEngines.
Both companies are leading providers of software-based solutions solidifying our offerings in command and control and next generation 9-1-1 call centers and intelligence-led policing solutions.
Key wins include a $6 million command and control contract with a country in Africa $3 million to expand the city of Chicago's video surveillance system and several CAD and next-generation 9-1-1 wins leveraging our new Emergency CallWorks portfolio.
So let me close with a few thoughts.
First Q1 was a solid start to the year in terms of sales momentum and ending backlog position.
We performed particularly well in both North America and the Middle East.
Second we continue to make excellent progress driving further operational efficiencies while also improving speed and execution.
We feel confident about delivering on our cost targets and will keep applying the proper rigor to size the business appropriately for the long term.
And finally we continue to aggressively return capital to shareholders.
We bought back $653 million of stock and paid $75 million of dividends in Q1.
We've returned over $2 billion to shareholders just in the past two quarters alone and we've now moved into a net debt position.
And that said we remain focused on further improving the efficiency of our balance sheet.
And I'll now turn it back over to Shep.
Thanks Greg.
Before we begin taking questions I would like to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and a follow-up so we can accommodate as many people as possible.
Operator would you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question? Thank you.
And we can take our first question from Tim Long with BMO Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Two questions for me.
First on the revenue side obviously backlog looks strong two quarters in a row here even ex-ing out the currency.
It looks like the second half implies pretty flat year-over-year.
So just wondering why that's not a little bit stronger.
Is there something in the aging of the backlog or something that maybe makes us feel better about heading into next year? And then secondly on the gross margin side I get in the quarter that services was a little bit of a drag.
Just curious on the Product side that was down a little bit as well.
Just curious are there any measures you can take to match the strong performance you're having on the OpEx side and maybe get some more efficiencies out of the gross margin line on Products? Thank you.
Good morning Tim.
This is Gino.
I'll start with the gross margin question specifically in Product.
The impact of currency is really what we're seeing from a Product gross margin perspective.
It's about 50 basis points on gross margin.
Actually it's a bit larger than that offset by strong North America Product sales.
And we continue to explore and work different options to minimize certainly the impact of FX as we've done in OpEx.
With respect to the backlog position nothing's really changed in the aging.
It is a little bit different expectation of the in-year orders versus backlog orders for the remainder of the year but there is no change in aging – any appreciable change in the aging of backlog.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Ehud Gelblum with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Very strong stable results.
A couple questions.
First of all at what point do you expect to lap Norway? And x-Norway is Europe stable or still declining? And is it – once we get past – I assume by the end of this year we'll certainly be past the initial decline in Norway does Europe start growing? And then one of your competitors Harris obviously is having some issues.
A lot of that is share gains by you guys.
I'm assuming most of that is North America.
Is there any way you can parse out how much of the strength you see in North America is share gains from Harris versus how much is underlying market growth? And then lastly a comment on LTE.
Obviously LTE has had a rough quarter both at LA-RICS and at FirstNet.
What are your thoughts? We saw the guidance the $20 million in headwinds from LA in Q2 but what are your thoughts on the $100 million for this year and for next year? And just kind of just walk us through the – your long-term thoughts on LTE.
What are the different directions that can go in both kind of in a normal bull case but also in a bear case? What could happen if LTE and FirstNet really doesn't get off the ground? What does that scenario look like for the next couple of years then for your business? Thanks.
So Hudy a couple of things.
Let's start with – I'll start with Harris.
Yes I think clearly that the 4% growth in Q4 led by Jack Molloy and his team as well as the 6% in Q1 really strong performance.
Now we don't expect North America to grow for the full year at those levels.
But that said there's no question we are taking market share from them.
I don't know the exact bifurcation of share gain versus overall market lift.
What I would say is though as per my previous comments I thought that narrow banding would largely be behind us by the first half of this year.
I would say that that's still true given not only the North America growth performance but the device performance specifically within North America.
That's first.
Second LTE.
Despite the LA-RICS delay and the $20 million headwind in Q2 and the down scoping of that project for the full year I remind you that we have three projects large ones that generate probably 90% plus of the LTE revenue.
Even with the headwinds in LA and we're pleased that that suspension's been lifted we're looking forward to completing a successful system.
We still believe Hudy we can do approximately $100 million in Public Safety LTE revenue this year because there's other puts and takes from the other projects.
And in the main we still feel pretty good about the full year and our earlier projections.
Last in terms of LTE we're focused on completing the awards that have been made as we mentioned at the financial analyst meeting.
We're still engaged with some customers in the Middle East customers in Latin America customers in Asia Pac.
And we will continue to pace here in the U.S.
to the pace of FirstNet.
The draft RFP is out.
It's still unclear what final configuration or business model will result in FirstNet but we continue to work closely with them and we'd certainly have a number of options that we're planning for contingent upon how ultimately Public Safety LTE gets rolled out in the U.S.
So I think we're well prepared from a variety of different options standpoint and we're still in a good position.
And by the way with the investments we made we have the best portfolio and I believe at least a two-year head start versus our competitors.
Just to tag on to that and then I'll speak to your question about Norway Hudy.
The other thing to point out on those three large deployments that Greg mentioned quite honestly even the smaller trials that we've got going they're primarily infrastructure today.
So when you think about future growth you also got to think about they're clearly going to add devices applications additional services.
So that's also why it was important for LA-RICS although descoped to get back started so that we can demonstrate the capabilities and that will lead to some future growth of those kinds of items as we move forward.
On Norway clearly the biggest burn-off if you will of the Norway revenue will happen in the second half as we indicated earlier then we'll see more of a reasonable trend.
Obviously that will put pressure on EA even for next year because we've had a strong first half in Norway this year.
With that being said though just like this first quarter we had growth in constant currency terms.
So EA still continues to perform strong.
We are eating out of backlog as we expected to be but really because of Norway.
We're still working on a number of large deals.
Our funnel and customer activity is still pretty healthy.
So I do see as we go into 2016 and beyond we will backfill behind Norway and begin to move back towards growth.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's very helpful.
I appreciate that.
Thanks Thanks Hudy.
Next question.
And our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thank you very much for taking my question.
I'd actually like to talk a bit more about LTE because I get the feeling there has been a bit of confusion especially in the last 24 hours in the investment community about how LTE spending and the ramp-up of LTE could affect LMR spending on – in your client base.
So I think it would be very useful to have your perspective on how LTE gets integrated with LMR and if there is a risk of LTE at some point replacing LMR infrastructure and if a ramp-up in spending in LTE could hurt spending in LMR.
So your perspective on that point would be very very helpful I think.
So Pierre we – just to be clear we absolutely view Public Safety LTE as additive not substitutional to LMR first and foremost.
Our view is unchanged from that perspective.
I mean I can only tell you what customers are telling us and what they're doing both domestically and internationally.
And they continue to buy LMR.
By the way North America being a great example referenced 4% in Q4 6% in Q1.
The Middle East is another good example.
And in the three large projects of Public Safety LTE they are all either have bought or are in the process of buying brand new LMR systems with multiyear services contract as well.
So look I know there's a lot of noise about this but at the end of the day I feel very good about our position and investments in technology and specifically Pierre mission critical voice and mission critical data communications.
Customers are buying both LMR and Public Safety LTE.
Backlog are at the highest levels I can remember.
And remember that includes multiyear services showing the staying power and longevity of our solutions and our platforms.
So I know there's a lot of noise and misinformation I just don't see it.
I see LMR and our core platforms having a long installed life.
And I see Public Safety LTE as being additive and eventually interoperable so you have broadband data interoperable with narrow band voice.
Many countries in Europe continue to buy country-wide TETRA systems.
Some of those are also looking at LTE solutions.
So I look at it as an overlay.
And when you look at the work done in the standards community and people use labels like mission critical but there's mission critical voice and then there's mission critical voice for public safety.
And you get into a whole host of different attributes in the first layer of the 3GPP standards the second layer of the 3GPP standards and then the actual network deployment components that are necessary for power generation and redundancy and the device-device communications in case the site goes down.
I think it's a space we know well and I think we know both LMR and LTE well.
We absolutely view them as additive and we view them as contributing to a very solid growth story for us going forward.
Thanks.
That's very useful clarification.
And I think it's a very important message to clarify as you say the noise we heard recently on that.
Thanks for that.
Thanks Pierre.
And we'll take our next question from Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi guys.
Thanks for the question and good earnings.
So I wanted to dig a little bit more into the Services line well I guess from a couple of angles but it's really the same question which is you guys are talking about the gross margin improving in the second half.
I assume that that's because the mix of installation services is reducing.
But I just wanted to ask you guys if you could give us any indication what the proportion of maintenance services – or I'm sorry of installation services in the current Services line is so we can kind of think about how that gross margin might progress.
And then the same thing from a different angle.
I'm looking at your backlog and the last two quarters this big jump in Services backlog.
I wonder do you expect that backlog in Services to wind down in the second half? Or can you just talk about how that backlog is built up and how you expect it to move in the second half of the year? Thanks.
Sure Rod.
This is Gino.
We'll start with Services.
So the – as we talked about in the last call Services gross margin we expect to be pressured in the first half returning to normal growth rates in the second half.
And it's really a mix within integration services not to integration services the projects that are deploying in the first half of the year.
And the question on how much of our Services number is integration services about 40% 45%.
Okay.
And Gino do you expect – what do you think that proportion will be in the second half? I think the proportion will be very similar.
It will be within that 40% to 45% range.
Again it's the mix within integration services not to integration services.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the backlog for the Services backlog what do you think that is going to look like as we move to the second half of the year? We don't outlook backlog but I will say that the backlog Services backlog does include a large number of multi-year service agreements.
So I would not expect that backlog to be peeling off in the second half of the year substantially.
Do you think – or should we expect the growth to continue or do you think it more or less kind of remains stable through the year? I'm not going to comment on outlooking that backlog but I will say there – you should not expect any major movement in the Services backlog down in the second half of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And just Rod one other just question about overall backlog.
From an aging standpoint total backlog now this is both Product and Services it's slightly better than last year.
It's about $50 million at this point better than last year for aged backlog for the remainder of 2015 all in.
And we can take our next question from Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Gino a couple of quick guidance questions to dig into gross margin again.
Last year I think gross margin kind of ticked up sequentially each quarter pretty steadily.
Is that the pattern you would expect from just a lower base in Q1 or is there kind of a specific quarter that there would be a bigger uplift? And then on operating cost can you kind of repeat what the OpEx guidance is for the year? Is it $150 million to $175 million decline non-GAAP versus non-GAAP 2014 or I think there was a mention of a run rate number? I just want to make sure I was clear on what that OpEx guidance was.
Sure.
So I'll start with the gross margin question Tavis.
Gross margin it's really first half to second half although we do expect to see a slight improvement in the second quarter over the first quarter.
But it's largely a first half to second half improvement.
With respect to operating expenses the guidance is down $150 million to $175 million versus 2014 full year.
The run rate comment was meant to articulate that we are currently at the run rate.
Exiting Q1 we are on that run rate to deliver savings of $150 million to $175 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then kind of a bigger picture question for you Greg you made an acquisition or two in the quarter some venture capital investments.
And I guess give us a sense of how broad you would like the solution set over the next couple of years and how you get there from kind of primarily a radio business to something that might be kind of a fuller solution set selling into your core customers.
I think that from an acquisition standpoint they – the general philosophy would be that they would be in line with the core business of what we do.
Primarily I think as you dimensionalized where we are today as a pure play I think potentially things around the managed services area or the Smart Public Safety area might afford themselves to round out our portfolio because we're building the end-to-end infrastructure and device solution.
We have it on narrow band LMR.
We also have it on a broadband Public Safety LTE.
So things that would extend from a situational awareness standpoint to potentially the command and control room and analytics that would allow the movement of content around software and services.
So in general from a macro standpoint I'd say software and managed services would seem to be appealing to us.
We feel very good about the core radio position and the enhancement of the technology portfolio on that side.
But we'll continue to be very surgical in what we do.
Inc.</span></strong> And when we hear about a lot of demand for body cameras right now is that something that you guys benefit from at all from a retail relationship or is that generally a different purchase order from the purchase monitors? So we do have a product around body cameras that we're in the market with today.
I think that the whole push on situational awareness and the heightened awareness around video is a net positive beyond body cameras by the way.
I think there's other ways that we would be able to and could potentially capture video aside from just an auxiliary camera.
But I think we believe the real value there is in the processing of video the dissemination and aggregation of it the analytics of it the sharing of it.
Because it's a ton of information that's going to be piling into these command centers and with first responders at the site how do you move it between the two? How do you extract it? How do you provide decision support? How do you do evidence tagging? So I think we're burning more cycles.
We have hardware solutions and we'll continue to do that but we think the real value of body worn video or this preponderance and importance of video is in the software movement and analytics of it.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
We'll take our next question from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
I wanted to follow up on your comment on the North America improvement.
Can you just expand a little bit on the visibility you have into that in particular your aged backlog for this year as it pertains to that? And then I think you referenced the mix of devices versus the infrastructure in the quarter.
Can you just comment on how that compares to what you've seen in recent quarters? So Simona this is Mark Moon.
So when we think about North America Greg talked about we were pleased with Q4 and Q1.
By the way coming out of that our backlog position is better.
A big piece of that backlog position improvement is in multi-year services which is also good for future upgrades in what we do but our Product backlog is also up and the backlog aged in the year is actually stronger than it was at this point last year.
So we're seeing the improvement that we thought we would see in North America.
When you look at North America in general overall state and local spend and revenues are up.
IT spend is up.
Federal seems to be returning to a little bit more normal predictability for us.
We were up slightly last year.
As I talked to you about in the last call while we were down slightly in first quarter we still have got some good orders and we're building backlog and we think we'll have modest growth for the full year.
So we have good visibility good activity throughout North America.
I mean we are encouraged by the activity we're seeing from customers in North America.
And on the mix of devices and infrastructure? I think in Q1 the growth primarily was device-driven which I think reflects our commentary around narrow banding as purchasing kind of returns to more normalized states.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly for an update on the capital structure do you see any additional capacity now to add debt from here? Well from a capital structure standpoint what I'd say is obviously we've been very aggressive in returning capital.
We've returned $3.1 billion over the last 11 months.
Almost all of the proceeds from the Zebra transaction have been returned to shareholders.
We did $2.1 billion just in the last two quarters.
I like the fact that the share base has contracted 39% in just over three years.
So I think we've been good stewards of capital and we purchased $650 million back at $66-and-change.
At today's levels we absolutely see the stock is even more attractive today.
So I think there'll be opportunities for us to pursue that moving forward.
And we're in a net debt position and we said we would move to that position.
We're pleased that coming out of Q1 we're in it.
So I think our balance sheet has a lot of flexibility that affords us options moving forward.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Paul Silverstein with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go head.
Hi.
This is Fahad (38:19) in for Paul.
I had a couple of questions.
One on your OpEx for the year are there any benefits from the FX headwinds that you've indicated on your revenue line? Is the OpEx side being driven positively by the FX? So we did – just to remind you we did $200 million – over $200 million of expense reduction last year and we're run rating to $150 million to $175 million this year.
While we clearly have a benefit from FX the overwhelming majority of those reductions are non-FX.
I'd say 75% roughly are reductions 25% is being the beneficiary of FX.
We're getting after the cost and with the opportunity as a pure play company we're restructuring reconfiguring eliminating bureaucracies and redundancies and duplications and footprint and I'm really proud of the team and we'll continue to move forward on that.
All right.
And then secondly regarding this St.
Louis Police Department win it seems you indicated Real-Time Intelligence solution that you sold can you elaborate more on these next-gen growth driver businesses that you're involved in? How does that pipeline for those kind of projects look for you? Yeah this is Bob Schassler.
We implemented our Real Time Crime Center in St.
Louis which as we've talked about in the past it's about a $5 billion SAM for us and we've got probably about 12 new deals that we've actually signed in the first quarter.
And the reception by customers really continues to be positive.
As Greg talked a little bit about the video analytics body worn cameras is really part of that overall solution.
So in terms of like sales from video analytics and if I'm not mistaken you also provide some storage solutions as well? Or is that...
That's right.
It's really our overall Smart Public Safety solutions so storage video analytics our PublicEngines acquisition is part of that data analytics as well.
I think it's fair to say obviously that's relatively small today.
What's important though is customers many would like to do business with one provider.
So while there's a variety of different products to the extent we if we have the land mobile radio system and we can extend the relationship the sales resources the technical people into the command center and do in hardware and/or software and potentially storage it's a logical extension of what we do that I think generally will help our growth profile.
The only other comment I'd have is that these are really software-based solutions recurring revenue models so they go on for five years to ten years and it's really part of our overall Public Safety LTE solution combined with our Smart Public Safety Solutions as we've said are very complementary to one another.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
And our next question comes from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
This is Dominic sitting in for Keith.
Noticing on the – given Q2 guidance and what was reported in Q1 did you guys see any business shifts from the second quarter happen to come in a little earlier for you guys and impact your first quarter? Yeah the...
Yes.
Yes.
First half is unchanged to our prior expectations.
Q1 performed a little bit better but the first half remains unchanged.
Okay.
All right.
And then are you guys seeing any impact on demand from FX coming from internationally? This is Mark Dominic.
We really are not.
I mean so far as we look at the piece we've made some slight price adjustments in certain places.
But in general we're not seeing any competitive disadvantages.
Certainly the economic pressures in Latin America are putting tension on price power for them to purchase.
But as far as competitive pressures on pricing we're not really seeing any.
Okay.
All right.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
Thanks Dominic.
We'll take our next question from Michael Genovese with MKM Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thank you very much.
You guys recently published an SEC document where you had some language in there about a long-term potential shift from Products to Services and therefore lower gross margins over time.
So we saw some evidence of that in this quarter but you're not talking about it on the call as a long-term trend.
So how much should we be thinking about that as a long-term trend versus just adding another risk factor and covering your bases in an SEC document? Well I mean we – it's indicative of the backlog position we're in.
We've signed multiple multi-year agreements and Services backlog has been growing so the comment just indicated that there will be a movement to Services.
It'll make up more of our revenue and the Services margin although operating margin is very very similar Services margin is a little bit lower than our Product margin.
That was the entire comment.
Yeah I mean at the end of the day we think this is a good thing.
It's a favorable trend.
Having a higher mix of multi-year services is good.
Having annuity based revenue is good.
Having a long-term relationship with the customer is good because we still irrespective of the mix which I think is what we just are formally acknowledging over time as a future trend we think that's a very positive thing to enable and further cement the relationships we have with our customers domestically and internationally.
Having said all that we still think that we can with a lower cost structure improve operating leverage and from an operating margin standpoint maintain or increase the operating margins and cash generation that's associated with the profile of the business in aggregate.
So just to follow up there so you're not saying that there's a fundamental outlook change in the Product business the expectations there are on track with your previous expectations or is there a change in the Product outlook? I'm just a little bit unclear on that point.
No.
Just to clarify as Gino said Product margins are generally comparable.
We expect them to remain comparable for the balance of the year.
Gross margin pressures Services-oriented as expected in Q1 and Q2 i.e.
first half i.e.
largely driven by Norway and some large products.
We expect the Services gross margin to increase in the second half and generally normalize in the mid 30s%.
Thanks very much.
And then I think just to tag on just one quick second what we have said and Greg just said is product profile really unchanged but we expect our Services business to grow faster than our Product business in general.
And so that would lead to this longer term trend.
It's not necessarily something you're going to see in the next two quarters three quarters or four quarters but over time that would be the case.
Okay.
I appreciate the explanation.
Thanks.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions.
I'll turn the floor back to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
As mentioned at the outset we made a number of forward-looking statements during the call.
This includes outlooks on sales gross margins EPS OpEx EBITDA other income expense and operating cash flow as well as effective – and cash tax rates the impact of currency Public Safety LTE and LMR regional growth acquisitions capital return and buybacks as well as backlog.
Thanks for joining us and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately three hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately three hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The web address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the line will be open for your questions following the presentation.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Call.
With me today are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Moon Executive Vice President President of Sales; Bob Schassler Executive Vice President Solutions and Services.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary.
Mark and Bob will join us for Q&amp;A.
We posted an earnings presentation and news releases at our website motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations which we encourage you to refer to.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation and during the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Information about factors that could cause such differences can be found in this morning's earnings news release and the comments made during the call in the risk factors section of our 2014 annual report 10-K and in other reports and filings with the SEC.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Shep.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
I'd like to make a few opening comments about the second quarter and the overall business before Gino takes us through the results and the outlook.
First Q2 was another solid quarter.
North America grew 5% marking its third consecutive quarter of growth and the overall business grew 2% when adjusting for foreign exchange.
Operational execution continues to drive improved profitability and cash flow generation as reflected in our double-digit growth of EPS and double-digit growth in free cash flow per share.
Second our growing backlog and strong pipeline illustrate the confidence our customers have in choosing our technology solutions.
We posted a third consecutive quarter of sequential backlog growth ending the quarter with a record $6 billion of backlog and a healthy pipeline moving forward.
Third I'm very pleased to announce that Silver Lake will make a $1 billion strategic investment in our company that we will use to further accelerate growth in our Smart Public Safety Solutions and Services.
And finally we announced our intent to commence a $2 billion tender offer representing a significant step toward further improving our capital structure.
This accelerated return of capital reflects our continued confidence in the future growth of the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide some additional details on Q2 before returning to provide additional context with respect to our strategic announcements made this morning.
Thank you Greg.
Second quarter revenue was $1.4 billion down 2% versus Q2 2014.
On a constant currency basis sales grew 2%.
Additionally orders were up 11% year-on-year and ending backlog is up $624 million versus last year.
GAAP operating earnings were $254 million while non-GAAP operating earnings were $260 million or 19% of sales a 460-basis-point improvement from the year-ago quarter.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.72 compared to $0.30 in the second quarter of 2014.
Non-GAAP EPS was $0.68 which represents 45% year-over-year growth.
This growth was driven primarily by our cost savings and simplification initiatives.
For the remainder of the call we will reference non-GAAP financial results including those in our outlook unless otherwise noted.
Product segment Q2 sales were $867 million down 2% versus the prior year up 1% when adjusting for currency impact.
Q2 Product segment operating income was $176 million or 20.3% of sales up $43 million versus the prior-year quarter driven by our cost reduction actions.
Product segment backlog ended the quarter at $1.3 billion up $138 million versus last year and up $48 million sequentially reflecting the fifth consecutive quarterly increase.
The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by Asia-Pacific and the Middle East.
As expected we saw a decrease in Europe backlog as we continue to deploy the Norway countrywide system.
Turning to Services Q2 Services revenue was $501 million down 1%.
Excluding the impact of currency the Services business grew 4%.
Services operating income was $84 million or 16.8% of revenue up $16 million from the prior-year quarter.
Lower operating expenses drove the profitability improvement.
Services gross margin was 33.5% in line with our expectations for Q2.
Services backlog is $4.7 billion up $486 million versus last year and up $125 million sequentially as customers continue to sign long-term service contracts to upgrade maintain and manage their network.
Moving to operating expenses total company operating expenses from continuing operations were $393 million down $69 million or 15% from the year-ago quarter driven primarily by continued cost reduction activities as well as a stronger dollar.
These reductions were significant across all categories with the largest savings coming from G&amp;A.
As of the end of Q2 we are now on a run rate to deliver savings of approximately $175 million versus 2014.
We believe our business is well-positioned to deliver solid operating leverage.
Other operating and expense in Q2 was $39 million compared to $40 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our Q2 effective tax rate was approximately 35%.
We continue to expect the full-year 2015 effective tax rate to be approximately 33%.
We also continue to expect our cash tax rate to remain at approximately 15% through 2019.
Turning to cash flow cash flow from operations in the second quarter was $140 million an increase of $22 million or 19% versus last year.
Free cash flow was $92 million.
The improvement in cash generation was primarily driven by improved profitability.
We remain on track for approximately $1 billion of operating cash flow and $800 million of free cash flow for the full year.
We ended Q2 in a net debt position of $285 million.
In Q2 we repurchased $285 million of stock at an average price of $61.63 per share while paying out $72 million in dividends.
We also announced this morning that we intend to commence a tender offer to repurchase up to $2 billion of our share.
This is a significant step in improving the efficiency of our balance sheet while maintaining an investment-grade credit profile.
And it's consistent with our belief that buying back our stock represents an excellent opportunity given our view of company value and future growth.
Turning to our outlook we expect total company sales for Q3 to decline 1% to 3% which corresponds to flat to up 2% including the impact of currency which we expect to be approximately $50 million.
We expect non-GAAP EPS between $0.68 and $0.73.
Moving to the full year our outlook remains unchanged.
We continue to expect full-year 2015 sales to be flat to down 2% which translates to 1% to 3% growth in constant currency terms.
And we continue to expect full-year non-GAAP EPS of $3.20 to $3.40.
Moving on to regional results as mentioned by Greg our North America business continues to execute posting the third consecutive quarter of growth at 5% for the second quarter.
We expect North America to show modest growth for the full-year 2015 with a healthy backlog.
Latin America was down as expected versus tough comparables including one large deal in the prior year as well as an expected iDEN decline.
Challenging macroeconomic conditions as well as the impact of a stronger dollar continue to temper expectations for the year.
The Europe and Africa region was down 15% in total but just 2% when excluding $29 million of currency impact.
We expect this region to experience headwinds of currency pressure and the nationwide Norway project transitioning from deployment to long-term managed services.
Despite these near-term hurdles we remain confident in our competitive positioning and long-term opportunities in this region.
Turning to Asia-Pac.
The business has stabilized growing at 4% in constant currency.
Backlog in this region is up $97 million or 16% and our pipeline is stronger.
We expect Asia-Pacific to show growth in the second half of this year.
Finally our Middle East region is going strong double-digits and backlog is up over 100% versus the year-ago quarter to $418 million.
Our Public Safety LTE business continues to gain traction and attract customer interest while our LMR business is also growing robustly.
I'd also like to share some segment highlights and key initiatives.
Our Product business continues to execute on innovating for customer needs with a shift towards software enablement while also improving operational performance.
This is reflected in the segment's healthy gross margin and lower OpEx which drove strong profitability of 20.2%.
An example of innovation that's driving growth and bolstering gross margin includes a major order for the newly released APX8000 which is seeing strong demand.
This new radio platform integrates Wi-Fi broadband and LMR into a single device while also integrating four different radio bands to provide interoperability as well as high voice quality.
By integrating Wi-Fi customers are able to more effectively add new features and functionality via over-the-air software loads.
Another example of innovative solutions solving specific customer needs is the launch of our new line of intrinsically safe TETRA radios specifically built for hazardous working conditions found in our target verticals of oil and gas fire and rescue mining and airports.
There are a number of proof points that illustrate operational efficiency improvements in the business resulting in lower OpEx structure.
For example we have streamlined R&amp;D by reducing various testing labs from 19 to 5 shifted resources to lower-cost worksites and we're on track to reduce SKUs 40% by year-end 2015.
Throughout the quarter we won key customer deals that highlight this customer-focused innovation and software enablement such as a $12.5 million purchase by the U.S.
Army for WAVE software that will be used by all the programs in the Army Program Executive Office C3T.
WAVE is our application that converts radio communications into voice-over-IP which allows a user with authorization and a voice-enabled IP device to participate in voice communications regardless of the network or device.
$66 million of wins with four customers in the oil and gas and utility industries covering both P25 and TETRA technologies targeted devices with unique software features position our solution as long-term investments for our customers.
Shifting to Services the Services segment continues to show solid growth in constant currency terms.
Our core integration services are executing well and we're encouraged by the opportunities underlying the key growth areas of lifecycle support managed services and Smart Public Safety Solutions.
Lifecycle services encompasses our upgrade agreements for system refreshes and maintenance of both hardware and software.
We continue to see growth and strong adoption in software maintenance agreements.
Some examples of larger wins include multi-year contracts for $19 million in Hong Kong $13 million in Quebec and $8 million in Pennsylvania.
Managed services continues to be an area of focus for growth.
During Q2 we booked orders for several long-term deals including two contracts totaling $68 million that span over 20 years of operations in managed services in Austria and a $20 million extension to an existing contract in Australia.
Additionally in Q2 we launched the North America Managed Services Network Operations Center and have since transitioned customers into that NOC providing unmatched expertise and scale.
Other notable Smart Public Safety wins include a computer-aided dispatch contract for $14 million in the U.S.
and a $9 million contract in Australia.
Our Emergency CallWorks acquisition is executing well having secured six new customers this quarter and helping to expand our reach into next-generation IP-based command-and-control centers.
Additionally we added a partnership with Wynyard which in conjunction with our acquisition of PublicEngines will enhance our Smart Public Safety offering.
Finally our Public Safety LTE efforts continue to move forward as planned.
The existing deployments are on schedule and we still expect Public Safety LTE revenue of approximately $100 million for this year.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
So in addition to a solid quarter as we mentioned we announced an important partnership with Silver Lake.
We believe this strategic investment is an endorsement of our strategy and a strong vote of confidence in our future growth opportunities.
The partnership combines Silver Lake's technology expertise and track record with our brand market reach and Public Safety technology platforms around the world.
This investment also matches the largest single PIPE investment that Silver Lake has ever done.
I'm pleased that Silver Lake managing partners Egon Durban and Greg Mondre will be appointed to the Motorola Solutions Board of Directors.
They both have a history of driving growth creating value and bringing teams together to identify and deliver unique business opportunities in the technology industry.
Today we also announced our intention to commence a tender offer to repurchase up to $2 billion of common stock.
This represents an important step towards significantly improving our balance sheet and returning more capital to shareholders and is incremental to the $8.7 billion in share repurchase and $1.1 billion in dividends that we've returned over the past four years.
Our strong balance sheet and cash flow allows us to maintain our investment-grade rating and our ability to drive the growth of our business through strategic acquisitions and investments in innovation.
This accelerated return of capital reflects our confidence in the growth prospects and future value of the company.
So in closing Q2 was another solid quarter of outperformance relative to our sales and earnings expectations as we performed well on a number of measures including revenue growth in North America as well as the Middle East.
We continue to position this business for improved operating leverage and significant earnings power as we grew backlog for a third straight quarter and we're now on target to deliver approximately $175 million in cost savings for the year.
And finally today's announcements represent not only our conviction in the durability of our business and its earnings and cash generation potential but the power of our platforms and another important step in accelerating growth in Smart Public Safety Solutions and Services.
In aggregate we're confident and encouraged about the future of our company and our growth strategy and the value creation we can deliver.
And I'll now turn it back over to Shep.
Thanks.
Before we begin taking questions I would like to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up so we can accommodate as many people as possible.
Operator would you please remind our callers on the line how to pose a question? The floor is now open for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Tim Long with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Just on the question if you could just talk a little bit about the visibility the rest of the year I think that full-year guidance implies similar to last year with a pretty big fourth quarter.
So I understand backlog is up so is that mostly a backlog-driven number? Or how should we think about risk into Q4? And then the clarification just a little bit more on the gross margin side.
It seems like there's some positive developments on the Product side most likely offsetting a little bit of mix shift.
But we've been a few years of seeing the gross margin come down.
Gino if you can talk a little bit about what we could see to get that gross margin line moving back up that would be great.
Thank you.
I'll take the first question first on visibility in the second half.
As you mentioned the first half to second half linearity it's approximately the same as it was last year.
From a backlog perspective Q3 and Q4 is slightly below what our historic average has been really given the over-performance in Q2 backlog that we anticipated being in the second half shipments in the second half reflected in Q2 actuals.
So with the over-performance in Q2 we remain confident on the full year and the full year outlook.
With respect to gross margin as we've talked about in the Q4 call and the Q1 call the gross margin has been affected largely around systems integration in the Services segment predominantly related to a couple large project deployments that have been occurring Q4 Q1.
We saw a little bit of an improvement in Q2.
We continue to expect Services gross margin longer-term to be in the 35% mid-30% range approximately 35% and the Product gross margin is stable despite some currency headwinds.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Good morning.
This is Joe Del Gaudio standing for Pierre.
I had a couple of questions.
One is in addition to the $2 billion you mentioned in buyback and tender offer are you expecting to buy anything else in the open market on a regular basis in addition to that? And the second question is if you can comment a bit on your guidance for next quarter it seems a bit conservative and low in terms of sequential growth.
Thank you.
...question first.
The – what we've guided to at the end of Q1 was approximately $600 million to $650 million a quarter representing about $2.5 billion of buyback.
Inclusive of the $2 billion tender we now intend to repurchase approximately $3.5 billion in 2015.
So after the legal cooling-off period at the conclusion of the tender we expect to be back in the open market.
And Q3 guidance? Q3 guidance I'm not sure if you were referencing top line or bottom line so I'll address both.
Q3 guidance top line clearly over-performance versus expectations.
Our expectations in Q2 is driving some of that.
And from an earnings perspective it's really similar to Q2 and the incremental sales and associated gross margin driving the EPS range.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tavis McCourt with Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Greg and Gino.
Nice quarter.
I guess another question on the Silver Lake capital.
Should we view that as specifically being earmarked for acquisitions? Or I guess the other way to answer that is should we think about it any differently in terms of how the balance sheet will look or how the cash balance will look exiting next year than we would've thought about it previously? And then in terms of LTE the revenue rec of $100 million this year remind me I've kind of lost track in terms of what's been announced on LTE.
Where would that leave you in terms of LTE backlog exiting this year? Thanks.
...LTE first.
We still estimate that we will achieve the approximately $100 million in Public Safety LTE revenue in this year.
We expect – we'll be focused on the existing deployments and revenue derived from them the two in the Middle East and in LA.
So while we're not guiding for next year we expect the Public Safety LTE revenue in 2016 to expand at a reasonable clip of which details will follow.
On Silver Lake Gino talked about our balance sheet.
So we are in a net debt position exiting Q2.
We clearly have a lot of capacity in capital hence our intention to commence a tender.
And even after the share repurchase that Gino outlined which could be as much as $3.5 billion this year all-in we have firepower remaining given the earnings and cash flow generation of the business moving forward to do more.
I think Silver Lake brings us organic and inorganic opportunity and we will continue to look at acquisitions that may make sense particularly in software or Smart Public Safety and Services.
So I think it strengthens our hand pretty nicely.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And if I could have an operational follow-up.
The Europe business obviously you're lapping tough comps.
Number one is there anything else going on there besides tough comps? And then secondly do have enough visibility into the rev rec from the backlog to have a feeling of when that geography could stabilize or start to grow again? Well Europe/Africa has done great for us in the prior three-year periods.
It does have macroeconomic headwinds today as well as the biggest project we've ever had in the history of the company for Norway as it starts to wind down.
So it was just about negative 1% or negative 2% normalized for FX.
I still think that Manuel and the team are doing a nice job all in both on the system side as well as professional commercial radio.
As we think about going into next year there will be a more significant wind-down of Norway's revenue recognition probably about $80 million of revenue headwinds out of that region in 2016 over this prior-year period.
But overall we feel good about the opportunities that are in front of us.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Paul Silverstein with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
This is Greg (25:59) for Paul.
I appreciate taking my question.
Just two quick questions on the FX impact to revenue can you just talk about the pricing impact specifically is discounting more of a factor in the past quarter than it has been? And then around the OpEx tailwind from FX can you provide some clarity on numbers or some type of contribution? Thank you.
Sure.
The FX impact on pricing depends on regional specifics.
There is some impact in Latin America on pricing.
We haven't really seen any margin erosion or ASP reductions so we've been containing the FX pressure at least on pricing.
With respect to the FX impact in budgets I think was the second question obviously interrelated both questions.
What we've said in the past is that we expected an EPS impact of about $0.05 to $0.10 for the year with respect to currency movement with FX impacting BGM or reducing – the $175 million reduction year-over-year in cost approximately a third of that is a result of the stronger dollar.
If we look at our BGM profile about 40% of it right now is denominated in something other than USD.
So in conjunction with the Services business and our efforts around moving to low-cost centers we've built in a hedge for FX movement so it really doesn't impact the bottom line as much as it does the top line.
I think that on the revenue FX impact it's about $50 million in Q2.
We anticipate it being about $50 million in Q3 and on the full year given the spot rate it's about $190 million.
I think that the only other thing I'd comment is I think the more pronounced FX pressure have been a contributory factor to the compressed results in Latin America in particular.
But we're managing it accordingly and it's incorporated into the overall guidance we're providing.
Sales &amp; Marketing</span></strong> And along that line as we continue to monitor pricing ASPs have been holding as Gino indicated so we haven't really seen it affect product pricing so to say as Greg mentioned just really the buying power because of Latin America being U.S.
dollar-denominated for our projects and the impact of the currency there locally.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
This is Ashwin on behalf of Rod.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to go back to the discussion around Silver Lake.
Back in February you guys already talked about some of the growth initiatives in the Services segment and some of the focus areas for you.
I was wondering if you kind of identified new areas of initiatives or new technologies that you need to develop that correlate to this partnership with Silver Lake.
I think that – good question.
Thank you.
As we said in February we're emphasizing Smart Public Safety Solutions as well as Services.
And I think the Silver Lake partnership is right in the sweet spot of extending and accelerating our existing strategy in this regard.
I think they bring significant expertise in technology products and information solutions.
They're smart they're savvy I think they'll help us on surgical M&amp;A as well both in terms of looking at the funnel of opportunity and executing on good deals potentially to supplement and complement what we already have there.
We've been acquiring already.
We did an analytics company a few months ago.
We did a command-and-control software company with Emergency CallWorks that's gone very well.
We did a push-to-talk interoperable software company with Twisted Pair.
So I think Silver Lake will – I think of it – them as accelerating and extending what we already have.
We're bringing in new talent into the company.
We have a new CIO and many of the people in IT are new.
Tom Guthrie who runs Smart Public Safety Solutions has come in through an acquisition with Twisted Pair.
I feel very good about the relationship the capacity and the technology savvy that I think will be complementary to what we're doing already.
Is it fair to characterize this as – your strategy as going after more tuck-in acquisitions rather than making any big ones? I think that's probably fair but I would say that if there's something more material and it's compelling and accretive we'll consider that too so exciting times for what we're doing going forward.
Okay.
Thanks.
Just last question on public on police video do you see that as a growth opportunity maybe next year or even later? And do you think you need – do you have all the technologies necessary to benefit from any spending there? Just to make sure I understood was your question around video? Yes police video.
Yeah I think video is a very compelling opportunity for us in many ways.
I mean you see front-and-center all of the rhetoric and narrative around body cameras and capturing video information at an incident with first responders combining it with their communications.
Video is one of the critical components in our Smart Public Safety Solutions strategy not just the edge devices that may capture it but the analytics aggregation dissemination and pushing of that data and the high-bandwidth video into a first responder to a full-fledged complementary converged device.
So I think video is very important to what we're doing going forward.
I see it as growing in importance.
And I think that will be also front-and-center with the value proposition that we engage Silver Lake on.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
A clarification first if you can just comment on the split of infrastructure versus device sales for the quarter in terms of their growth trajectory.
And then it looks like you're well on your way to hitting or even maybe exceeding the $175 million OpEx savings for this year.
Can you comment on the potential for that number to go higher both for this year and then any incremental opportunities for savings into next year or do you feel like you've largely exhausted the opportunity for savings once you get through this program? I think on the cost side first I think I would characterize the $175 million of cost reductions this year as probably in the seventh or eighth inning of our journey on cost reductions.
Clearly the majority of them are behind us.
And I think the team has done a really good job not just cutting expense but restructuring the business in a more thoughtful and simple way doing things that we don't need to do after selling the enterprise business getting after footprint capacity requirement duplication.
There might be a little bit more there going forward.
We'll always be prudent on looking at the cost structure.
But as we pivot now and especially with today's announcement with Silver Lake I think of this company's trajectory going forward more about growth more about investment and more about expansion.
Simona this is Gino.
On the device versus infrastructure devices in Q2 contracted slightly and infrastructure was up systems were up.
Importantly though devices in North America were up.
The contraction's really due to Latin America and the other geographies not North America.
Thanks Gino.
And infrastructure in North America was that up as well? Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan (sic) [Brian] Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi guys.
So I guess we can also look at Silver Lake investment today as really kind of a change in strategy.
At one point you'd been considering potential sale of the business.
Looking at this clearly you're moving in the direction of growing your business.
Is that a fair statement? I don't think that's a fair statement.
I think our focus has always been on growing the business and adding capacity and competency.
I think Brian it's a logical extension of the path that we've outlined which is: optimizing our balance sheet which is a big part of today; improving the operating and the financial performance of the company which is also a big part of today; building backlog which gives us momentum for growth.
So I look at this as a continuation of what's been my focus and management's focus which is growing this company.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then could you give me an update on FirstNet where you see that standing? And then also can you talk about your view of the importance of lower frequency radios and their stickiness to the business relative to perhaps the idea of using voice-over-IP over LTE at some point in the future as your main communication source for voice? Thanks.
Yeah.
On FirstNet I think we continue to work very closely with them.
We're actively participating and engaging with them through the draft RFP process.
By their own articulation I think this will carry forward into an RFP another RFP by the end of the year or early next year.
And I think that – I think their whole initiative will be very measured and elongated and we're staying closely in touch with them along the way.
As a sidebar in terms of LA-RICS and that Public Safety LTE deployment I think we remain on track.
And Bob Schassler and his team have done a nice job accelerating what we need to get implemented by the requisite deadlines of that contract.
In terms of your last point on voice-over-LTE we've been specific in pointing out that there's voice-over-LTE and then there's mission-critical voice-over-LTE.
And we believe that mission-critical voice communications that are embedded in these private networks for LMR have a long long life.
And Public Safety LTE if you will and instantiations therein are additive to the LMR business both domestically and internationally.
So we feel good about our position and we'll monitor it going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thanks for the question.
I joined a bit late so maybe this was answered.
But I just wanted to clarify what's the best way of understanding the seasonality of operating margins in Q3 and Q4 because I was previously under the kind of impression that Q3 gets back and Q4 rises and Q2 dips.
But that doesn't sound like that's how you wanted to model it this year.
So is it something that happened in Q2 that we should be aware of that helped margins maybe? That's the first question.
Second one is once this tender offer on share repurchases is done what's the best way of thinking about the ongoing buybacks? You were kind of modeling it more smoothly through the end of 2016 at current run rates there's obviously going to be a step down in the share count.
I just want to make sure I get that right.
Thanks.
I'll – Kulbinder this is Gino.
On the margin question our expectation for margin in Q3 and in Q4 is in line with what we've seen in prior certainly last year and in prior periods.
Okay.
And I think on seasonality I believe that our expectations on the second half of this year are generally comparable with last year.
Okay.
On the tender as Gino mentioned earlier we'll see how it shakes out.
And after the tender closes out there will be the opportunity for us to enter into after the tender is completed in an open market capacity as we evaluate that accordingly.
But just to be clear Greg on that point you remain committed to ongoing share repurchases in a sense thanks to free cash flow being distributed beyond this as well right? Yes.
No change to the capital allocation framework that we outlined.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Good quarter.
Hey Gino real quick you'd mentioned that after the tender is over you're going to have to take a timeout according to the rules.
How long is that going to be in effect for? It's 10 business days Keith.
Oh just 10 days.
Easy enough.
Good.
And then if you can just drill down a little bit deeper into the North American business up 6%.
It's another good quarter for you guys there.
Can you provide a little bit more color on where that strength is coming from? Is it the PCR business? Is it the federal business? Just a little more color there please.
Sales &amp; Marketing</span></strong> Hey Keith.
This is Mark.
Actually the strength has been across the board.
As we'd mentioned earlier we've been getting strength in the systems business as well as the device business.
The PCR business last quarter was relatively flat but it had been growing prior to that.
And again if you think about overall North America growth has been 4% 6% and 5% the last three quarters so a little stronger than what – or it's certainly at the high end of our expectations.
The federal business has also grown the last two quarters.
And we expect it to grow again in the second half and to have modest growth again for the full year.
So don't want to declare victory yet but as we said we thought that the narrow-banding effect had worn off and it looks like North America even given when we talk about North America they're facing some FX headwinds of about $20 million in Canada but across the board seems to be good growth and solid if you will pipeline to where we're looking at the future.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Genovese with MKM Partners.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Thanks a lot for taking the question.
First on the Silver Lake investment I'm just trying to understand what additional business opportunities or end markets or product areas will this investment allow you to target? I'm just – I'm confused about these new business opportunities what they are.
I don't think Michael I don't think they're new business opportunities.
I think the Silver Lake deal is more about bringing additional capacity for us to go achieve them and go seize them.
As somebody mentioned earlier this is exactly consistent with – we outlined in our Financial Analyst Day in February.
So this is all about doubling down on software and services more specifically Smart Public Safety Software and our Services business.
I don't think it's new.
I think it's a reaffirmation of our commitment and an acceleration therein.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then the second point is that with this $2 billion tender offer it's obviously going to reduce the share count above and beyond what we already thought but yet we're getting the EPS guidance that's consistent with before.
It doesn't seem to take the reduction in the share count into – I mean how is that taken into account in your guide? In the guidance – so it's important to note and as I said earlier the $2.5 billion in what we've guided to for the year and now it's $3.5 billion but it's also important to note that from an accounting perspective the Silver Lake investment the shares represented in that investment will also be included in EPS.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks.
I appreciate the clarifications.
Thanks.
I will now turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
We made a number of forward-looking statements during the call.
That's including statements relating to the investment by Silver Lake and the use of proceeds and benefits thereof; the intent to commence the tender offer; our intent to maintain liquidity and investment grade; outlooks relating to sales EPS cost savings operating leverage operating cash flow and free cash flow as well as gross margins; effective and cash tax rates currency; Public Safety LTE sales; regional growth; acquisitions and capital return share repurchases as well as backlog.
Thanks for joining us today and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be made available over the Internet in approximately three hours.
The Web address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be available approximately three hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The web address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the line will be open for your questions following the presentation.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our 2015 third quarter earnings call.
With me today are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Mark Moon Executive Vice President and President of Sales; and Bruce Brda Executive Vice President Systems and Products.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Mark and Bruce will join for the Q&amp;A portion.
We have posted an earnings presentation and news release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation and during the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Information about factors that could cause such differences can be found in this morning's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the risk factors section of our Q3 2015 report on Form 10-Q and our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
And with that I'd like to now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep and good morning.
And thanks for joining us today.
I'd like to make a few opening comments about the third quarter and the overall business before Gino takes us through the results and outlook.
First Q3 was another solid quarter.
The core business remains resilient in several areas.
North America sales grew 5% the fourth consecutive quarter of growth.
And as expected Asia Pac returned to growth with a very strong quarter while the Middle East continues to expand robustly.
Second our operating discipline and cost initiatives are delivering excellent results.
During the quarter we generated 13% growth in operating earnings and 32% growth in earnings per share.
And we're now on track for approximately $200 million in OpEx savings for the full year 2015.
And finally our focus on investments in managed and support services smart public safety and public safety LTE continued to gain momentum.
Our managed and support services business grew solidly in constant currency.
Our recent acquisition of Emergency CallWorks for Next Generation 9-1-1 is performing better than expected and we're hosting new public safety LTE trials in every region in the world.
We're encouraged about the growth opportunities these areas represent and we'll continue to pursue new initiatives in these areas.
I'll now turn the call over to Gino to provide additional details on Q3 results and outlook before returning to provide some closing thoughts.
Thanks Greg.
Third quarter revenue was $1.4 billion down 1% versus the prior year quarter.
On a constant currency basis sales grew 3%.
Backlog is up $681 million versus last year.
GAAP operating earnings were $231 million while non-GAAP operating earnings were $292 million.
These non-GAAP earnings are 21% of sales representing a 250-basis-point improvement from the year ago quarter.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.63 compared to $0.27 in the third quarter of 2014.
Non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.82 which represents a 32% year-over-year increase.
This growth was driven by our ongoing cost reduction and simplification initiatives as well as reduced share count.
For the remainder of the call we will reference non-GAAP financial results including those in our outlook unless otherwise noted.
Products segment Q3 sales were $925 million which is flat versus the prior year but up 3% when adjusting for currency impact.
Q3 products segment operating income was $221 million or 24% of sales up $46 million versus the prior year quarter driven primarily by our cost reduction.
Products segment backlog ended the quarter at $1.3 billion up $171 million versus last year and up $65 million sequentially reflecting the sixth consecutive quarterly increase.
This increase was driven by North America.
Q3 Services revenue was $497 million down 3%.
Excluding the impact of currency and iDEN the Services business grew 3%.
Services operating income was $71 million or 14% of revenue.
Lower sales volume and systems integration margin related to a few large projects were partially offset by lower OpEx.
Gross margin in managed and support services as well as smart public safety were up.
Services backlog is $4.6 billion up $509 million versus last year and down $69 million sequentially inclusive of a $60 million currency revaluation customers continued to sign long-term Services contracts to upgrade maintain and manage their networks.
Total company operating expenses from continuing operations were $396 million down $39 million or 9% from the year ago quarter driven primarily by continued cost reduction activity including the expansion of lower cost shared service centers that have benefited from a stronger dollar.
We now expect full-year OpEx to be about $1.58 billion a $200 million reduction from the prior year.
Other income and expense in Q3 was $34 million compared to $29 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our Q3 effective tax rate was approximately 35%.
We expect the full year 2015 effective tax rate to be approximately 33%.
We also continue to expect our cash tax rate to remain at approximately 15% through 2019.
Cash flow from operations in the third quarter was $300 million an increase of $415 million versus last year.
Free cash flow was $250 million.
The improvement in cash generation was primarily driven by lower pension payments and improved earnings.
We remain on track for approximately $1 billion of operating cash flow and $800 million of free cash flow for the full year.
We repurchased $2.1 billion of stock and paid out $70 million in dividends during the quarter.
This resulted in a net debt position of $2.2 billion at the end of Q3.
Moving to regional results North America revenue grew 5% ahead of expectations once again under-pinned by strong Product and Services growth.
We posted solid growth in both state and local as well as U.S.
federal business.
Underlying demand remained solid for our products and services and the pipeline and backlog remain healthy.
Latin America was down on challenging macroeconomic conditions the impact of a stronger dollar and continued iDEN declines.
While these variables were assumed in our prior outlook the 22% decline was more than expected.
The continuing rise of the dollar particularly in the second half of the year is having a more pronounced translation impact in Brazil and transactional impact in countries where U.S.
dollar-denominated sales have resulted in large double-digit price increases to our customers.
The Europe and Africa region was down 23%; the region declined due to FX the Norway implementation wind-down and weakness in Eastern Europe.
Moving to Asia Pac the business returned to growth in the quarter posting an increase of 14% and was up 24% in constant currency terms.
We expect growth in Q4 due to healthy backlog growth and a strong pipeline.
Finally the Middle East region again grew strong double digits and backlog is up over 100% versus the year-ago quarter to approximately $400 million.
I'd also like to share some brief segment highlights.
The Products segment growth of 3% in constant currency was driven primarily by North America and Asia Pac.
We also delivered meaningful profitability expansion in this segment improving operating margins by 500 basis points.
We continue to innovate drive down costs and simplify our business processes.
Some of the Q3 product highlights include launching our Digital Evidence Management Solution which combines our secured cloud-based CommandCentral Vault software with voice communication body-worn video voice recording and emergency alerts delivered in one compact device.
The recent APX 8000 digital radio launch has far exceeded initial expectations for new product revenue.
This quad band device includes advanced Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionality which acts as a personal area network and serves as a platform for future APX devices.
Additionally we remain on track for a 40% SKU reduction by year end furthering our drive for simplification.
The Services segment grew 2% in constant currency and was up 3% when excluding iDEN and FX.
Focus areas of managed and support services and smart public safety were up in constant currency.
Our recent acquisition of Emergency CallWorks which is a converged solution for Next Generation 911 call taking that can be deployed in the cloud or on premise continues to outperform our expectations including several Tier 1 customer wins.
Our Public Safety LTE business continues to gain momentum.
In addition to the two international deployments and the LA-RICS deployment we also have multiple large trials ongoing with international police forces testing and utilizing our unique public safety LTE solution.
This includes interoperability between LTE and LMR networks enabled by our WAVE technology third-party mobile applications and broadband devices.
Now turning to our outlook we expect total company sales for Q4 to decline 6% to 8% or down 3% to 5% including the impact of currency.
The weakness in Q4 is driven by incremental currency headwinds which we now expect to be approximately $65 million and further macroeconomic weakness in Latin America and Eastern Europe.
We now expect full year revenue to be down approximately 3% or up 1% in constant currency.
We expect non-GAAP EPS of between $1.45 and $1.50 for Q4 and $3.20 to $3.25 for the full year.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
Let me close with a few thoughts.
First Q3 was another solid quarter relative to our sales and earnings expectations as we performed well on a number of measures: revenue growth in North America revenue growth in Asia Pac and revenue growth in the Middle East.
That said we saw increased softness and economic uncertainty in both Latin America and Eastern Europe which are tempering our views of Q4.
Second our execution around cost savings and capital return continues to demonstrate strong results.
We're on track for OpEx reductions of about $200 million this year and we're planning on $125 million more in OpEx reductions for next year.
We purchased over $2 billion of our shares during Q3 which now brings us to a reduction of nearly half of our share count just over the past four years.
Based on these efforts we expect to see sizable free cash flow per share expansion as we move into 2016 and beyond.
And finally we're seeing progress in our investments in innovation.
Strong initial revenues associated with the launch of the new flagship APX 8000 digital radio as well as the Digital Evidence Management Solution which combines our secure cloud-based CommandCentral software with voice communications body-worn video and voice recording all-in-one device.
This is an embodiment of the way we think about innovation in bringing together devices software and services in a streamlined solution that meets the needs and use cases of our customer base.
I'll now turn it back over to Shep.
Thanks Greg.
Before we begin taking questions I would like to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up so we can accommodate as many people as possible.
Operator would you please remind our callers on the line how to ask a question.
And we'll take our first question from Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
My question is for Greg.
I mean in terms of what's tempering the cautiousness for the fourth quarter revenue guidance in particular Greg just versus three months ago can you may be breakdown in order of importance what the drivers are because I looked at the exposures you have to South America and Eastern Europe and they are not massive in terms of the overall revenues.
And also the currency moves have also been happening a fair amount in the first half as well.
So just versus three months ago can you speak about what's changed and then also on the – there was a mention there of price increases.
Is that quite broad-based where you guys have been hit by currency over the last year? Or is that quite a minor impact? If you could just clarify that that would be great.
So Kulbinder.
So the way we think about this is we've seen incremental pressure in the second half of this year.
I actually mentioned this at the Bernstein conference in September.
We started to see pressure in Latin America and Eastern Europe in the August-September timeframe.
What's happened is it's become more pronounced.
I would dimensionalize it the following way.
Think of it as approximately $100 million of incremental net pressure in the second half.
I'd say $30 million of that is foreign exchange Kulbinder $50 million is further deterioration in Latin America.
Remember 80% of our revenues in Latin America are U.S.-denominated and about $20 million is further deterioration in Europe Eastern Europe where all of our sales are U.S.-denominated.
Now some of this was mitigated in Q3 by the over performance and strong performance in both North America and Asia Pac but that's how we dimensionalize and see the pressures in the second half of the year.
I think to your point around pricing where we are U.S.-denominated and we've had that kind of pressure we're seeing more of a price disparity with some of our portfolio.
But in Q3 and Q4 we're taking action to adjust accordingly.
But that's what's happened over the second half.
And then maybe just on the operating cost.
The OpEx reduction for next year is that a new kind of program or is that always envisaged? I've kind of lost count? That is a new reduction of $125 million for next year.
The $200 million it just represents the continued progress and solid execution that we announced.
There's nothing new about it.
It's more of a continuation around platforming moving from high cost to low cost eliminating duplication and redundancies efficiencies around the SKU reduction that Brda is leading on product simplification.
But it's manifesting it very well and the $125 million reductions for next year are off of the full year OpEx base this year so more efficiencies and more effectiveness.
Thank you.
Very clear thanks.
Thanks Kulbinder.
We will take our next question from Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Yeah Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
This is Ashwin on behalf of Rod.
Could you comment on your growth expectations for 2016? Maybe walk us through some of the drivers that could get you back on growth path for next year? Sure Ashwin.
Well first of all I think it's important that our view of this business being a low-to-mid single-digit growth business in a normalized environment remains unchanged.
I remind you that we talked about some specifics about next year.
Norway revenue as the largest project in our company's history winds down $80 million of lower revenue in 2016 versus 2015.
The good news to that is it's a very very low margin revenue.
So that's the good news associated with that.
The second headwind is the $40 million of iDEN as expected next year in 2016 over this year.
And as of today from a spot rate FX standpoint we probably have about $40 million of additional FX in next year.
Now when you put all those ingredients into the blender that results in probably about $60 million of pressure in Q1.
We're not going to guide Ashwin on the full year until next quarter's call but I think it is important to note that North America we do expect to grow in 2016 at comparable levels to 2015 as they've been building backlog and executing strongly and consistently throughout 2015.
Thank you.
If I may have a follow-up honestly...
Sure.
...I don't think I heard any target for next year or reiteration of the $100 million for this year.
Could you just clarify that? Apologies if I missed that.
You mean on the cost reduction? No.
On LTE revenue for 2015 and 2016.
Got you.
So we still expect to achieve our approximate $100 million in Public Safety LTE revenues for this year.
Lot of good work by Bob Schassler and the team on LA-RICS specifically as that project completes this year.
We haven't guided specifically on a number for public safety LTE revenues in 2016 but it's fair to say Ashwin we expect it to grow next year as we continue some work on LA-RICS but also build out the larger implementations in the two Middle East countries that we're working on.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Tim Long with BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Can we just get an update on you had the investment from Silver Lake last quarter.
If you can give us an update on some of those initiatives that that investment was going to be seeding around partnerships investments acquisitions; maybe just give us a sense what's going on with that.
And then I had a follow-up.
Sure Tim.
The engagement with Silver Lake's been great.
They have operationally connected into the business in a pretty seamless way with folks.
We're working on a number of work streams.
I would categorize them in the consistent areas that I outlined when we first did the deal.
I would say that we're partnering around managed and support services as well as smart public safety and specifically some of the software areas.
There's also an initiative we're launching with them around cost of goods or what I would call above gross margin both product and services.
So operationally they've interconnected very well with the management team here on a number of work streams.
In terms of inorganic they'll work with us closely as we evaluate things that make sense or may make sense in adjacent areas that we would feel are compelling and accretive.
But so far so good.
Early days but very pleased with their engagement.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
And then Gino just to follow-up on the gross margin line and I think you mentioned the SKU reduction.
We've been seeing the gross margin slide lower the last few years here.
Could you just talk a little bit about whether it's SKU reduction or what else can help reverse that trend we've seen in gross margins? Thanks.
Sure Tim.
The gross margin pressure we've seen this year is primarily related to large systems integration projects a couple of projects whose margin is lower than our overall margin.
If we look at margin across products it's comparable in the main to prior periods as well as services Managed and Support services Smart Public Safety those margins remain healthy.
We expect gross margins to improve over time as the projects large projects roll off by the end of this year.
And we also as importantly perhaps more importantly expect operating margin improvement as we expand our services portfolio and services business.
Okay thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
A couple of questions.
Just the first one around FirstNet with the RFP coming up here and vendor selection next year.
Can you just update us on how you're positioned and what your expectations are and who you think you're up against? Well I think Simona we'll continue to evaluate it closely to see ultimately what requirements are codified in the final RFP targeted by the end of the year.
Our operational engagement with FirstNet has gone well.
Particularly I would recognize them and thank them both FirstNet and NTIA as we've worked all hands on deck on the LA-RICS build out and initial network completion.
So I think that's gone well.
They're outlining a set of requirements.
We had a meeting with them a few weeks ago.
We stay closely connected with them as they ultimately determine both the business model the framework for the network rollout and we'll determine after the final RFP is let how we participate and choose to compete.
That will be a 2016 decision to determine how we respond.
And I think those responses are due either Q2 or Q3 of next year.
Thank you.
And then on the body camera launch a couple of weeks ago can you just help us think through how meaningful that could be from a revenue perspective for the company.
In particular how much of that is incremental versus substitutive to your existing camera resales? And how big is the opportunity potentially for adjacent software or infrastructure sales kind of around and in support of the cameras themselves? So Simona I think of it as an incremental opportunity and I say that because even though we sell or resell a body camera today I think sales have been pretty muted and not very meaningful.
This is exactly the way we have thought about innovation in that we're less interested in competing in commodity hardware.
We're more interested in a value-add differentiation integrated solution.
So we took the back-end around content management the cloud-based solution around CommandCentral Vault obviously in a secure communication's model where we're integrating it all into a speaker mic.
First responders have too much on their belt and too much on their body.
So a consolidated integrated encrypted superior solution in our view was the way to go.
Software services and all integrated in one device.
So we feel good about it and I view it largely as incremental.
I think the addressable market I would characterize as maybe $250 million of $300 million.
And that's more restricted looking at the addressable market size of the body worn camera.
But I do think it also lends itself to your point into potential adjacencies around software as a service.
That product will be shipping in a matter of months so we'll update you accordingly.
But we feel very good about that product roll-out.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein.
Hey.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Just sharing a thought on your guidance for Q4.
So the number you put out is a bit below what your full year guidance was implying and slightly below where expectations were.
But looking at it sequentially it's at the end of the day your fourth quarter that looks very reasonable.
And when I look at the last couple of years you've had like a strong seasonality into the year and like a very strong Q4.
And that was a fairly new seasonal pattern.
So my question is does that mean that this very strong Q4 patterns the general pattern that we've seen in the last couple of years was kind of due to very temporary effects? And going forward we should expect more like normal seasonality followed by (27:52)? I think to your point that when you look at suspending Q4 for a minute and looking at second half it's generally close to the guidance that we gave normalized for foreign exchange.
I mean said another way we still expect growth for the full year in constant currency.
And the EPS is within the range we gave at the beginning of the year and just recently a quarter ago although obviously now we're targeting it toward the lower end of that.
I think.
Pierre you'll still see generally normal seasonality of the business that's reflective along traditional linearity.
If I take North America specifically even though we're not anticipating growth for North America in Q4 in part to your point that's on a very strong comp a year ago and North America is performing exactly as we expected actually so is Asia Pac but North America for the full year 2015 it's actually performed stronger than we expected for the first three quarters.
They are growing backlog and building backlog along the way and as I mentioned North America which is 65% or 70% of our revenue we expect to grow in 2016 at comparable levels to 2015.
They are executing very strong and very consistently with Jack Molloy and his team.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Paul Silverstein with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Fahad (29:36) in for Paul.
I apologize I have a few questions.
So first off on the OpEx reduction what portion of the OpEx upside was driven by favorable FX tailwinds? Of the $200 million for this year about $80 million is favorable FX which is a good guy a tailwind.
But commensurately incentives are an $80 million headwind so they kind of offset each other Fahad (30:07) on the FX.
We're taking $200 million of real cost out of the business this year.
Got it.
So looking at 1Q 2016 where hopefully FX is somewhat more stable do you still foresee this $80 million of a tailwind or does that go away in (30:28)? No I think FX is an issue for us given year-on-year comps.
As I mentioned the spot rate as of this week it's $40 million of incremental.
I think that manifests itself more in Q1 and Q2 of next year and then should normalize based on spot rates today.
But having said that we're taking another $125 million of costs out in 2016 irrespective of fluctuations of FX.
Got it.
Thank you.
Then on your share buyback can you help us understand your share buyback for 4Q and for 1Q 2016? How should we be looking at that? Well Gino mentioned last call that we were targeting approximately $3.5 billion of repurchase for the full year 2015.
That's unchanged.
We obviously executed on the tender and took a big chunk of shares out this past quarter.
I think going forward as the balance sheet's been normalized I think you should think about capital return along the lines of the framework that we've outlined of operating cash flow which is 50% repurchase or M&amp;A 30% dividend 20% CapEx is a framework of the way you should think about it given the fact that we've normalized the balance sheet with the tender and have achieved net debt.
Okay.
Now going back to a macro view looking at your strength in Middle East and looking at the falling oil prices do you see that as a headwind going into 2016? Do think that will change the buying patterns of your customers there and elsewhere which are predominantly based on oil imports – exports sorry? Well I think for sure that's what's tempered our view of Q4.
I don't necessarily see that changing going into 2016.
So we will be guarded and measured and we'll update you on 2016.
As it relates to kind of a region specifically for us we talked about North America and the color around 2016.
Gino mentioned we have robust backlog in the Middle East.
So even though there's pressure on oil price reductions largely in that region we've got healthy backlog and very good visibility I think into 2016 for that region.
Latin America we don't see changing anytime soon.
So I think our views will remain tempered exiting Q4 and into 2016.
And Europe I would dimensionalize around the Eastern Europe issue that we highlighted.
And the only other thing worth mentioning specific to us of course is the Norway wind down on revenue.
But that's kind of how we see it going forward.
Okay.
And lastly looking at some of these integrated video solutions that you sold can you give us an idea in terms of like the number of opportunities deal pipelines that are in the foreseeable future in your pipeline? Just to kind of give us a sense on how we should be seeing these opportunities maturing over the next year.
I think actually Fahad (33:49) I think it'll be better to update you a quarter from now since we just made the announcement and the product rolls out in the next 60 days.
What I will tell you is the initial feedback with the Chiefs Conference here in Chicago was strong.
It was strong because they like an integrated device they like the fact that it has content management for crisp extraction on evidentiary and storage requirements and they like that it's consolidating and thinking about and sensitive to what a first responder carries on his or her chest or belt.
So I think it's a little premature to kind of signal the pipeline and the quantification of it.
We'll update you in a quarter but the initial feedback and engagement has been very good.
And we're in conversations with a number of customers right now.
If I could follow up on that.
So who are the purchasing decision makers? Are these the sheriffs the police office units? Or are these CIOs that are traditionally not the people that you've sold into? Is the buying pattern for these solutions different from your traditional channels that you sold into? I think it's both.
I think it's the traditional communications group as well as IT.
The IT and CIO are becoming more and more involved with the procurement of public safety given the complexity of these IP networks the sophistication of software.
And that's a good thing because our engagement as we think about North America in particular we've had our direct sales force talking smart public safety talking about managed services talking about the command center talking about Next Generation 9-1-1.
So it's not an unnatural extension it's a logical extension given our distribution and go-to-market strategy.
All right.
Next question please? And we'll go next to Mike Koban with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Or quite a few of them have actually been answered so what I have left is really just kind of housekeeping.
I was just wondering if you guys would – I know you've said it.
I think I missed the number but would you please repeat the backlog number that you guys have for this year? The backlog number as of the end of Q3? Inc.</span></strong> Yes yes.
Excuse me.
Yeah that's correct.
$6 billion and the growth year-over-year was 13% or $680 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
Growth in the Products segment for the sixth straight quarter and Services growth was basically flat including a $60 million FX adjustment.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And then did you provide any or would you provide any free cash flow expectations for the full year of 2015? For 2015 we said we remain at free cash flow of approximately $800 million and operating cash flow of approximately $1 billion.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's all I needed.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
As it relates to the gross margin improvement in Products as I look at it outside of fourth quarter it's probably one of your best quarters in a while.
Do we look at that percent of roughly 57% is that roughly sustainable over the next several quarters? Is that a new level we should be thinking about? I think you need to look at the composition of Q3 and the performance of North America and specifically some of the products in North America.
We mentioned the APX 8000 launch and the market reception to the APX 8000 launch.
So the profile in Q3 the mix skewed a bit to North America and skewed a bit to full-featured products.
Got it.
I appreciate that color.
Okay.
And then as we look – follow up question for you on Eastern Europe.
As you looked at what developed over the quarter I guess if you could provide a bit more color on the pressure in Eastern Europe and expectations of that perhaps beyond just the fourth quarter? Clearly currency continued – the ruble continued to devalue 90% year over year incremental 30% in the second half of the year.
So we saw a continuing pressure.
Greg mentioned that in Eastern Europe we're predominantly USD-based so we're seeing some pricing pressures particularly at the low end.
And we expect that to continue based on macroeconomic conditions.
We mentioned oil.
There was a question around oil as well as political turmoil right now in Russia.
So we expect that to continue into 2016.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew DeGasperi with Macquarie Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Just quickly in Asia Pac really good results.
I was wondering if you could maybe break it down by region where was your strongest area? Thanks.
Actually we have performed very consistently in Asia Pac throughout the year.
We exited last year with good backlog and good visibility to pipeline.
We talked about still being down year-over-year in the first half but returning to growth in the third quarter and fourth quarter which is exactly what we've done.
And that's really despite some FX pressure in Australia probably about $35 million and about $50 million of FX pressure throughout the region.
In terms of the overall region we've actually performed fairly consistently throughout the region.
We think about it and we talked about it in the past the region being China Australia and kind of the rest of Asia as kind of the composition.
That's continued to be pretty much the case.
We've had some declines as you know in Australia; again they've been facing the FX pressures.
China has continued to perform as expected for us so we were pleased with that.
And for the full year we think we will meet our expectations actually grow slightly in actual dollars and grow low double digits in constant currency so pleased with the execution throughout Asia.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to go back to the cost of goods initiative.
In the past you've talked a little bit about some platform strategies warehousing OEM strategies and now you're talking a little bit about Silver Lake and what they might be able to help you with.
Can you tell us what you've achieved thus far? What do you think is left? And what that can do to the broader business? Well and I'll have Bruce jump in on this too but I think that the SKU reduction work has gone exceptionally well we've talked about we're on track to reduce our SKUs by about 40%.
I think the platforming of the systems and product business led by Brda has gone very well to achieve economies of scale in cost of goods.
When we think of the cost of goods initiative or call it above gross margin I think the engagement with Silver Lake and work will yield higher benefit on Services above gross margin than necessarily Product above gross margin.
And as we think about the deployment of Services people we think about their utilization their load-balancing their productivity software and system and IT tools that we use to track the Services organization that are more sophisticated and capable today for MSI than even 18 months ago with utilizing software like Flexera and others around feature functionality and service deployment.
So I kind of look at that engagement with Silver Lake more yielding services above gross margin efficiencies than necessarily product cost of goods itself because of a lot of the work that we've done already.
Follow-up.
Last year in the 10-K when you did report the backlog.
I believe the percentage that was expected to be recognized in the next 12 months was 33%.
I think that was up from 32% the year prior.
Can you talk to how that percentage has trended during the first three quarters of the year if it's been to expectations if you've seen any big deviations in that percentage? Thanks.
Trending to expectations haven't seen any deviations.
And we will update you at the end of the year on our aging and expectations for 2016.
Yeah I think the stronger performance in North America through the first three quarters was really sales in the quarter that were orders converted to revenue in the quarter.
Our backlog aging has performed really as we've expected.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions.
I will return the floor back to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
As mentioned at the outset we've made a number of forward-looking statements during the call including outlook related to sales EPS cost operating leverage cash flow both operating and free cash flow and gross margins as well as effective and cash tax rates currency and growth by region and product as well as capital return and share repurchase and public safety LTE revenues.
That's it.
Thanks.
We look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
A replay of this call will be available over the Internet in approximately three hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good afternoon and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Motorola Solutions Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
The presentation material and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Motorola Solutions Investor Relations website.
In addition a replay of this call will be made available approximately three hours after the conclusion of this call over the Internet.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the line will be open for your questions following the presentation.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Dunlap you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Welcome to our 2015 Q4 earnings call.
With me today are Greg Brown Chairman and CEO; Gino Bonanotte Executive Vice President and CFO; Bruce Brda Executive Vice President Products and Services; and Jack Molloy Executive Vice President Worldwide Sales.
Greg and Gino will review our results along with commentary and Bruce and Jack will join for Q&amp;A.
We have posted an earnings presentation and news release at motorolasolutions.com/investor.
These materials include GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for your reference.
A number of forward-looking statements will be made during this presentation and during the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Information about factors that could cause such differences can be found in this afternoon’s earnings release in our earnings presentation and the comments made during this conference call and the risk factors and MD&amp;A section of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K Q3 report on Form 10-Q and in other reports that we have filed or furnished with the SEC.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Shep and good afternoon and thanks everybody for joining us.
I'd like to make a few opening comments before Gino takes us through the results and outlook.
First Q4 was actually a good quarter in terms of margin expansion and cash flow generation.
Managed and support services grew 7% adjusted for currency and North America also outperformed our expectations against the difficult prior year compare and we saw solid growth in Asia Pac.
Second when I think of the full year 2015 was a year of transformation and achievement that positions us well going forward.
We delivered $830 million of free cash flow took out over $210 million of operating costs returned $3.5 billion in capital to shareholders increased our quarterly dividend by 21% and improved the efficiency of our capital structure.
And finally last Friday we announced the close of Airwave acquisition which is a strong and important addition to our services franchise.
Airwave owns and operates one of the largest public safety radio networks in the world and will provide a platform to expand our managed services business on a global basis.
This business has significant managed services infrastructure and operational assets that could be leveraged for future growth opportunities in this space.
The addition of airwave increases our recurring revenue streams by 50% adds geographic diversification delivers another source of robust free cash flow and the transaction is cash and earnings accretive in year one.
I’ll now turn the call over Gino to provide additional details on Q4 results and outlook before returning to provide some closing thoughts.
Thank you Greg.
Good afternoon everyone.
Key Q4 highlights include revenue of $1.7 billion down 8% versus last year and down 5% in constant currency.
The primary drivers of the decline were currency and economic headwinds in Latin America and Eastern Europe.
In addition the Norway nationwide network transition from systems integration to managed services contributed to lower revenues.
Ending backlog was up $698 million versus last year and up $486 million sequentially.
Multi-year managed and support contracts continue to drive backlog growth.
GAAP operating earnings were $389 million.
Non-GAAP operating earnings were $458 million or 27% of sales representing a 70 basis point improvement in the prior year.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.56 compared to a loss of $4.02 in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to pension restructuring.
Non-GAAP EPS of $1.58 was up 26% year-over-year.
The EPS growth was driven primarily by cost reductions and lower share count due to repurchases.
For the remainder of the call we will reference non-GAAP financial measures including those in our outlook unless otherwise noted.
For the full-year revenue declined 3% but was flat in constant currency.
EBITDA grew 6% to $1.3 billion.
Operating earnings increased 230 basis points to 20.5% of sale.
Earnings per share grew 29% to $3.33 per share.
Free cash flow was $830 million and free cash flow per share was $4.11 which has grown double-digits since separation in 2011.
Moving to product segment results for the quarter Q4 product sales were $1.1 billion down 10% versus the prior year and down 7% in constant currency.
The decline is attributable primarily to FX and economic headwinds in Latin America and Eastern Europe.
Q4 product operating income was $340 million or 30% of sales.
Ending product segment backlog was $1.2 billion up $40 million versus last year.
The year-over-year backlog increase reflects growth in Asia-Pac the Middle East and North America offset by declines in Europe and Latin America.
Turning to services Q4 services revenue was $557 million down 3%.
Excluding currency impact in iDEN the services business grew 2%.
Managed and support services grew 7% in constant currency with growth in every region.
Services operating income was $118 million or 21% of revenue up $29 million from last year.
Services operating margins were up 580 basis points and improved gross margin and OpEx reductions.
As expected margin improvement was driven by the completion of several large systems installations including the Norway project.
Services backlog ended at $5.2 billion up $658 million versus last year and up $601 million sequentially.
Customers continued to sign long-term services contracts to upgrade maintain and manage their networks.
$340 million of this backlog increase was driven by our recent Public Safety LTE contract win in the United Kingdom.
Backlog was up solidly in all regions except Latin America.
Moving to Q4 operating expenses; total OpEx from continuing operations was $386 million down $45 million or 10% from the year-ago quarter driven primarily by continued cost reduction activities and a stronger dollar.
For the year OpEx is down $212 million or 12%.
The largest drivers of the decline include employee reductions in G&amp;A pension expense and favorability from currency.
We have now taken out over $550 million of OpEx in the last three years.
Q4 other income and expense was up $12 million to $51 million compared to the year-ago quarter.
The increase was due to additional interest expense.
Looking at taxes the Q4 effective tax rate was 31%.
Full year 2015 effective tax rate was 33%.
Our cash tax rate was 11% for 2015 and we continue to expect our cash tax rate to remain at approximately 15% through 2019.
Turning to cash flow; Q4 operating cash flow was $414 million and free cash flow was $370 million.
These results were driven by aggressive OpEx reductions and improved working capital efficiency.
We ended Q4 in a net debt position of $2.4 billion.
We also repurchased $179 million of stock at $69.23.
The lower buyback levels for the quarter were due to blackout restrictions for the Airwave transaction which was pending at the time.
Total capital return for the quarter was $239 million inclusive of dividends.
We also increased the dividend by 21% during Q4 to $0.41 per share.
Program to date we have repurchased $11 billion or 49% of our shares outstanding at an average price of $57.06 a share.
I’ll now provide our outlook for both Q1 and the full-year inclusive of Airwave.
Looking at Q1 we expect Q1 sales to decline 4% to 6% including currency which is expected to be $20 million of translational headwind.
This outlook includes approximately $55 million of revenue from Airwave.
The decline in Q1 is driven by three items: the Norway contract transition finishing the systems integration phase continued weakness in Latin America and currency headwinds.
We expect non-GAAP EPS between $0.37 and $0.42 per share.
For the full year we expect total company sales for 2016 to increase 5% to 7% including approximately $450 million of revenue associated with Airwave.
We expect operating expenses to be $1.45 billion down another $120 million versus 2015 inclusive of Airwave or $150 million in savings in the core business.
We expect adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $1.62 billion to $1.66 billion an increase of approximately 25%.
We expect EPS in the range of $4.45 to $4.65 per share an increase of approximately 30% versus 2015.
This EPS outlook reflects an average diluted share count of 170 million to 175 million shares.
We expect operating cash flow of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion and free cash flow of $825 million to $900 million resulting in free cash flow per share in the range of $4.75 to $5 per share.
Moving to Q4 regional results with comments on both Q4 and 2016.
North American Q4 was down 1% and flat in constant currency.
Services in North America grew 2% for the quarter.
For full-year 2015 North America posted 3% growth.
We’re pleased to finish 2015 with continued execution and expect 2016 sales growth to once again be in the low single digits as we improve sales coverage and capture value for new features and services.
In Q4 Latin America was down due to continued economic weakness a stronger dollar and a decline in iDEN.
Revenue declined $58 million or 42% with Brazil representing the largest decline.
Although we expect Latin America to be down in 2016 our outlook is for the decline to be much more concentrated in the first half of the year.
In Q4 Europe and Africa was down 21% excluding FX sales were down 14%.
The Norway transition to managed services and continued weakness in Eastern Europe were the primary contributors to this decline.
In 2016 we expect this region to grow due to the addition of Airwaves while the underlying business will see some headwinds in the first half as a result of the Norway integration completion Eastern Europe weakness and currency.
Asia Pac revenue declined 2% for the quarter but grew 6% in constant currency.
This region demonstrated signs of stabilization in the second half of 2015.
We expect revenue to be approximately flat for 2016 due to difficult prior year compare and economic volatility in China.
The Middle East region was down $2 million due to timing of systems integration of the major LTE business.
We expect strong growth in 2016 similar to 2015 with ongoing LTE deployments.
Moving forward the Middle East region will be incorporated into a new EMEA region.
I will close with a few segment highlights.
Our product segment continues to innovate improve time-to-market and optimize cost.
Our optimization and simplification results include successfully outsourcing our Penang manufacturing operations to San Mina and successfully reducing our SKU count at year-end by approximately 40%.
We launched new products and extended our technology leadership in Q4 including new devices which are purpose-built for commercial customers in hazardous locations.
Upgraded infrastructure software that improves the capability to sell software features and licensing applications which will be an important source of growth moving forward.
In parallel the services segment continues to demonstrate solid growth on a constant currency basis.
In addition our managed and support services business continues to win significant new business that is building multi-year backlog and recurring revenue streams.
Our primary services growth areas of managed and support services grew 7% in constant currency which reflects growth in every region.
We expect another year of solid growth in 2016.
The Smart Public Safety business continues to grow with new wins and deployments led by our Emergency CallWorks suite of software and services.
We extended our Public Safety LTE leadership with a country-wide Public Safety LTE win in the UK with an award value of $430 million excluding any potential devices and we’ve successfully demonstrated Public Safety LTE trials in several regions.
And in Q1 we closed the acquisition of Airwave which adds significant capabilities to our managed services business by providing a platform people systems and tools enabling the support of both LMR and LTE networks.
This transaction was funded with $675 million of additional debt as well as the use of foreign cash for the balance of the purchase price.
And finally the business is expected to continue to generate very attractive EBITDA and free cash flow for this foreseeable future.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to Greg.
Thanks Gino.
Let me close with a few thoughts.
First despite headwinds presented by a stronger dollar and areas of macroeconomic weakness we delivered solid growth in several areas for the year including North America Asia-Pac and the Middle East as well as our managed and support services business.
Second we plan on over 30% EPS growth this year.
We expect to build on our momentum in North America add strategic capabilities to our services franchise with the addition of Airwave and continued to drive backlog with large state and nationwide deals.
And at the same time we plan on driving further operational efficiency with another $120 million in cost savings this year.
Finally I believe we are uniquely positioned to bridge the complimentary aspects of Public Safety LTE data with mission critical LMR voice.
Our LMR market leading franchise remains rock solid as we continue to win major awards and build multi-year backlog in services while at the same time we won the four largest Public Safety LTE awards valued at over $800 million.
We continue to make the required investments in people and capabilities as we incorporate more services and software into our business that will enable us to deliver the right solutions at the right time for our customers.
I feel confident that we're building a stronger and more competitive Company with durable earnings and cash generation that is well-positioned for the future.
And I'll now turn the call back over to Shep before we open it up for your questions.
Okay thanks.
Before we begin taking questions I'd like to remind callers to limit themselves to one question and a follow-up so we can accommodate as many folks as possible.
Operator would you please remind our callers on the line how to proceed with a question? Certainly.
At this time the floor is now open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
And our first question is coming from George Notter with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks very much.
I guess I have a whole slew of questions here.
But I want to start with the guidance for Q1 – a touch below kind of what we were looking for – I think also just treat them a little unclear on how the street handled the Airwave numbers certainly but can you kind of walk through the step down we're seeing in Q1 is it just seasonality or are there other things kind of driving that.
And also I want to ask about Airwave.
You're looking for $450 million in sales for 2016.
I thought Airwave was running about $600 million a year and obviously we can adjust for the closing of the deal on February 19 but it sounds like you're still looking for little bit less on Airwave than we were thinking the run rate was previously.
So those are my questions thanks.
So George let's take Q1 first.
I think the way you think of the ingredients is it's consistent with what we signaled last earnings call.
So in terms of the headwinds Latin America will be down about $40 million that’s inclusive of iDEN for Q1 Europe we expect to be down approximately $40 million primarily driven by Norway as the largest contract we've ever had transitions off of the systems integration phase.
And the third one as we've articulated is FX of about $20 million based on the spot rates today.
So think of about $100 million of headwind the tailwind is $55 million of Airwave which represents the stub period of closing last Friday on February 19.
So that's how I would think about it.
The $450 million of Airwave on an annual basis also represents a partial year.
We haven’t guided yet obviously and won’t signal yet on the full year fiscal 2007 for top-line.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you very much.
I was wondering if you could quantify the EPS accretion you are expecting from Airwave this year.
And then in terms of the longer-term trajectory for Airwave’s revenues how should we think about the UK Public Safety Network transitioning to the mobile operator there relative to Airwave’s revenues in the UK? Hi Simona.
Well first of all I’ll take the second one first.
We're thrilled with the acquisition of Airwave both strategically and financially.
As we talked about $450 million of revenue this year I think probably the most important element is that as part of the negotiation.
We've resolved all disputes and all contracts have been extended through the end of 2019.
So when we now think about the predictability and financial visibility and commensurate earnings and cash as it relates to that acquisition it’s substantial and represents just under $2 billion in backlog through the extension of those contracts through the end of 2019.
We've worked very closely with the UK home office.
They've been great in this engagement in working with us to successfully close the Airwave TETRA network where all contracts are extended through 2019.
And also we are to your point the beneficiaries of the ESN award of $430 million which we view also we’re well positioned to pursue.
So we will work very closely with the home office customer as we transition and I think for a long time how complimentary networks co-exist.
So we will drive the value creation through Airwave and also work closely with the customer on the rollout of ESN at some point in the future.
On the EBITDA for 2016.
EBITDA – for EBITDA contribution of Airwave and I think Simona you the question was specific to EPS contribution of Airwave in 2016.
It's approximately $0.50.
Thank you for that.
And just to clarify when you talked about the $2 billion backlog through 2019 is that inclusive of the $430 million for LTE or is that additional? No that is not inclusive of the $430 million for LTE the $1.95 is Airwave only.
Okay and then just past 2019 are there any tips for revenues that will remain in place at that point.
Or is it going to switch over to your LTE maintenance? I think we’ll work with the customer in the appropriate transition.
And it’s too early to make that call but from an acquisition standpoint we feel very good about our risk adjusted return of capital as it relates to the acquisition of Airwave.
Thank you.
Thank you Simona.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Keith Housum with Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
Greg as we look at ESN award from the UK.
Is there any of that $430 million included in FY2016.
No.
Okay.
Should we think about that being pushed out beyond FY2017 and how should we think about that award? I think from a financial planning standpoint probably yes I would push it out past 2017.
But again we’re going to work very diligently with the home office on the right optimization and mix.
But from a planning standpoint that’s probably a prudent thing to do.
Got you.
And then changing gears over to the operating expense savings here in FY2016.
You guys obviously did a great job here in 2015 taking expensive dollar system.
What’s your primary targets for taking out the $120 million here in 2016.
Well I'd let Gino add something but I would simply say that I think its representative.
Those reductions are pretty consistent with the reductions we’ve made to-date historically in terms of composition and mix.
But as importantly Keith the majority of the actions required to get to these cost targets for 2016 have already been taken.
That’s important to know.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Keith.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go ahead and take our next question from Ashwin Kesireddy with J P Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
As it relates to the core business can you talk about your international full-year outlook? And I was really hoping if you could comment on whether your international outlook has gotten better or worse over the last few months excluding Airwave? Well I think if we go around the globe North America which again is two-thirds of our business had a very strong 2015.
And as they build backlog we expect that growth to continue into 2016 at low-single digits.
So we’re very pleased with North America.
Latin America is distressed.
It’s been consistently distressed from last year.
I think it will probably decline at rates comparable to last year.
I think it’s worth noting that the majority of the decline in Latin America which we expect to be down.
We’ll likely most – likely occur in the first half of this year.
And then we would normalize through the balance of the year.
We expect EMEA to be up with Airwave.
Without Airwave it would be down primarily driven by the role of Norway.
And Asia-Pac roughly we expect to be about flat.
We’ll grow in certain areas.
We would expect given the nature of some of the macroeconomic items in China as well as some of the dynamics of the Chinese marketplace.
We would expect to be down in China.
So all in North America up low-single digits Latin America down pretty markedly at levels in 2016 comparable to 2015 EMEA up with Airwave down without Airwave primarily driven by Norway and Asia-Pac about flat with China declining.
Great thank you.
I just wanted to go back to the Airwave discussion.
Can you give us a sense of the depreciation levels associated with the business and also tax rate probably they're running at a lower tax rate than your corporate average.
Yes.
Your first question was depreciation? Is that what it was depreciation… Yes.
…depreciation associated with Airwave? Yes that’s right.
So the depreciation associated with the Airwave deployment is approximately $80 million a year.
And I'm sorry what was the second part of the question? Tax rate.
Tax rate associated with Airwave.
Yes.
We’ll follow-up Ashwin with tax rate.
So Jack if we could follow-up we'll get you that information on the specific tax rate.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my call my question.
I wanted to start what was the absolute LTE contribution in 2015? Did you get to the $100 million figure? What's your expectation on where that is in 2016? And then I have a follow-up.
Ben we exceeded the number for 2015.
It was about $130 million in 2015 a little higher than we had projected which we were pleased about in terms of 2016.
And we look at kind of the unevenness and rollout of the four contracts we're implementing LA-RICS two in the Middle East and ESN is the fourth award but again as we’ve talked about earlier will have 2016 activity.
We’re thinking of 2016 PS LTE revenue contribution to be comparable to 2015 given that we were pleasantly surprised with the over performance in 2015.
Thanks.
When you look at the FirstNet RFP that's kind of been issued in their discussion around timing and their strategy with the statewide rollouts beyond the awards issued later this year.
How are you feeling about your positioning within that? And then when would you expect opportunities for bigger revenue contribution coming out of the North American Public Safety LTE on those awards? Well look the idea of FirstNet around interoperable data in Public Safety we feel pretty good about the responses to the RFP are due back May 13 we’ve had interest from a few different partners we do plan on participating as you probably would expect in that response.
We view LTE and Public Safety LTE in regards to the FirstNet as we’ve said a number of times before to be additive to our LMR business and we continue to grow in North America.
We continue to add multi-year service contracts in North America.
We continue to build backlog in North America with LMR.
So I think given our incumbency and our Public Safety expertise and our ability I think an ideal position to provide interoperability between LMR and over time Public Safety LTE in North America.
I think we’re very very well positioned.
We don’t think of any revenue contribution in 2016 or 2017.
And as FirstNet is talked about they are targeting an award by the end of the year may slip into really 2017 but that’s kind of the composite attributes of the way we’re thinking about FirstNet.
Thanks and one last one if I could get it.
Given the guidance on top line and operating margins and kind of those cost cuts what's actually built into your gross margin assumptions into 2016 that doesn't translate to even better flow through? Well I think from a gross margin standpoint as we incorporate Airwave everything blended together we think of the gross margin in the high 40s for 2016.
That incorporate the shift to services a bit incorporates obviously the margin profile of Airwave.
But having said that we expect to as we talked about grow EBITDA and grow EBITDA margins and grow operating cash and free cash flow as well in 2016.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today’s program.
I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Shep Dunlap Vice President of Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
So we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
A replay of this call will be made available over the Internet in approximately three hours.
The website address is www.motorolasolutions.com/investor.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.