Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]   Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Jackie and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today to discuss the fourth quarter as well as our full year 2011 results.
Let me begin by reviewing the highlights after which Don and I will take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.04 for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with $1.32 earned in the third quarter of 2011.
Net income for the recent quarter was $148 million compared with $183 million in the linked quarter.
Earnings for the recent quarter were impacted by 4 items I'd like to highlight.
We reported a $79 million pretax other-than-temporary impairment charge on our 20% minority investment in Bayview Lending Group or BLG.
This amounts to $49 million on an after-tax basis or $0.39 per common share.
This reduces M&amp;T's investment in BLG to an estimated fair value of $115 million.
This charge is reflected in other costs of operations in the income statement.
In 2008 M&amp;T Bank Corporation filed a lawsuit against Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
and several other parties seeking damages arising from a 2007 investment in collateralized debt obligations.
The lawsuit alleged among other things that the quality of the investment was not as represented.
This matter has now been fully settled and as part of that settlement M&amp;T received $55 million.
This equates to a $34 million after-tax benefit or $0.27 per common share.
Subsequently M&amp;T made a $30 million contribution to The M&amp;T Charitable Foundation.
As most of you know we've long articulated the view that healthy communities are the foundation of successful businesses.
This belief lies at the heart of M&amp;T's community banking business philosophy.
Grants made to not-for-profit agencies by the foundation are focused on improving the quality of life in our communities and increasing economic opportunities where customers and employees -- where our customers and employees live and work.
Lastly we recorded a $25 million other-than-temporary impairment charge on certain securities in our portfolio of non-agency MBS.
This equates to $15 million after tax or $0.12 per common share.
Taken together these 4 items reduced both GAAP and net operating income by a net $48 million after tax or $0.38 per common share in the fourth quarter.
M&amp;T consistently provides supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effects of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions.
Included in GAAP earnings for the fourth quarter of 2011 were merger-related expenses of $16 million related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition amounting to $10 million after tax or $0.08 per common share.
This compares with $16 million after-tax or $0.13 per common share in the prior quarter.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was also $10 million or $0.08 per common share in the recent quarter compared with $11 million or $0.08 per common share in the third quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the quarter which excludes those items was $168 million compared with $210 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.20 in the recent quarter compared with $1.53 in the linked quarter.
In accordance with the SEC's guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $625 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 up slightly from $623 million in the linked quarter.
The net interest margin contracted during the fourth quarter averaging 3.60% down 8 basis points from 3.68% in the third quarter.
Some 4 basis points of its decline can be attributed to lower prepayment penalties and lower interest on nonperforming loans.
The remaining 4 basis points amount to what I’d characterize as core margin compression as $1.5 billion of average loans and investment securities came onto the balance sheet at yields lower than the book overall.
The lower yields were partially offset by lower borrowing costs and a higher proportion of non-interest-bearing deposits.
In both the third and fourth quarters we held large balances of excess liquidity at the Fed: $1.85 billion in the fourth quarter and $1.7 billion in the third quarter with very modest yields.
In both quarters this excess liquidity diluted the net interest margin by some 9 basis points.
The deposits that were the source of that excess liquidity primarily trust related have now been drawn -- have now been withdrawn or used to fund late fourth quarter loan growth.
Funds held at the Fed as of December 31 were just $155 million.
I'll discuss our outlook for the margin balances and net interest income in a few moments.
As for the balance sheet average loans for the quarter increased by approximately $900 million or an annualized 6% to $59.1 billion from $58.2 billion in the third quarter.
On that same basis compared with the 2011 third quarter changes in average loans by category were as follows: Commercial and industrial loans grew by an annualized 10% loans to auto dealers to finance inventory within that category grew by $217 million while all other C&amp;I loans increased by $168 million or an annualized 5%.
Commercial real estate loans grew at an annualized 2% residential real estate loans grew at an annualized 27% and consumer loans declined by 3% driven by lower indirect auto loans and enclosed in home equity loans.
On an end-of-period basis loan growth was somewhat stronger.
Total loans at the end of 2011 increased by some $1.7 billion or 12% annualized from September 30.
Put another way we entered 2012 with loans already more than $1 billion higher than 2011's fourth quarter average.
Average investment securities grew by approximately $600 million to $7.6 billion.
This growth includes purchases over the course of the third quarter which weren't fully reflected in the third quarter average as well as additional purchases during the fourth quarter.
Average core customer deposits which exclude foreign deposits and CDs over 250 000 increased in the fourth quarter by approximately $2.2 billion or an annualized 15% from the third quarter.
To summarize core organic growth in both loans and deposits was robust during the recent quarter.
Turning to non-interest income.
Including securities gains and losses the $55 million benefit received from the CDO settlement I mentioned non-interest -- excuse me.
Excluding the securities gains and losses and the $55 million benefit received from the CDO settlement I mentioned non-interest income was $368 million for the recent quarter compared with $378 million in the linked quarter.
The $10 million decline was attributable to the implementation of the so-called Durbin Amendment which caps pricing on debit card interchange fees.
Those fees declined by about $17 million compared with the third quarter.
Service charges on deposit accounts which include debit card interchange were $104 million during the recent quarter down from $122 million in the linked quarter.
Mortgage banking fees were $41 million for the quarter up from $38 million in the linked quarter.
The increase is due to higher income from mortgage servicing and from commercial mortgage banking operations.
Turning to expenses.
Operating expenses excluding merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible assets were $706 million for the fourth quarter.
Included in this figure is the $79 million pretax other-than-temporary impairment loss on our equity investment in Bayview Lending Group.
Also included in this figure is the $30 million contribution to The M&amp;T Charitable Foundation.
Excluding those 2 items operating expenses were down from the third quarter of 2011.
Salaries and benefits were down $13 million to $313 million in the fourth quarter as compared with the linked quarter.
The decline in -- is in large -- the decline is largely due to lower salaries and benefits related to our merger with Wilmington Trust.
This reflects the benefits arising from the banking systems consolidation completed in late August but which had not yet materialized in the third quarter.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related expenses -- gains and expenses was 67.4% for the fourth quarter compared with 61.8% in the third quarter of 2011.
The aggregate impact of the $79 million impairment charge related to BLG the $55 million litigation settlement and the $30 million charitable contribution increased the efficiency ratio by 7 -- by some 7 percentage points in the fourth quarter.
Next let's turn to credit.
Overall credit trends continue to show modest improvement.
Non-accrual loans decreased to $1.1 billion or 1.83% of total loans at the end of 2011 from $1.11 billion or 1.91% of total loans at the end of the previous quarter.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken into foreclosure of defaulted loans were $157 million as of December 31 compared with $150 million as of September 30.
Net charge-offs for the quarter were $74 million compared with $57 million in the third quarter of 2011.
As we've noted on more than one occasion at this comparatively low level of charge-offs a single loan can make the difference between an increase or a decrease in any quarter.
In this case we charged off approximately $19 million on a single residential development project in -- located in Northern Virginia.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 50 basis points up from 39 basis points in the linked quarter but very much in line with the full year net charge-off ratio of 47 basis points.
The provision for credit losses was $74 million in the fourth quarter compared with $58 million in the linked quarter.
The provision matched net charge-offs and as a result the allowance for loan losses was $908 million at the end of 2011.
The ratio of allowance for credit losses to total loans was 1.51% compared with 1.56% in the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of December 31 2011 was 3.4x net charge-offs for the past year.
We disclose loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately from non-accrual loans because they're deemed to be well secured and in the process of collection which is to say there is a low risk of principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $288 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans $253 million or 88% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Those figures were $240 million and $210 million respectively at the end of September.
M&amp;T's estimated Tier 1 common capital ratio was 6.86% at the end of 2011.
At the same time M&amp;T's tangible common equity ratio was 6.40% at the end of the fourth quarter.
This reflects higher retained earnings offset by a slightly larger end-of-quarter balance sheet as well as a higher accumulated loss in other comprehensive income.
Last week we submitted our capital plans to the regulators as required under the terms of the 2012 capital plan review and as with other participants we expect to receive comments by the end of the first quarter.
Before we turn to our outlook I'd like to highlight some of what we accomplished in 2011.
We consummated the Wilmington Trust merger and took a major step in integrating process in -- the process by completing the conversion of the Wilmington Trust branches and the back office to M&amp;T's core banking system.
Simultaneous with the merger we purchased and retired Wilmington Trust's $330 million of TARP preferred stock from the Treasury Department as well as retiring an additional $370 million of M&amp;T's own TARP preferred.
We were able to take advantage of an open window in the capital markets in the second quarter by issuing a new series of perpetual preferred stock that we viewed as an attractive fixed rate -- attractive at a fixed rate of 6 7/8.
This offering served as both a source of financing for the purchase -- a repurchase of the TARP preferred as well as to partially fill the hole created by the coming disallowance of trust-preferred stock as an element of the Tier 1 capital structure starting in 2013.
We saw a continued improvement in credit trends with net charge-offs for the year down 23% to $265 million or 47 basis points of average loans and provisioning for loan losses down 27% to $270 million.
And we continue to build our capital ratios particularly the risk-weighted regulatory ratios.
As I noted the Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 6.86% at the end of 2011 up 35 basis points from 6.51% at the end of 2010 all while absorbing Wilmington Trust without a secondary common equity offering and accommodating loan growth.
For the full year 2011 diluted earnings per share were $6.35 an increase of 12% over $5.69 in 2010.
Net income for 2011 was $859 million which represents a 17% increase over the $736 million in 2010.
The GAAP basis net income for the full year of 2010 (sic) [2011] expressed as a rate of average assets and average common shareholders' equity was 1.16% and 9.67% respectively improved from 1.08% and 9.3% in 2010.
Included in GAAP earnings for 2011 was a net after-tax merger-related gain from the Wilmington Trust acquisition of $13 million or $0.10 per common share and this compares to $16 million or $0.14 per common share of after-tax merger per common share net -- of after-tax merger-related gain in 2010 related to the K Bank transaction.
Also included in these earnings for the past year was after-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets amounting to $38 million or $0.30 per common share compared with $35 million or $0.29 per share in 2010.
Net operating income for 2011 which excludes those items I just mentioned was $884 million an increase of 17% from $755 million in 2010.
Diluted net operating income per share was $6.55 for 2011 an increase of 12% from $5.84 per common share in 2010.
The rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.26% and 17.96% respectively for 2011 compared with 17 -- excuse me compared with 1.17% and 18.95% in 2010.
These high-teen returns are particularly notable.
Lastly as most of you know we don't offer much in the way of earnings guidance but we'll share our thoughts on our general outlook.
Our balance sheet continues to be positioned for slight downward pressure on the net interest margin as a result of new loans and securities coming on to the balance sheet at lower yields than those maturing.
That said the fourth quarter net interest margin of 3.60% could likely prove to be abnormally low given the lower levels of cash we currently hold at the Federal Reserve as well as lower levels of prepayment penalties and interest on nonperforming loans we've seen -- that we saw in the recent quarter.
Overall we expect the full year net interest margin for 2012 to be modestly lower than the 3.73% reported for the full year of 2011.
When combined with mid single-digit loan growth we anticipate continued growth in net interest income throughout 2012.
We remain very focused on expenses both on the day-to-day costs of operating the business as well as on achieving the remaining cost-savings opportunities arising from the Wilmington Trust integration.
Realizing those opportunities should materialize throughout the year with the majority of the impact to occur in the second half following our planned second quarter trust-to-systems conversion.
In addition I'd expect a limited amount of additional merger-related expenses approximately $10 million to be incurred over the first half of 2012 combined with the $84 million of merger-related expenses incurred to date and this would keep us below the $100 million we outlined back on September 12.
We remain cautious with our outlook for credit.
After all we're bankers.
The economy is growing albeit slowly but unemployment still remains high and the housing sector is unsettled.
We expect continued slow steady improvement in criticized and non-accrual loans with credit costs improving over a long-time horizon.
Lastly I'll remind you that M&amp;T's first quarter results have tended to be seasonally low reflecting fewer days and higher expenses associated with the FICA reset accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense and the 401(k) match.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
We will now open up the call to questions before which Jackie will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions]   Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Clark with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> As it relates to the seasonal increase in comp you tend to experience in the first quarter can you give us a sense for whether or not that might be different this time around in terms of the magnitude partly since you – I would assume you still have some cost savings coming to you from Wilmington? I guess asked another way is can you give us a sense for how much in the way of cost saves you got this past quarter? Yes let me answer you 2 ways.
I mean I just tend to -- there's never a lot of big change in sort of what we're doing around comps so my sense is that you’re looking back to what happened in the fourth the first quarter.
The last couple of years is a good gauge.
Maybe on its own it's a little higher because it's a little bit bigger right but not significantly larger.
And then as I think about where we are we're pretty pleased with what we've been able to achieve to date.
We talked about the trend down in expenses.
You saw sort of what happened to the salary and benefit line.
And my sense is if you kind of move your way out we're probably halfway through the work to get to the overall expense saves that we have.
So said another way if you were to sort of annualize the benefits you saw from the third to the fourth quarter and then looked at the full year impact on that next year I'd say that number is probably about 1/2 of what we'll be able to realize then.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you got 10 of the 20 in the run rate? I think probably a little more.
I mean much of the salary and benefits declined.
We talked about the $13 million.
It’s I think it’s probably a decent gauge of the impact from Wilmington.
It might not have all come in salaries but generally that's a pretty good gauge.
Just to clarify that would be the quarterly running rate.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Correct okay.
Okay and then on the credit side of things can you give us a -- it looks like it was in the 90 days past due I know a lot of that is government guaranteed but still I think up roughly $40 million or so.
Just anything going on there? And then as a follow-on just the how much classified assets improved or maybe have gone the other way? Yes I have to look at the classified assets.
I believe that that trend was positive.
Let me get back to you for a second.
The 90 day issue is just a purchase of -- the Ginnie Mae repurchases.
So remember we think it makes a lot of economic sense to buy those government-guaranteed loans out of servicing because at the end of the day the economics are better if we do that.
So that's just that's all that really is.
Give me one second.
So we are down slightly again.
I mean I think if you look at from our queues the decline that you saw in the last several -- each of the last several quarters you'll see a similar decline when we publish our Q so a steady improvement or a reduction in the classified loan balances.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just housekeeping on the tax rate a little lower this quarter.
I'm assuming we bounced back a little bit here...
Yes I think that's right.
I think that obviously when you have some of the net lower effect of the items we mentioned you still have a fixed tax credit so that'll come up.
And then we had probably some slight benefit from some small tax settlements we did with the States that went in our favor.
But generally speaking I think what you'll see is it'll come up a little bit when -- as the earnings come up.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to just touch base a little bit on the – all the extraordinary items.
Kind of taking $1.04 you obviously take the $0.38 out; that gets you up to about $1.42.
And then when you start to adjust out the integration costs that I've I heard about an $0.08 there so like $1.50 was including still the intangible amortization but kind of $1.50 is kind of in my mind kind of an operating number.
Your math seems good.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and given that we kind of came into the acquisition of Wilmington Trust with about $1.60 in earnings power.
How do you see us kind of recapturing that as we go forward? Is it really still just based into the fact that we're starting to hold more of those mortgages so we get the benefit of that next year we get the integration costs still coming out? But kind of give us just a feel for how we build back towards the earnings level we were pre the acquisition.
There are just 2 things that come to mind.
I think you're right in the idea that we think it's beneficial to hold mortgages now so obviously that benefit will accrue to us in the future.
I think -- just by way of example I think we -- that the fee income that we that was foregone this past quarter was about 14 -- between $14 million and $15 million right so all that comes to you down the road in the form of net interest income.
But I think what we can't lose sight of is what tends to happen is we’ve had a lot of change in regulation.
So by way of example we were just looking at some of our numbers and if we go back to say the second quarter of 2010 so 6 quarters ago and we look at the impact of Durbin overdraft changes the higher calculation of the FDIC insurance premium looking at the second quarter of 2010 versus this quarter that's almost a $40 million difference.
So said another way annualized $160 million $150 million to $160 million.
So what's really been happening is we've sort of been running the bank and you haven't noticed that because our earnings have held up.
But we've through Wilmington and other ways have been offsetting what has been a really really heavy regulatory burden.
And I think along with other banks over time we're going to have to figure that out.
What I do is I focus on the efficiency ratio.
And if you look at where our efficiency ratio is and I think in large part because of all the changes that it's higher than it normally is.
And what we'll do is we'll start thinking about how we move that efficiency ratio back to a level that we like and are comfortable with because we think it's a big part of the strength of the bank overall.
People talk about capital a lot but at the end of the day the strength of your operating earnings and the sort of quality of those earnings are your sort of first line of defense.
So I think that's that.
It's hard to answer your question any more specifically Marty but we're working on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a curiosity if you look at the $30 million that you put into the charitable foundation have you done that in the past? Is this something you typically prefund the next year's expenses? Or in my mind typically when you have something that's unusual you can take that and put it into the charitable foundation as a good benefit.
But right now trying to build your capital up would it not have been more efficient to keep the $30 million and just pay for it as you go because you get the benefit in the capital ratio upfront? I think a couple.
I think I'm looking to answer that a couple of different ways.
We feel very very comfortable about our capital generation.
And if you kind of look at the quarter and what we did and we supported $1.7 billion of loan growth and had our adjustment to the value of Bayview and at the end of the day I think our Tier 1 common moved down one basis point so we're generating capital very quickly.
I also think that if you look back at the history we've just sort of had a history whenever you sort of see a bit of a windfall like that like we saw with the Deutsche Bank situation that we tend to look at our ability to fund the charitable -- make a funding to the charitable foundation and that's what we did.
I think really explicitly in this case we've talk a lot about how the health of our communities is really important to the health of M&amp;T Bank and I also think in this case there's been a link between Wall Street and what's gone on to the health of the communities out there so we felt very very -- we thought it was the right thing to do.
When we got the $55 million in cash we turned around and funded the charitable contribution.
So I don't know how to describe it any differently.
We feel very comfortable about all the items you mentioned capital generation our commitment to the communities.
I don't think we thought about it as much as maybe -- as you might think.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what percent of your annual community budget is funded out of the charitable foundation? I mean most of what we do not all but most of what we do is managed through the foundation.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> René I was wondering if you'd give us a little bit more color on the NIM comments you made.
So with I understand well your points about the excess liquidity but just trying to get a little bit of a gauge in terms of is it then that 9 basis points of excess liquidity that basically you get back going forward from a magnitude perspective and then the margin kind is positioned to drip from there? I just want to kind of understand the progression and kind of the magnitude of the get-back from that excess liquidity being now utilized in loan growth.
Yes I mean we quantify that going from the $1.8 billion that we've been running at to down to $1.55 billion was 9 basis points impact.
And I guess the way I look at it is the first point I'd make is that with Wilmington Trust as part of M&amp;T and the opportunity from time to time to get cash you're going to see a little bit of noise from time to time in the printed net interest margin percentage.
But when I step back we started with a slight borrowing position before the Wilmington Trust transaction.
We inherited on the merger day I think it was $2.6 billion of cash and we've been carrying that.
And now what you've seen is we've been able to put that to work.
It's taken some time but with the securities growth the loan growth right we've been able to sort of utilize that position now so I think that's a change.
And then just as I look at the trends as to where we're headed as sort of a guess [ph] I just saw that we were a little low on some of the other cash items versus where we've been in past periods.
So as I think about it I think there's clearly some core margin compression that's embedded in our numbers and I think that that would accelerate if you saw really continued elevated levels of loan and balance sheet growth right because it's just sort of new stuff rolling on and replacing I think at a lower yield.
With a little bit more normalized loan growth from period to period I think maybe that margin compression might be a little less and then that sort of is offset by a little bit of repricing that's left on the liability side.
So to summarize the 360 seems a little low we're going to be lower than we were in the full year last year.
That's kind of what we think.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But again just to confirm then so the premise is that maybe you get the pop in the first just from the excess liquidity now being utilized and then underneath that past that point the natural direction would be to be slightly down from there.
I think I don't know about the timing but I think the natural position is slight downward pressure on that margin.
And I guess what I was worried about is when I look at where we see ourselves headed our starting point probably is not the 360 that we posted this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
My second question is just with regards to the growth that you've seen on the balance sheet and you mentioned continuing to want to retain mortgages.
Obviously that was almost $1 billion of sequential growth.
Does the pipeline that you have in terms of originations continue to support that type of growth in the mortgage balances? Yes I think we did.
For our portfolio we originated last quarter something like a little under $800 million and then this quarter we did I think a little under $700 million.
So just give me one second and I'll see where I am there.
And I mean the volume probably slowed a little bit as of late with rates up but there's probably a pretty decent clip.
I mean when we started this thing I guess I was thinking we’d do about $500 000 a quarter and we've been running ahead of that because of where the rate environment has been.
Yes so specifically if you look locking for our -- or sort of originating [ph] for our portfolio locking for our portfolio was in the third quarter 9 – 791.
We did 680 in the fourth quarter right and so I think we're well above are target of $0.5 billion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question René is tangible book value was down a little bit because of the unrealized swing.
I was wondering if you can just characterize what parts of the portfolio are you still seeing the spread widening in and how much of that portfolio I guess is still left that's probably the resulting in some of that OTTI that you booked this quarter? Okay separate -- let's just break those into 2 parts.
So really the drop that we saw in -- or the increase in our other comprehensive income was relative to the pension plan which was lowering our discount rate by about one point given where rates are looking at sort of the user.
Use a corporate bond yield.
And look at that at the end of the year.
So that was the big change.
I think that was a change of almost $200 million pretax.
So that's why that was down.
When we look at our OTTI I mean we were just under $10 million last quarter; we're at $25 million this quarter.
And I guess the way I would characterize that is as we kind of look out and look at the performance of the bonds and then more importantly think about the time horizon in which it will take for low rates to get better and for housing to get better.
We sort of extended our outlook a little longer out on that basis.
So not necessarily a change in the performance of the underlying bonds but a change in our outlook on how long it will -- the current environment will stay as it is today.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> René can you talk a little bit more about the drivers of loan growth this quarter where you really saw some of the growth in the C&amp;I book? And then also can you give us a little bit of color around loan demand where your line utilization is and also the trend in commitments? Yes sure sure.
I'm happy to do that.
We saw -- let me just give you some numbers.
We saw on the 6% if you think about the average loan growth the 6% up we saw 5% growth in Upstate New York and Western New York.
We saw in our metro region which is Philly Westchester New York metropolitan area we saw 11% growth in total loans.
And we saw a decline a slight decline in PA and a decline of about 8% in the Mid-Atlantic.
In the Mid-Atlantic that was sort of funding of construction loans which kind of went -- actually after having funded construction loans they moved over to permanent and we syndicated those out of our book.
So we're collecting fees there but generally what's happening is we're kind of making sure we don't keep more than the amount of exposure that we want there.
So activity in the Mid-Atlantic was pretty strong as well.
So if you kind of look at it I'd say it's relatively across the board.
We continue to be really encouraged by our performance in Upstate New York.
We really do feel that we have an unprecedented opportunity to gain market share in upstate given the disruption that's gone on with in particular with HSBC.
That seems to be going very well.
And then overall I'd just say that there was a nice uptick in the activity.
If you look at exclude Wilmington and you look from the fourth quarter of last year to the fourth quarter of this year I'd say we had about 4% growth core growth and the current trends and the activities feel a little bit more positive than they did a year ago.
So those are my comments.
I don't know if you have any other follow-up questions.
Research Division</strong> Well just from the line utilization do you have what it was for the quarter? I haven't really looked at it but it was up a bit; it ticked up a bit for the last 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then on TARP can you -- I know you just mentioned that you obviously submitted under CCAR the capital plan.
Can you talk to us about your updated thoughts about around the timing of the payment of your remaining slice of TARP? As we said before we'll do it as soon as is practical and that’s not something that sort of -- it involves others; it involves the Federal Reserve and so forth.
So our objective would be to do it as soon as practical because we kind of view it a bit as a drain on our tangible generation.
So that's our position; it hasn't really changed.
I guess I'll leave it at that.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> René just along the lines of loan growth could you talk about with the resi mortgage loan growth is that mostly arms? Or sort of what is the yield that you all are putting new loans on your books at? The yield is sort of at 4% maybe a little below 4% and it's a sort of a mix of 30- and 15-year.
I'd say more than 1/2 of that maybe 60% of it is 15-year agency mortgages.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a quick question on credit.
You mentioned the $19 million charge-off in the Mid-Atlantic.
Was that fully reserved for or is some of this quarter's provision related to that credit? We had a specific -- we had a specific reserve for that loan so there wasn't a big surprise with respect to it.
And this is a portfolio -- I think in fact I think it's something that was from that original Mid-Atlantic portfolio that we've been talking about for several years which is now down to dare I say de minimis amounts.
I think I looked at the balances the other day and the on-balance sheet from that original -- of sort of Mid-Atlantic original portfolio was something like $170 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sort of as we think about provisioning going forward should we -- can we expect charge-offs and provision to sort of match as you work down specific reserves and then replace it as you think about provisioning for growth? Or net-net are you thinking you can release reserves or build? Or how are you thinking about it? I think it depends.
I mean if we didn't -- don't see an improvement in the overall economy and the levels of nonperforming criticized loans but we like the trends right but having said that there's still very -- the levels are very abnormally high at least for us.
And until we see a significant change there it would be hard just to think about taking down the allowance.
Having said that at the same time we're booking a lot of loans right? So when you put on $1.7 billion of new loans you've got to provide for those as well.
So I think our trend is -- when I look to the future I look at what we've done in the past right? Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is clarity on the Tier 1 common ratio that you gave of 6.86%.
That's on a Basel I basis? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Do you have what it would be on a Basel III basis? No.
And again I've said this before sort of speculating on how the regulation is going to come out and what the rules of the game are going to be.
We just haven't spent much time doing that so all of our -- you got it? Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess my follow-up question to you is we're getting mixed messages in terms of what the regulators are looking at in the cap -- in CCAR for 2012.
Some banks have told us that "Don't be so naïve to think that Basel III doesn't matter " but it sounds like you submitted your capital plan that it's given what you said we still don't know what the final rules are.
Basel I will continue to be the focus for the regulators.
Is it your sense that they're not looking at Basel III for those for the capital plan for 2012? Well we just follow the rules.
I mean they've got a process.
They tell you what to look for -- what to use and we've gone through that process.
And to the extent that we are required to go out and do something under a new set of rules we would do that when the time comes.
But it's just a lot of energy to be spending time trying to hit on what those prospective rules might come out to be.
The other thing I think about is when we think about the capital planning here at M&amp;T we don't think about it any differently because we’ve been asked to do a capital plan review than we’ve done in the past.
And I think it's kind of helpful to remember with M&amp;T is why our capital ratios are where they are.
We started out in the middle of a really poor economic environment in 2009 and we bought Provident and then we did a couple of FDIC-assisted deals and helped them out with another and then we bought Wilmington.
And every single time that you go through that you've got to be approved and so we submit plans and capital plans and in several cases stress tests and all that through the process.
And if the regulators are comfortable with those plans then you move forward as it is.
So when you look at that under a fair amount of scrutiny what we've done is we've taken a lot of our capital generation and used it to support the stability of the banking industry by not letting those institutions kind of come down and we brought them on as part of M&amp;T.
Our ability to generate capital as you kind of look at that is really really high right? So when we look at it we've been through a lot of stress testing.
We kind of took the same process and presented what we do in the same way.
And from our perspective we're not too concerned.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just my second question I wanted to follow up on some of the guidance you gave on the expense side.
If I'm looking at the number correctly and please let me know if I'm looking at it incorrectly excluding the -- some of the noise and excluding the intangible amortization expense it looks like the quarterly run rate for expenses would be $603 million for the fourth quarter.
And if I'm looking at an annualized rate of $2.4 billion in core expenses for 2012 how much is left to take out of that $2.4 billion number? And I'm wondering because you mentioned there could still be 50% of cost saves remaining to realize from Wilmington Trust but you mentioned last quarter that there could still be reinvestment going into the legacy franchise that could be going on as well how should we think about the puts and takes? Numbers aside the way you're thinking about it is exactly right.
I mean I just -- we've talked about -- initially we talked about $80 million in expense saves from the Wilmington transaction.
I don't know maybe if you annualize the 13 we're up around 40 to 50 and I think we’re 50% of the way there so we feel very very good about that.
And those are pretty much absolute numbers but then you've got to bring them into M&amp;T.
And the way we think about M&amp;T particularly after receiving a lot of this pressure on fees and things from the regulation is that we have to have a positive revenue expense spread.
That means expenses will grow.
We just want to make sure that they grow at a slower rate than the revenues.
So I mean I kind of look at the 2 separately but when I look at it overall expenses should be very well controlled in total as we kind of move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Adam Chaim calling in for Matt.
I just had a quick one on I guess the expenses in 4Q the extraordinary expenses in 4Q.
It looks like it's mostly sort of a clean-up quarter; I don't know if that's fair to say.
But what do those impairment charges mean for securities OTTI losses going forward and also the Bayview run rate losses? Well with respect to the securities you're -- what you're trying to do is you're trying to look out into the future and predict your cash flows.
And to the extent that you think that you're going to have some credit impairment you've got to take that and write those securities down to fair value.
So if we've done that the right way and we don't see any change in the economic environment on a particular security we think we've taken care of it.
Having said that in any quarter you could get a different set of securities that could come up and you've got to look at them each quarter.
With respect to the Bayview thing remember that what we did this quarter takes down our basis but the structure is such that our initial -- original investment BLG or Bayview Lending Group we have a 20% equity interest in and in that particular piece we use equity accounting so we record our share of the losses of that business.
And while it's no longer originating a small-balance commercial security it still has operating cost is the best way to put it.
And so I would expect very little change in what you've been seeing quarter over quarter there.
The remaining -- most of the value that you have that supports our current market value is related to the parent company Bayview Financial and our 20% interest in all of it is cash flows.
It's not 20% ownership but it's interest in the upside.
And then in terms of cleanup I don't -- that clean-up word is kind of weird to me but it – it doesn't register with me so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one other quick one on the trust income.
Revenues were flat Q-over-Q.
We thought that revenues might have seen a little bit of a bounce in 1Q.
I think in 3Q you might have said that – you said that revenues were weak by I think $5 million to $8 million based on lower valuations and the equity markets.
So when do we sort of start seeing a rebound there since we've seen an improvement in the financial markets? I know it's a temporary thing but is that a related driver of that revenue? Well I think what you're talking about there is all related to the trust and investment income.
And then in that space that's where the $5 million to $8 million was.
We saw some of that come back.
Fees and total trust fees were relatively flat quarter-over-quarter and part of that was because of some of the uptick in market values.
I think it might take a couple of quarters to get that back.
Having said that when you look at the underlying business you've got to look at each of the components.
And so for example in the global capital markets portion of the business Wilmington is the trustee for a lot of the securitizations that are out there.
And so you get a lot of -- the uptick in revenue comes with a lot of issuances of debt and those types of thing.
That market was -- dropped heavily in the third quarter.
I think the amount of issuances were even lower on the fourth quarter and are some sort of record low for the last several years.
So when that happens their income is going to be down a little bit in that particular part of the business.
I think generally speaking overall we'll -- we expect sort of modest growth.
We're taking our time.
And we think there's probably a lot of upside but it's hard to predict exactly when that occurs.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start I wasn't clear on your answer to Erika's question: Should we now be modeling $100 million of cost saves from Wilmington? I don't know.
I mean I think -- I feel like we're at about 1/2 where we were so we're at least -- we at least got 1/2 of the 40.
We've done the work to get 1/2 of the 40.
Maybe it's a little higher.
I'm just kind of looking at where we're running and I'd say we will probably have expense saves from Wilmington of -- that have been baked in and on an annual basis of $40 million to $50 million and I think we're about halfway there.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So we should take it up a bit I'm assuming.
Okay.
In terms of the margin...
A lot of moving parts in the whole expense space you know.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
In terms of the margin you said that prepaid fees declined.
Can you break out what the dollars of prepaid fees were here in the fourth quarter so we know how much of that might be at risk in future quarters going away? I'd rather not but let me give you this context.
I mean it's a couple of million dollars right so a basis point is less than $1 million or something like that right? So that's why you can kind of tell when it gets down to negligible amounts that that's not consistent right? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally René in terms of this excess liquidity how do you think about the right amount of cash you should be holding? And are you expecting to move some of that into the securities portfolio to offset some of this margin pressure over the next few quarters? I think our securities -- let me think of a way to start on that.
First of all I think our securities book is probably one of the lowest among the regional banks and the last I looked we were probably half the size relative to our size of a securities book.
And for the time being we will continue to purchase security and hold mortgages so that probably would be a source of offset to the extent that we see continued growth in deposits and liquidity.
But I feel -- in a very macro sense I feel pretty good that we were able to take the $2.6 billion that we got from Wilmington.
It took us 6 months and to begin to utilize it.
I would guess that the average balances going forward we typically don't carry that much cash.
Research Division</strong> But should we think of it that you continue to hold the liquidity or that you draw that down into the securities portfolio? Well what we did is we drew the -- we drew that down into liquid securities right so we're just it means -- the word liquidity is interesting right? As long as you're keeping high-quality securities you're maintaining liquidity and you have that for future dates for whatever reason right? But you're just earning money on it as opposed to sitting -- having it sit with the Fed.
Research Division</strong> Got you got you.
Any thoughts on the operating expense side to offset margin pressure beyond Wilmington? We're going to be very diligent on expenses.
And it's hard to say but I think the way we look at it we'll probably talk about -- a little bit about it in our annual report.
We've got a lot of work to do to offset sort of the changing banking environment because the rules of the game have changed.
And so part of that is going to be focused on expense outside of what goes on with Wilmington.
There will also be the other side.
So what I'm talking about is the fact that we've got to have a much wider revenue expense grid than we've been running at in the past so efficiency is probably key for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the 12 basis point decline in loan yields quarter-over-quarter can you give us the impact between what was actually driven by spread what was driven by rate and if there’s any derivative or swap impact? [indiscernible] No swap impact.
Could you ask me that question in a different way? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Most of the impact I'm assuming is from putting new loans on at lower yields with higher loan -- high-yielding loans rolling off.
So what is the impact from that which is really spread? And the other impact was for all your variable-rate loans what was the impact in this shift in rates? Okay.
So I would say that if our core margin compression that I talked about was 4 basis points I would say at least 1/2 of that was volume of loan coming on probably a little bit more.
Maybe a little bit is a result of -- if you look at the Wilmington book it's got a higher mix of variable rates in that and so when you bring that on there was a little bit of margin compression from normal margin compression as well.
So majority of the 4 basis points in my mind and the majority therefore of the 11 points in the asset side is going to be from the volume but there is I don't know 1 2 3 basis points 3 4 basis points of the 11 that is just normal -- I would guess is normal yield compression.
Remember when we talk about lower prepayment penalties and those things that's also a component of the 11 basis points that you're looking at.
And then finally what I'll say is you can see the change in the book.
Some of that is lower rates on deposits and time deposits running off.
But I mean that -- I mean I don't know the deposit side I wouldn't expect the change to trend -- to change dramatically.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then René just one follow-up.
If you look at your pretty strong loan growth from last quarter and assumed and I don't want to be too short-term focused here but assumed that the first quarter ended last Friday and you annualized that.
I'm just wondering how is loan demand trending in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter? And can you also discuss any expected seasonality? I don't know.
I mean I think the activity seems to have picked up.
Let's go back.
We had actually a pretty robust quarter a year ago.
And that tailed in -- last year that tailed into January and February and then it got a little quiet.
And then of course with the downgrade of the U.S.
and Europe falling off the charts everything seemed to get very quiet.
I think that really affected our third quarter.
Having said that in the third quarter of this year even though our balances were low we saw a lot of underlying demand and a lot of that materialized over the last say 4 months of the year.
And so it's hard to predict what will happen but I do kind of feel like it's sort of déjà vu from where we were last year.
And if we can get some stability out there then maybe that'll all translate into sort of an uptick in the total level of year-over-year loan growth.
But I mean given what happened last year I feel very -- pretty comfortable with that.
What we were able to do last year we should be able to do again this year and that's kind of how I look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of John Fox with Fenimore Asset Management.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I have 2 quick.
René the mark-to-market on the pension plan did you say that was 200 pretax? Something like that up in that range.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what was the amount of preferred dividends in the quarter? I think it's in the release but give me a second.
Inc.</strong> I backed into $17.9 million.
Is that right? Give me one second and I’ll tell you.
That seems high.
Inc.</strong> It seems high to me which is why I'm asking.
16 maybe.
You've got the in that number you've got the amortization of the -- $2 million is the amortization of the TARP discount.
John just the some of the other analysts include the net income attributable to unvested restricted stock and so you may be thinking of that as being preferred dividend even though it’s not technically is but it is part of the difference between GAAP net income and net income for EPS purposes and I believe that's another 2.
Inc.</strong> All right great.
And I had a -- somebody at a another bank mentioned to me that they have -- the bank has no interest in getting -- collecting deposits at this point because everyone has so much liquidity.
What are your thoughts on that comment? As one of my peers on the management group says we call those customers.
So we're more than happy to help everybody with their liquidity.
Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up -- you've seen a lot of these things but just on the loan yield side as we look at kind of the differentiation between what's rolling off and what you're putting on.
I know you said it's lower.
Can you quantify sort of how much lower? And I'm just trying to reconcile when that churn really starts to slow because you guys already seem like you're sitting in a fairly low kind of weighted average loan yield anyway and I would just think you're probably closer to a bottoming then.
And maybe that's what you mean on your margin comment but just trying to reconcile those numbers a little bit more.
Yes I mean okay I one I don't think I can quantify it.
I'll think about it and if we decide to do some more then we'll disclose it in -- somewhere in our Q and so forth.
But the way I think about it is if you think about last quarter the linked quarter we actually had some uptick in our loan yields right and that was because we had higher prepayment and non-accrual interest on those loans.
And my sense is that they would have been flat to slightly down the previous quarter as well.
And then that trend would have continued this quarter.
This quarter you had a flip in those sort of cash items right? And I don't off the top of my mind know is that like maybe 3.
Give me one second.
Maybe 2 to 3 basis points 4 basis points on the loan yields; maybe that's the 4 that I talked about.
And then – but so that would leave you with something like 7 to 8 and a lot of that I think was a little abnormally high because we had so much volume of loan and securities on our books.
So there's a natural number in there.
I haven't really quantified exactly what that natural number is.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's helpful.
And then just on the -- just a little bit of color on the loan side the loan growth that you're seeing.
I know you broke it out geographically but do you have a sense at all of what types of businesses are borrowing and where you're seeing the demand just from a kind of an economic sector standpoint? Yes yes.
Well I mean we saw -- I saw – I take a look at by stick code [ph] and all that.
I mean there's really no one particular trend.
We -- it seems to be in all types of commercial customers.
We did have as we spelled out in our press release the fact that we got a rebound in the inventories on the auto floor plan right but aside from that you can't really see -- I mean in the real estate world you saw that come back.
For the first time we've been running slightly down.
I think all the activity was there but probably the runoff of the book remember we've got Wilmington in there has slowed.
But there's no specific spike.
I mean I would say we've got growth in a lot of categories.
The other thing I'd point out is that since the acquisition the Wilmington loan book has actually been coming down but we saw -- even in Delaware we saw C&amp;I grow for 4 consecutive months right for the first time so that turned.
And in total the amount of runoff that we've seen in that book has actually slowed a bit.
So there's some encouraging signs and it would be nice to have a quarter where every one of the regions has grown.
And that's not happened yet but I think the trend is headed in the right direction.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's helpful.
And then just finally just curious and maybe it was your comments about your outlook just being cautious as to the timeline that we're sitting -- going to sit in this environment but why now did you change your course on Bayview? I mean for years you guys have been badgered on this line item.
I just am curious why now you opted to pull the trigger.
Well I mean you kind of got to go back right? So other-than-temporary impairment requires a view that says over the passage of time if something stays below its fair value for a long period of time you've got to really think hard about saying that that's not other-than -- that’s not a temporary decline.
And so if you think about what happened over time in 2008 Bayview BLG stopped doing its origination of loans and then what we did in 2008 is we restructured that investment so that we received an interest on all the cash flows of parent Bayview Financial.
And if you look at where we are today much of the valuation that we have today is based on the sort of asset management business.
If you kind of go back to our Q when we were extending out our view of our ability to sort of collect our book value all of our calculations said that in our estimates that our present value of the cash flows that we thought we would be able to collect were about 106% of the book value of our investment.
What's kind of changed is as you kind of think about is -- what's changed really is our thinking about that timing.
And so as you think about the business that they're in Bayview's asset management business is a business which sort of manages capital for investors in the distressed mortgage space through either asset purchases or through servicing.
And what I guess we would say is it's kind of ironic in a sense because what we like is the prudence at which they seem to be managing that business.
And what that means is that when asset prices or servicing prices are high they chose not to deploy a lot of money so that they could keep their returns high.
And as opportunities and prices drop and they think they're fair they have the ability to grow assets under management by deploying that cash much faster.
If you kind of just think about that discipline what it says to us is that if they keep doing that the business is actually growing it's doing well but our ability to predict the timing sort of schedule out the timing of when we'd receive those cash flows is less.
So as we kind of looked at it we were somewhere around our cash flows we suggested were sort of somewhere in and around the book value and we said "Look what's our ability to really predict the timing to a great degree of accuracy?" So we decided to sort of take a look at the fair value and write it down to fair value at that time which is what's required with an OTTI analysis.
So really the underlying business we see a lot of growth and a lot of favorable things that are going on but what's really changed is our view of the timing of when we'd be able to recover the investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry to kind of beat the dead horse but just a follow-up to earlier questions what's kind of your average loan yield on C&amp;I loans in the quarter? Give me 2 seconds and I'll give you that.
In total we were somewhere around -- average loan yield was 378.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay for consolidated all products or just C&amp;I? C&amp;I.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
How does that compare -- I mean the Fed survey shows it's around 2.5.
I mean what's the main I guess discrepancy? I know you historically have very low losses just how you're getting over 100 basis points more than kind of the industry norm.
Well let me -- give me a second; let me give you some sense [ph].
If you look at how we manage the business one I think if there's a difference we're not doing a lot of large syndicated credits with investment-grade companies right? And I think that's how you would get margins I would say or yields that are that much lower on your C&amp;I book.
But to give you some sense: If you look at a spread from swaps our margins are routinely in the -- above 3% on the businesses that we actually bank which a lot of which are smaller small businesses and middle-market companies so we're something like the sixth-largest SBA lender in the U.S.
; third-largest east of the Mississippi all right? So we're banking much smaller business credit.
The one thing I would say is that it's interesting what you see when you look at the volume of business that we do over the last 4 or 5 quarters the margin has held up steady right in and around 3%; slightly higher when you look at it relative to the swaps curve.
And so I think really when you think of the bank's margin what's really happening is banks have hit a floor on the deposit side.
And -- but when you look at the underlying business if we're booking it at an appropriate spread there really tends to be quite a bit of upside if the interest rate environment were to be -- were to normalize.
So I'm not sure I mean the C&amp;I spread that seems really really low for the type of business we would be in.
So I don't know exactly what everybody else would be doing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So the 378 look like actually the rate for the average for the quarter but you're saying what you originated is still -- are you saying it's in the ballpark of the what's on the books right now? If you look at what we originated in the last 2 quarters it's just above 3% relative to the swap rates.
So maybe I don't know what is that 323 325 330 somewhere in that range yield.
Your final question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's more of a concept of on the earlier question about the Basel III.
When we do the calculation we put all the enterprise-wide risk into our models.
M&amp;T Bank actually doesn't have much of an adjustment.
All I was getting at is because you don't and because of the great risk management that you've had in the past there is not much of an adjustment between Basel I and Basel III so really there's not the haircut that you see in all the other banks which would make it so important for them to do the calculation versus you-all being able to equate at least without any unknown changes that you're pretty much in line with where Basel III would be.
I like what you're saying.
I just my problem is I don't -- thank you very much.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just saying in general the risk management practice has limited the impact of Basel III.
So that way your capital plan can kind of get away without having to formally calculate that.
I think it's very very important that capital management's got to be above capital and risk.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just going to put that out there so you kind of reconcile a lot of other banks are probably having to have more emphasis on that.
Thanks Marty.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any items on the call or the news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now turn the conference over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melissa and good afternoon.
This is Don MacLeod and I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you've not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I would like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer Rene Jones.
Thank you Don and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call.
I'll cover a few of the highlights from our earnings and then we'll take your questions.
Overall our results for the first quarter of 2011 were consistent with the trends we've seen over the past several quarters that is to say modest but steady improvement in most of our metrics.
Turning to the specific numbers.
For the first quarter of 2011 diluted earnings per common share were $1.59 unchanged from the prior quarter and up 38% from the $1.15 in the first quarter of 2010.
Net income for the recent quarter was $206 million compared with $204 million in the linked quarter and $151 million in last year's first quarter.
M&amp;T's results for the first quarter include the impact of a repositioning of our balance sheet leading up to the merger of Wilmington Trust.
During the recent quarter M&amp;T sold investment securities predominantly including $484 million of agency pass-through securities resulting in an after-tax gain amounting to $24 million or $0.20 per common share.
As we included in our November 1 2010 investor presentation announcing the Wilmington deal we have targeted post-closing capital ratios at a level that will approximate those in place as of September 30 2010 before announcement of the deal.
Also included in our GAAP earnings for this year's first quarter was after-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets amounting to $7 million or $0.06 per common share.
This compares with $8 million or $0.07 per common share in the linked quarter and $10 million or $0.08 per common share in the year-ago quarter.
The first quarter results included after-tax expenses related to the completed K Bank acquisition as well as the upcoming Wilmington Trust merger amounting to $3 million or $0.02 per common share.
The results in the fourth quarter of 2010 included a merger-related gain of $16 million or $0.14 per common share relating to the K Bank acquisition.
There were no merger-related items in last year's first quarter.
Net operating income which excludes the amortization of intangibles as well as merger-related items was $216 million or $1.67 per common share for the first quarter of 2011 compared with $196 million or $1.52 per common share in the linked quarter and $161 million or $1.22 per common share in last year's first quarter.
Excluding the securities gains I just mentioned net operating income was improved by 20% from the year-ago quarter.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
The annualized return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.36% and 20.16% for the recent quarter compared with 1.2% and 18.43% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $575 million for the first quarter of 2011 up 2% from $562 million in the first quarter of 2010.
But due to a lower day count down from $580 million in the linked quarter.
The net interest margin widened during the first quarter averaging 3.92% an increase of seven basis points from 3.85% in the sequential quarter.
Five basis points of the improvement came as a result of the lower level of money market assets in the first quarter as compared with the fourth quarter.
Recall that in the fourth quarter we had an average of almost $800 million of reversed repurchase agreements on the balance sheet to collateralize the seasonal inflow of municipal deposits.
The low yield on those balances had a downward impact on the net interest margin in the fourth quarter.
Those balances were virtually zero in the first quarter.
Our use of reverse repurchase agreements will fluctuate from time to time based on seasonal levels of municipal deposits which require authorization.
The day count of 90 days in the first quarter versus 92 days in the linked quarter accounted for an approximate three basis points increase in the margin as well.
As for the balance sheet average loans in the first quarter increased by approximately $830 million for an annualized 7% to $52 billion compared with the fourth quarter.
This reflects the surge of lending activity which came on late in the fourth quarter and which wasn't fully reflected in the average loans for that quarter.
On an end-of-period basis loans grew by $128 million or 1% annualized.
Compared with last year's fourth quarter changes in end-of-period loans by category were as follows: Commercial and industrial loans grew by an annualized 13%.
This reflects continued demand by auto dealers to finance inventory.
This is consistent with the stronger demand for automobiles noted recently in the business press.
All other C&amp;I loans grew an annualized 11% -- at 11% annualized rate reflecting the improved demand across various industries and regions.
Commercial real estate loans declined by an annualized 6%.
Roughly half of this decline came as a result of lower level of held-for-sale multi-family commercial mortgages at March 31 as compared to the end of last year.
Those loans were delivered to the federal housing finance agencies during the first quarter in the normal course of business.
Consumer loans declined by an annualized 9% reflecting the lower level of indirect auto loans as well as weak demand for home equity loans and lines.
Residential real estate loans grew an annualized 16% reflecting a $425 million increase in mortgages held for investment since year-end and an $811 million increase since September 30 of 2010.
These increases were the result of a decision we made at the end of the third quarter to retain a higher proportion of our conforming mortgage originations.
In light of the growth we've seen in C&amp;I lending and also as part of our actions to position the balance sheet in advance of the merger late in the first quarter we decided to resume selling the majority of our conforming mortgage production to the agencies.
We continue to see a favorable mix shift with core deposits replacing wholesale borrowings.
Within core deposits we're also seeing a favorable mix shift with non-interest bearing deposits replacing time deposits.
Demand deposits as of March 31 increased an annualized 18% from December 31 of last year.
Turning to non-interest income.
Non-interest income was $314 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared with $287 million in the linked quarter.
Excluding net securities gains and losses in both periods and the fourth quarter's $28 million pretax gain from the K Bank acquisition non-interest income was $291 million for the recent quarter compared with $286 million in the fourth quarter.
On that same basis non-interest income increased by 2.5% from last year's first quarter despite the negative impact from regulatory changes impacting deposit service charges.
Mortgage banking fees were $45 million for the quarter up from $35 million in the linked quarter.
The primary reason for the improvement was an $11 million lower level of expense associated with the obligation to repurchase certain mortgage loans previously sold as compared to the fourth quarter.
To a lesser degree the decision I just noted to resume selling a higher proportion of our mortgage production to the agencies rather than to retain the loans for investment benefited residual gains on sale revenues.
Service charges on deposit accounts were $110 million during the recent quarter compared with $111 million in the linked quarter.
The normal seasonal decline in debit card interchange and NSF fees was partially offset by higher commercial service charges.
Turning to expense.
Excluding merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible assets operating expenses were $483 million for the first quarter compared with $455 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The first quarter's results included higher compensation expense reflecting seasonally higher salary and benefits costs which include the accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense for certain retirement-eligible employees as well as higher FICA expense unemployment insurance expense and expenses related to the 401(k) match.
In aggregate the expense from these items was some $23 million higher than in the linked quarter.
This is consistent with our experience in each of the past 5 years.
These seasonal factors negatively impacted the efficiency ratio which exclude securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related gains and losses.
The efficiency ratio was 55.8% for the first quarter compared with 52.5% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Next let's cover credit.
Overall credit trends showed some improvement.
Criticized loans outstanding declined from the levels as of year end.
Notably with most institutions now disclosing criticized loans in their 10-K filings it appeared to us that M&amp;T's levels of criticized loans as of year-end compared very favorably to those of our peer group of the largest regional and super-regional banks.
Non-accrual loans decreased to $1.21 billion or 2.32% of loans at the end of March from $1.24 billion or 2.38% of loans at the end of 2010.
Other non-performing assets consisting of assets taken into foreclosure of defaulted loans were $218 million as of the end of the first quarter compared with $220 million as of the end of December 31.
Net charge-offs for the first quarter were $74 million improved from $77 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 58 basis points down from 60 basis points in the linked quarter.
The Provision for Credit Losses was $75 million for the first quarter compared with $85 million in the linked quarter.
The provision exceeded net charge-offs by $1 million and as a result the allowance for loan losses increased to $904 million as of the end of the first quarter of 2011.
The ratio of allowance for credit losses to legacy M&amp;T loans which excludes the acquired loans against which there's a credit mark was 1.81% down slightly from 1.82% in the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of March 31 2011 was 3x annualized net charge-offs for the recent quarter.
We disclosed loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately from non-accrual loans because they are deemed to be well secured and in the process of collection which is to say there's a lower risk of principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due worth $264 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these $215 million or 81% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Those figures were $270 million and $214 million respectively at the end of December.
Turning to capital.
M&amp;T's internal capital generation rate remains strong.
M&amp;T's tangible common equity ratio was 6.44% at the end of the first quarter an increase of 25 basis points from 6.19% at the end of the fourth quarter.
Our estimate of the Tier 1 common ratio as of March 31 is 6.78% up 27 basis points from 6.51% at December 31.
Turning to our outlook.
As I noted at the beginning of the call the trends for the quarter are generally in line with what we've seen over the past three to four quarters.
Loan demand overall appears to be improving although it's stronger on the commercial side.
Deposit flows are continuing.
The net interest margin is relatively stable and the credit continues to improve.
In light of this we don't see anything to alter our outlook for the remainder of the year.
If events play out as we expect we'll close the Wilmington Trust merger sometime this quarter.
And this will likely result in the net interest margin for the combined company to be slightly lower than the stand-alone M&amp;T.
In addition we'll have a larger portfolio of impaired loans in the run-off mode which may subdue reported loan growth for the combined company.
Of course all these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
We'll now open up the call to questions before which Melissa will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Matthew Clark of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just on the Wilmington Trust securities portfolio.
Can you give us a sense for what you plan to do with that? Whether or not you expect to maintain I guess recent levels or is that going to come down? Well I guess the way to look at that Matt is that we're going to try to look at the portfolio as a whole so there's nothing specific that we would do to Wilmington Trust securities portfolio.
But when we look at the whole we're trying to manage the overall level given where our actual loan growth comes out.
So we would just view them as part of our overall discretionary portfolio -- discretionary asset portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I guess with the pending Wilmington Trust deal is it fair to assume that the regulators in order to approve that they're going to want to see you guys with some with either possibly repaying TARP in conjunction with that close or just having a plan in place to repay your -- some point in the future? I guess you kind of asked the question that's on everybody's mind.
For myself I guess we would have hoped to have been able to sort of talk about the fact that we had approval for the deal at this point.
But I think these things are just taking a little bit longer than we expected.
But once we do that as we've said before once we understand where we are with the Wilmington transaction and then we would be able to sort of address questions on the whole capital structure of the bank and what we need to do TARP and those types of things.
So once we get through this first step I think we'll be able to say more on that.
We don't see anything that -- we've answered all the questions.
We think we're -- we would be -- we would guess that we would hear something relatively soon we just haven't heard yet.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly in terms of your guidance I think at the start of the year you had mentioned that you thought provisioning would be moderately lower relative to last year.
Obviously you're coming in a little bit better than I think probably most had expected in terms of provisioning.
Should we expect it to be lumpy? Or can we assume that this trend can continue? Yes.
I mean I guess the one thing that Don and I had been saying for several quarters is that we think that our credit picture would be somewhat lumpy.
And I think that that's probably still the case but I guess one change that we see is that as we look at our classified loan books and relative to a year ago or maybe even 18-months ago the size of the credits are smaller that we've been dealing with.
So I do think that's one nice sort of bit that as you get into a space where you look at your -- not the size of your classified loan book but the size of the individual credits it becomes a little bit more predictable.
So if that helps.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the move I think you mentioned since year-end your criticized assets are down a little bit.
I'm just curious in terms of magnitude how much that might be? Yes I mean so we won't -- because we're putting this in our Q we'll have to give a final number there.
But they were down I would say somewhere in the neighborhood of $100 million or maybe a little bit more so that was encouraging.
I think the other thing that was encouraging was that when you kind of looked at where the improvement came from it didn't come from one sector of the economy.
You saw improvements in transportation a number of transportation companies.
You saw obviously some improvement in real estate and development which was -- those were more from things that we did to work out the process.
But also media-related companies consumer retail companies.
So it was actually nice to just kind of look through the classified loan book by client and type of industry and you got some sense that the improvement wasn't sort of just centered in one space.
Your next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Maybe I'll start the time you had for due diligence on the Wilmington deal was pretty short.
Now you've had a little more time.
Should we expect any changes to where you have disclosed of the fair value marks on the loan book? Well yes.
The time we did -- at the time that we had the announcement you described that pretty well so we were November 1.
What we provided in that presentation was just to be clear was our expectation of credit losses over the life of the loans.
So we didn't do a mark.
We didn't have an interest rate mark in all that in there.
And then what we did is we went back and I think we spent another 11 or 12 days in the month of December and we took another look and sort of set everything up but we didn't see any change in our expectations really at that point in time.
So what we've been doing ever since is just watching as Wilmington goes through their process we're able to look at for example at what they charge off and try to get some sense of whether those are the same credits that we saw -- that we would have predicted would've had some difficulty.
And I would say we haven't had any big material change in what we're thinking.
Obviously they had a fair amount of charge-offs in the fourth quarter and so that's a little accelerated.
But in terms of total content there's nothing really that we've seen that's materially different.
I mean regarding your comments that we should expect capital ratios post-Wilmington deal to be somewhere where they were before you announced it should we be focusing more on regulatory capital ratios PCU ratio? Just where should we be focusing on that? I don't know.
I guess these days you got to focus on them all.
We tend to focus heavily on tangible because that's how our philosophy is going.
But we're looking at all the ratios.
Okay.
And then just one final one.
Looking at the margin looks like cost of deposits is pretty much at a bottom.
And then I guess will go down a bit with the Wilmington deal.
But do you expect to see pressure on the portfolio in terms of NIM just from loan yields continuing to come down? Pressure do I expect to see pressure on the margins? Yes.
I don't know.
I think our margin outlook is very stable.
I think you're right on the liability side.
The thing that we have seen though is we've actually been able to continue to eke out small improvements in part because the time deposit portfolio is repricing.
But also wholesale rates have been down right? They've been markedly down.
But I think the other thing when I step back and look at the margin as a whole for a very very long time we had put on loans and replacing run-off that we're at a much higher margin.
And then I'd say the peak of that was probably somewhere around the first to second quarter of 2009.
And since that time from a match-funded basis we've put on a fair amount of loans right? At a much wider margin that was embedded in the existing portfolio already.
So you kind of see there's no shrinkage of the asset side in terms of yields but I think our margin's going to be pretty stable for a while sans the Wilmington transaction.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Could you walk us through sort of a range of how much you think you have to pump in to Wilmington Trust in terms of capital once you mark the balance sheet for purchase accounting? Well we kind of give you where we're trying to head and then the best thing to do is kind of take a look at essentially what our capital generation is -- rate is.
And I think from where we were that's been a pretty big contributor.
Whether you look at tier 1 common or tangible we're running it somewhere between 25 to 30 basis points a quarter.
And we think that's probably the biggest health -- the most healthy contributor.
But I don't understand what you mean by pump in.
I guess let me ask it another way.
Once you mark the Wilmington balance sheet through purchase accounting is it fair for us to assume that you would want to recapitalize this at let's call it a 5.5% 6% TCE.
Which would -- what you would be comfortable with on a stand-alone basis for your bank? I'll guess I'll just reiterate.
I mean our goal as we kind of work our way through it is to have capital ratios that look a lot like what they looked at before we announced the transaction on November 1.
Okay and in terms I guess to just not talk about...
Erika let me just go back.
If you go back over time we've been very consistent right? As you go back with the -- as we look at where we think we're going to head we make our estimates.
And so generally without some event happening we tend to do a pretty decent job of sort of managing to what we say.
The biggest issue you saw there is why -- that's one of the reasons why we repositioned some of the securities portfolio right? To sort of manage to those levels.
And just trying to figure out what the tail risks could be on the credit side how has the re-default rate on your loan modification portfolio been trending? We have talked about for a very long time that when you compare our statistics to what you get in the OCC's sort of nationally published statistics that actually has fared pretty well and that hasn't changed.
So for example one second if you look at our total re-default rate just got to make sure I'm looking at the total loans here that from 2008 to 2010 it would be something like 35% 35.2%.
And then if you look at non-agency and then if you do a comparison to sort of with the OCC for example and we take various quarters right? So if you look at the average of the quarters from '09 through the second quarter of 2010 so those are seasoned we would be -- we'd be at 25% versus the -- I'm sorry we'd be at 10% versus the OCC at 25%.
And that's just after 6 months of experience.
So very much the same as what we've been tracking before.
The absolute numbers I think are up a little bit but still very good in comparison to what the national averages seem to be.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Thanks guys.
Rene I was wondering if you could update us on your comments for kind of industry NIMs.
I think you started this back in September but you kind of mentioned how we're at peak NIMs I think driven mainly by a slowing deposit cost in our interest rates that aren't going maturity higher at this point.
I know you just kind of said stable NIMs for M&amp;T but do you still think we're kind of at peak levels for the industry? I mean I guess it all depends on what happens with rates.
But if rates were to stay flat right then it's hard to find a lot of catalysts for margin expansion right?  And the thing that I said then and that I still believe is if you were going to show outsize loan growth demand is picking up for example in the C&amp;I space.
But for anybody to produce outside loan growth I think there's a fair amount of pricing competition there and you might actually begin to see some margin compression.
The only exception to that is if somebody has a boatload of securities sitting on their books and they're repricing it too.
But for a relatively balanced portfolio I think it would be hard to create margin expansion today.
Got it.
And then earlier you said you look for a stable NIM here in the next few quarters.
And that's also in light of fact that you'll be going through the Wilmington salvation.
Or is that just on M&amp;T legacy? Well what we said back in January is that we thought that our net interest margin for the full year of 2011 wouldn't be materially different from what it was in 2010.
And I think we're still there.
I think that if I look at where we are at in the quarter maybe it's a little stronger than I had had thought.
And then when you bring in Wilmington for half a year let's say that's going to have some dampening effect.
But again I don't expect it to be all that material.
Having said that when we sit here talking about the third quarter we'll get a better picture of what the run rate is right from the impact of Wilmington.
And that could be down some.
So we'll have to take a look and see.
All right thanks.
Is there any update on your commentary for Indirect Auto? I think also on the prior call you mentioned the competition was kind of heavy there too.
Has that slowed up at all? Or is that even more competitive? I don't think it's changed.
I think that for us it's been competitive for a long time.
I think our volume has been pretty steady.
We're running around somewhere between $60 million to $100 million a month in volume.
When times were when good and we thought we were getting adequate returns in that portfolio it could be a size $200 million right? So it's down quite a bit and hasn't changed too much.
Your next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thanks.
Just a question in terms of reserve release.
Obviously M&amp;T's run at a fairly high level of reserves consistently over the last many years.
When you think about the environment going forward and kind of where you are now how much leverage do you have to potential reserve release excluding the impact of Wilmington of course? Or are you kind of already there? Thanks.
Well yes sure.
I mean I think two things.
I think we summed it up as best we could in the press release is that while we've seen signs in our book that there's some improvement it's hard to ignore the fact that relative to the last 20 years we're at an all-time high in our non-performing book and I would guess as well in our classified book.
So when you look at that you saw some turnaround mid-last year and people were asking "Was that the turnaround?" And then we actually had a couple of upticks right? And now we're coming down a little bit.
So I think that we're cautiously optimistic but to noticeably take the allowance down when you're at an all-time high somehow just doesn't seem to make much sense to us at all.
No I would agree.
I guess maybe then...
I say Ken the other thing is as you look around the corner you look at the facts that may be out there.
But also the overall macro environment for the economy outside the U.S.
it changes rapidly.
And with that level of weakness things could turn around really quickly.
No I know.
Understood.
And then just a quick question on the rising mortgages.
I heard your comment that you said you've stopped -- or you stopped portfolio-ing those.
Are you now done portfolio-ing those going forward now that Wilmington's close to close or is that something you may reconsider in the future? I think that when you look where our assets -- the sensitivity because we're asset sensitive I think that we might reconsider that as we get to the second half of the year.
We've put on about $800 million in mortgages and so now what we're just doing is stopping and we're kind of taking -- stepping back and taking a look at where we're going to fall with our capital ratios and the positioning of our balance sheet up to Wilmington and then we'll have to reconsider post that.
Your next question comes from Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Hey René.
You mentioned a couple of times sort of I guess the focus that the securities and the resi revenue mortgage is driving towards the capital ratios.
Is this really just to get back into that range where you all were at at the third quarter which was the guidance you all had given at the time you had done it? And do you anticipate further securities sales in the second quarter of the year? First question is yes.
And the second question is maybe.
We'll have to see what we need to do.
Okay.
And then I guess it looks like the securities sales that you all did in this quarter isn't fully impacted into the average balances.
So is that going to sort of weigh on the average earning asset growth in the second quarter? There was no impact on average this quarter you're right.
But yes that's right.
You'll see it so just take the average asset and then you can start from there when you think about the second quarter.
Okay and then last question just on the credit front.
Were there any large or notable items that you could share any color on either in terms of charge-offs or non-performers new non-performers? No.
There wasn't anything to our comment about the size of credits.
There were still inflows into non-performing but more outflows.
But nothing really notable.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> I have two questions for you.
The operating expenses jumped up about $28 million this quarter related to the compensation in the FICA seasonality.
Last year it was like $11 million to $15 million.
I was just curious what the difference was this year and why it seemed to be a little bit more amplified.
You're saying that the uptick in FICO was a little higher than last year? LLC</strong> Just looking at your total expenses and we were talking about the reason that it had gone from where it was in the fourth quarter to the first quarter was related to FICA and the option expensing.
You seem to be stronger this year relative to the increase last year.
Yes I wouldn't know of any specific difference in the salary line but it seems to be that would be something from last year.
Yes I mean I don't think so Marty I mean there's nothing unusual there.
If you look at the total amount as we've said in the script I mean it's very very similar to what we saw last year.
The one difference might be that when you look sort of year-over-year of all the categories of expense that we spent a little more this year this first year quarter on technology initiatives that will relate to sort of technology initiatives around the web around deposit deposit products and services around our business banking customers.
So if you're looking at total I would say you look at the other category in professional services are up.
But other than that...
LLC</strong> Okay so that's probably where it's located.
The other thing was your private CMOs have been -- being impaired every quarter.
How do you see that going forward from here? Well this quarter as you look where it was -- I've got to be careful -- there's two different things that you're looking at there.
There's private label residential mortgages which were more of what generated the OTTI in the fourth quarter.
And then these were a different set of securities.
Also sort of residential mortgage-based CMOs that we took charges on but it's a different set of securities right? So as you look at it the total -- if you look at the private label which has generated most of the charges that's actually come down over time.
And I would guess that might have been somewhere around $4 million or $5 million relative to what you saw last quarter.
And then this other group of securities came in.
So it's hard to say it depends on how long we see the weakness in the housing market.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing was we're -- saying we're asset sensitive and our long-term margins have been closer to $350 million.
If we're asset sensitive rates go up and the margin would start to improve.
What's been the fundamental shift in the core margin that you think really places us in a much better sustainable level than where we've been in the past? Well first of all in M&amp;T our time horizons are very long so I'll caveat this with that.
But I mean we've been through a very long period trying to see what it will be where our margins that we're getting on originations are just higher because the capital markets shut down.
And I would say that if you look for example since maybe the first or second quarter of '09 take C&amp;I or take all of the commercial lending that's actually -- those origination margins have come down steadily but they're still -- they're still I would say almost in some cases 90 basis points higher than what we were running in 2006 and 2007 right? So I think that's a fundamental change for some time.
Now guess what? When the economy heats up and the capital markets come back I wouldn't be surprised to see more margin pressure then.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Rene on the Wilmington deal can you talk a little bit about your expectations to be able to realize the tax benefit on the NOLs on the DTA there? Yes.
I mean I don't know if I can add anything to what we've said in the past but I can talk about kind of how it works.
And I would say that if you think about it from a simple GAAP perspective versus a regulatory perspective we'll be able to -- our view is that we'll be able to realize a lot of the deferred tax items that they lost so to speak.
I can't tell you the exact amount in part because of the fact that your allowance or disallowance I forgot which one it is is dependent upon the price of the deal and where our share price is at the close.
But I can say it's fair to say that we'll recapture a fair amount of that.
But when you look at the point of the close of the deal from a regulatory perspective you can only look out one year in your earnings capabilities.
And with all the onetime expenses and other types of things to convert it sort of limits in the first year your amount that you can use for your regulatory ratios.
You obviously over time get a lot of that back but it's somewhat limited.
Okay.
All right.
And then that that GAAP benefit would be more likely be immediate whereas the regulatory therefore could be a little bit more protracted then? Yes exactly you'd see that right away.
Okay.
All right.
And then on the capital front I know you mentioned that you really are not going to be in too much of a position to talk TARP until you get more clarity on the closing of the Wilmington transaction.
But can you talk about where you expect that -- from a Tier 1 common perspective obviously you've seen some of your peers go to 9% or north of 9% in terms of a payback but you would expect that you may be able to come in below that.
Could you just talk about your expectations of how M&amp;T could possibly get some credit for doing the Wilmington deal and also given your positioning with the regulators historically where -- how that may weigh in? Let me tell you what I can say.
I mean the way in which we monitor our capital levels we don't just look at the ratio.
Obviously with the new ratio coming out there being 7% Tier 1 common obviously we have to focus on that.
But underlying what we do is we look at the quality of our loan book in particular and the other risks that are in our balance sheet and we look at that relative to the capital that we have.
And if we saw that we had a weakening credit or a worse position obviously we'd have to hold higher capital.
When we think about where we are today and we said this for some time we're generating capital very very quickly right? So if you take our estimate that we gave you of Tier 1 common and just exclude Wilmington for a minute we're already at 6.78% somewhere in that neighborhood right? So a 1/4 or 2 you're at 7% and then you're quickly kind of getting yourself well above right? So when we think about it obviously we'll have to be above the regulatory guidance.
But what the number is is going to be really dependent on any given time by the quality of our loan book and what we see underneath.
The other thing I would say to you is that you're not really looking at normalized numbers yet.
I mean you see that a number of people out there some larger than us some are -- particularly are showing 2 numbers.
They're showing that maybe they'll be at 9% or 10% today but if you converted that down to Basel III particularly a number of people with their derivative books and those types of things that they're closer to 7% right? So my sense is that you're going to have to keep some sort of cushion above the 7%.
And the size of that cushion will change over time depending on what you see in the quality of your loan book.
But I don't think we're an outlier especially when you kind of consider the remaining pending rules that are out there.
Okay.
All right.
And then lastly in terms of the loan growth outlook can you give us an idea about where your commercial line utilization stands as of now? I don't have the same.
I mean what I can tell you is at about -- I'll grab that for you in a minute but about half of the improvement we saw this quarter on an asset basis came from improved line utilization and half came from just new customers or new balances.
We were up slightly.
A utilization that we track was 49.3 versus 48.7.
And then the total commitments were up from year-end but down from September 30.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
René I was just wondering.
Wilmington I don't believe did a report this quarter.
Can you give us any update as far as to how core trends in the Wilmington side are looking? Maybe either just on pretax pre-provision income or whatever metric you might have and could share with us on the core business? Well yes.
I mean obviously I can't comment on their earnings right? That's in their core.
And I guess I can say that there's nothing that I see that surprises us from any of the original works that we did.
We didn't see anything materially different.
Obviously they've got a number of run-off portfolios and whether that be through just normal run-off of those portfolios or through -- on the loan book or through charge-offs right? Balances keep coming down.
You probably saw that at the end of the fourth quarter though.
Inc.</strong> Right okay.
And then just one clarification on your NIM comps again.
So you're talking about the pro forma margin would be a little bit lower with Wilmington.
Is that inclusive of any accretable yield that would also come via the transaction? Or is that just mashing the two balance sheets together? No that's the whole deal.
I can only come up with one number.
Inc.</strong> That's fine.
I just wanted to make sure that it was in fact one number and that we're still going to -- so that's inclusive of your current views of what accretable yield might be post-merger? Yes that's right.
And then Ken just one just to be very clear so what I'm saying is the thing that's not terribly affected I don't believe is the full year margin.
Part of that's because you've only got six months of Wilmington.
It might get a bit larger effect when we get into what I would call the run rate.
Inc.</strong> I understand.
So if we're a little bit above it and you're talking not much material versus the full year 2010 then the second half reset might be a little bit bigger just to get to that averaging affect? Exactly yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my last question is just on the Mortgage Banking business.
I heard your comments about the gain on sale margins being still strong but maybe coming down a little bit.
So just trying to understand that line item because there's a lot of things in it.
You mentioned the lower repurchase losses and then -- but last quarter you were still keeping more than you were selling.
So I guess if you could just give us kind of a general understanding of all things equal how that line item should kind of work going forward with you now starting to sell more of it than keep it.
Good question.
Well I guess the way I'd say it is that the most of the decline that you saw this quarter came from the lower repurchase costs.
And those numbers were something like last quarter was about $14 million and this quarter it was somewhere around $3 million.
So you're kind of -- I guess the good news is you're kind of at a low point there right? So it's relatively clean.
And I would then say that if you look at the impact from changing the repurchase well maybe that was a smaller amount.
I guess I don't know how to say it but if you just assume most of the change there was from the repurchase risk I think you're probably at a pretty good starting base.
Inc.</strong> Right but when we go back last quarter you wouldn't have sold much.
In this quarter you would be selling more.
So technically all things equal wouldn't you have more mortgage banking revenues next quarter? Yes but I mean you got most of -- I mean how do I say this? It might have been about $7 million impact or something like that this quarter of a positive right? So that's a pretty big positive.
So you remember when you look at our average mortgage banking income right? You got three big items: you got residential mortgage service originations you've got commercial mortgage originations and you've got servicing.
Servicing's a big piece as well.
So a $7 million swing tells you that you got a fair amount of the impact a pretty good impact in the first quarter.
I guess maybe it's a little larger as you go to the second quarter but I kind of think of it as a relatively normal quarter.
The first quarter being the relatively normal.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC</strong> René a question for you.
Do you have a sense -- the larger banks of course have a good sense about Basel III and the impact to capital.
I'm interested in what you're hearing from the Federal Reserve for banks your size.
When do you get some color on what the capital ratios would be for the non-Basel banks in the United States? It's a good question.
I'll try to get too far to it.
One when you take Basel III and you kind of run through it and assuming we would be under it we just based on the types of business we're in we don't have a really significant impact.
The example I'd give you is maybe we're at mortgage servicing rights which is one of the issues.
Maybe it's in the three-ish range of our capital nowhere near 10 right? We don't have a lot of trade derivative trading.
So I don't expect there to be any big material impact even if we were under it.
The real question that's out there is more on the last topic to come which is sort of liquidity right? And liquidity coverage ratios.
And given that we're a predominantly deposit-funded institution right? That's going to be the big question out there and whether they treat everybody equal.
And as you well know as you went through the storm and as we went through past storms our deposit portfolio holds up pretty well.
And I think that's an area where we're out there asking questions and seeing if we're all going to be treated as one.
But there really isn't much of an answer yet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks about the seasonality of the commercial real estate portfolio half of the decline was attributed to that.
What about the other half of the decline and what are you seeing in commercial real estate? Are you losing the more aggressive competitors or no you're still in there fighting the fight? What's going on in commercial real estate? Yes.
I mean I think much of what you see that's holding that down a little bit is probably years of nonperformance or payoffs right? You've got a couple of run-off portfolios there.
I would say that how do I say this? We haven't seen big growth.
If you were focused on looking for growth and doing transactions there's plenty of it out there at decent margins.
But generally it's been pretty slow.
The positive news I think in the real estate space is that there are transactions happening.
Investors are in the market.
So that really helps you in terms of when someone's looking to refinance or whether you have to restructure a transaction.
That's been the most positive thing that we have heard.
The other thing I think that's been out is the sort of resurgence a little bit of some of the conduits and we've heard rumors of that or they've come back a little bit and they're expecting to do some volume.
But I'll give you a sense.
We asked -- we have a survey of our customers that we do.
And on the CRE side we asked "How do you feel about the availability of CRE financing over the next 6 months?" And 57% of those customers ranked it as sufficient when they're thinking about regional banks.
And in July that was just 45%.
And then 53% said it was sufficient up from 41% when the talks about the capital markets.
So generally people are feeling that credit is more available they're interested in doing things.
It just hasn't resulted in a lot of loan growth I think because I think there's still a lot runoff in the overall portfolios that are in properties being worked out.
And if I were a real estate investor I would go for the low-hanging fruit first.
LLC</strong> No doubt.
And then one final question.
On the commercial loan book you've referenced utilization rates improving.
Two questions: one geographically within your footprint are you seeing more demand for commercial loans in Upstate New York versus the Maryland versus the Pennsylvania market? And then second what yields are you putting commercial loans on the book at today if your average yield if I'm reading it correctly here is 3.93%? What's the new -- what are the new loans coming in on at this time? Well let me answer the last question first.
I'm not going to give you a ton of specifics there but I mean we fund -- primarily the C&amp;I loans are funded with LIBOR.
So LIBOR our spreads are to LIBOR.
So look at 25 to 30 basis points is really what really one month's LIBOR should be somewhere in that range over time.
So pretty healthy margins when you kind of come to the yield.
We've seen loan growth that's kind of -- we've seen loan growth that's been strong kind of across-the-board.
I mean if I look at our middle market space we had -- and if I look at it as an asset basis we kind of get rid of the big fourth quarter year-end effect there we had loan growth that was pretty decent in Upstate New York.
We had it in what we call our Metro region which is sort of everything from Tarrytown to New York Philadelphia.
We had growth in the Baltimore and Chesapeake area.
So just about everybody is participating.
If you look at the average growth I'll give you another example.
We had 9% growth on an average basis in Upstate New York 21% in Metro annualized growth 7% in PA 3% in the Mid-Atlantic.
And then if you look at what types of companies they cover the gamut.
So service companies media-type businesses distribution businesses.
I mentioned transportation earlier.
So it covers the gamut.
Your next question comes from Collyn Gilbert of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> A lot of my questions actually surrounded what Gerard just asked.
But just going back on the CRE side René you said transactions are happening.
If you want to do them they're out there.
And given the growth rate that you just said in the Metro area of 21% do we assume then that you're in it? That you're in the flow of the transactions and your kind of appetite to do large real estates deals is there? Or maybe kind of just talk about your appetite for putting on large deals and how you're structuring.
I mean how you're thinking about the rate environment with those types of transactions.
Yes sure.
I mean there's no change from what we would do in the past.
And I guess my comment would be that our loan growth but for on the CRE side a little bit in the fourth quarter has been relatively subdued.
And that's not because we couldn't do transaction-type stuff if we wanted to it's just not where we operate.
So we tend to focus on our pre-existing customers and people that we've known for a very very long time.
And I would suggest that -- but for the end of last year the loan growth hasn't been that great and it really hasn't been that much of a change in sort of actually there hasn't been any change in the way we think about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay so no change then in kind of the loan sizes in terms of what's rolling off the relationships or the loan sizes that are rolling off versus what you're putting on? No no nothing there.
That's one of the reasons why we kind of disclosed that in our annual report.
You can see the mix and size of the deals and if we were to have a big change you'd see that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then just one final kind of point on clarification.
In the press release you had indicated I think if I have this right part of your desirability is to sort of increase liquidity it said with anticipation.
Was it of average strong loan growth or something like that? But trying to reconcile that because it doesn't seem as if average loan growth was all that strong in the first quarter.
Is that what you're anticipating in the second quarter given timing of closings? No the average was up almost $1 billion right? It was $830 million I think it was.
And of course as we -- relative to where we were on November 1 those numbers are even higher than that right? And then when you consider the fact that we had put on $800 million of resis [residentials] right? We have a fair amount of loan growth I guess.
I guess I would say we'd have more loans that we probably would have anticipated back when we were sitting there on November 1.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay you said...
We had a couple of things going on right? We had over $1 billion of loan growth from November to December right? And on top of that we've put on since September $800 million of discretionary assets right? Through the resis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
I got you.
That was year-over-year.
That's what threw me.
Okay okay.
That's all I had thanks.
Your next question comes from Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
Rene was kind of beating the capital question to death.
But I want to ask a couple of questions more from an M&amp;A perspective.
A number of the foreign banks seem to be heating up speculation in terms of potential acquisitions returning here to the States whether it's some of the European banks or Canadian banks.
It seems like there are an increasing of opportunities potentially coming your way in your footprint if you will.
So I guess on the one hand how do you size -- given kind of what you guys have done over the last 12 to 18 months a number of transactions but how do you now view kind of or size future opportunities post-Wilmington within your respective markets per se? And then secondarily as everyone asked a capital question does it change your view at all? I mean as long as I've been following you it's always been about capital formation.
But yet the opportunities on the M&amp;A side seem to be increasing not diminishing for the likes of an M&amp;T.
What does that potentially mean in terms of how you view capital? Yes I guess I'd start off by agreeing with you and the fact that in this broad environment and as kind of has been proven right? That there's more opportunities that are out there.
And then within that opportunity set you've got to think about what types of things does M&amp;T typically do.
And what I keep saying is that at least history has shown and probably our preferred way to do things is with partnerships where people kind of stay in to the pre-existing organization.
You saw that with Provident and Gary Geisel being on our board and on all stock kind of transactions.
So when you kind of think about that the idea that you might stock up and store capital because you're going to go out and buy something really doesn't fit that type of profile right? Our thought process is that if we would happen to need capital at the time and the opportunity was that attractive then we'd go out and get it.
But at the end of the day if our shareholders weren't giving us capital for the transaction I guess we'd probably better think twice before doing it right? So I think you're right the environment is there there's a lot -- the population is large but as we kind of move forward and try to look for people who are looking to sort of continue on with a stronger combined organization we think that generally the capital issues have at least historically tended to take care of themselves.
Right and I don't mean to imply hoard capital for the sake of hoarding capital maybe you'll do a deal.
But I guess it's more along the lines again that the opportunities actually seem to be increasing not diminishing for the likes of M&amp;T.
And given this idea that M&amp;T historically has preferred to improve capital organically as opposed to go out and dilute existing shareholders I'm just wondering if something out there may change your mind on that point in terms of having to raise for equity capital for the sake of perhaps a transaction.
I think for that to happen I think we have to see it.
We have to physically see the deal in front of us right?  And one way to think about it is we're pretty plain vanilla.
And so we're not out there speculating a lot.
We do see what you're talking about in terms of the environment of potential opportunity.
But having said that I think our nature is to just deal with what's in front of us and that sort of served us well and so far so we don't think it's different today.
And you don't think Wilmington limits you in any way? You're not looking at the world any differently because of Wilmington? No.
I mean I think I'll say it again in a different way but the idea that we would be able to bring on Wilmington and have our capital ratios not be materially different right? I think gives you the answer.
And the idea that we would do two or three of those at once doesn't really make too much sense because we've got to do it right right? So we'll focus on Wilmington.
We've got to get it closed then we've actually got to get it converted.
And that's what our sort of big task is today.
And then what we've seen over time is that we can do that relatively quickly so it doesn't take us off the table for what might come next.
Your final question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Adam James [ph] calling in for Matt O'Connor.
I have a couple of questions regarding the Wilmington acquisition.
One of them is just a clarification item.
Wilmington actually had around $70 million of OREO expenses in 2010 which was about 10% of their non-interest expense.
Regarding your 15% guidance figure how much of that was actually factored in? Because I'd guess that a good chunk of that would just go away after the loans were marked at acquisition.
Adam can you just give me that again? 15% what? You gave a guidance figure of 15% of Wilmington's I guess non-interest expense for their full year percentages.
Yes.
In terms of like what's included in that figure Wilmington had around $70 million of OREO expense alone which was 10% of their expense base.
Was that something that was specifically looked at when you came up with that 15%? No.
We wouldn't look at that.
We wouldn't do anything with that.
We would just look at the core infrastructure of the institution when we're coming up for the costs.
So that 15% would just be taken right off the top or if that would be removed first...
Think of it this way.
You take the expense base you don't consider that ORE expense and then you get 15% of the combined of the institution from the rest of the categories.
Okay got it.
The second one was just on the side of revenue synergies.
It's something you've discussed before but just curious as to if -- when the Wilmington wealth management services would actually be -- start being offered to M&amp;T legacy customers.
As soon as we get approval and close the deal I think then we'd be free and clear.
And I think there's some pent-up demand for that as well already so we're cautiously optimistic about that.
But we got to get the deal closed and we got to merge the holding company.
Okay.
That's pretty much it for me.
Great.
Thanks guys.
That was your final question.
I'll now turn it back to management for closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melissa and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release that we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As you know the recent quarter was an eventful one for M&amp;T.
A few items worth noting specifically were the closing of the merger with Wilmington Trust a purchase of Wilmington Trust TARP preferred stock from the U.S.
Treasury immediately prior to the closing the future further repositioning of M&amp;T's balance sheet in connection with the merger our issuance of $500 million of perpetual preferred stock and our action to retire $370 million of M&amp;T's own TARP preferred stock.
I'll cover the highlights from the earnings release as well as the impact from these items.
And then I'll take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers for the second quarter of 2011 diluted earnings per common share were $2.42 up from $1.59 in the prior quarter and up 66% from $1.46 in last year's second quarter.
Net income for the recent quarter was $322 million compared with $206 million in the linked quarter and $189 million in last year's second quarter.
Completion of the merger with Wilmington Trust during the quarter resulted in a net after-tax gain of $42 million or $0.33 per common share.
The net gain is comprised of a non-taxable gain of $65 million which was partially offset by after-tax merger-related expenses of $23 million.
M&amp;T's results for the first quarter of 2011 included $3 million of after-tax merger-related expenses amounting to $0.02 per share.
We expect additional merger-related expenses will be incurred in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.
There were no merger-related expenses in the year-ago quarter.
Results for the recent quarter included $51 million of net after-tax securities gains amounting to $0.41 per common share.
These net gains were the result of our continued program to reposition the balance sheet so as to enhance both capital ratios and the liquidity profile of the combined M&amp;T and Wilmington Trust.
During the second quarter we sold securities with an aggregate book value of $1.2 billion including just over $1 billion of agency MBS and some $200 million of credit-sensitive trust-preferred securities and trust-preferred CDOs.
Gains from these sales were partially offset by other-than-temporary impairment charges in our portfolio of private label MBS.
Net after-tax security gains in this year's first quarter were $14 million or $0.12 per common share.
To partially replace the securities that were sold we purchased $1.2 billion of lower risk-weighted Ginnie Mae pass-throughs during the recent quarter.
While we have completed our sale of securities the reinvestment into lower risk-weighted assets will likely extend into this year's third quarter.
Also included in our GAAP earnings for this year's second quarter was the after-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets amounting to $9 million or $0.07 per common share.
This compares with $7 million or $0.06 per common share in the linked quarter and $9 million or $0.07 per common share in the year-ago quarter.
Net operating income which excludes the amortization of intangibles as well as merger-related items I mentioned was $289 million or $2.16 per common share for the second quarter of 2011 compared with $216 million or $1.67 per common share in the linked quarter and $198 million or $1.53 per common share in last year's second quarter.
As previously noted immediately prior to the closing of the merger we purchased $330 million of Wilmington Trust TARP preferred stock that had been issued to the U.S.
Treasury Department.
That stock was then retired through the consummation of the merger.
In addition we retired $370 million of TARP preferred stock that M&amp;T had issued to the Treasury Department.
This purchase resulted in the partial acceleration of the amortization of the discount on that preferred stock which was reflected as a net after-tax $9 million decrease to our net income available to common shareholders.
Lastly we issued $500 million of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock during this quarter.
This issue has a fixed 6.875% non-cumulative dividend.
It's called to at par in 5 years and also has a regulatory event call at par as well should it no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital.
This issue also had a minimal impact on M&amp;T's results for the recent quarter.
As under GAAP dividends for this stock are recorded when declared.
In accordance with the guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
The annualized return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.69% and 24.4% for the recent quarter compared with 1.36% and 20.16% in the first quarter of 2011.
Excluding the net securities gains from both periods return on average on tangible assets was 1.39% and the return on tangible equity was 19.75% in the second quarter of 2011.
Those ratios were 1.27% and 18.75% respectively in the prior quarter.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $593 million for the second quarter of 2011 up 3% from $575 million in the first quarter of 2011 primarily reflecting the impact of the Wilmington Trust merger.
While net interest income was in line with our expectations the net interest margin was a bit lower due to higher amounts of cash held at the Fed or in resale agreements which collateralized our municipal deposits.
The net interest margin was 3.75% during the second quarter compared with 3.92% in the sequential quarter.
Lower levels of prepayment penalties cash basis interest and loan fees accounted for 4 basis points of the decline.
The high level of cash held at the Fed and invested in resale agreements accounted for some 8 basis points of the decline.
Our ability to deploy these balances into higher-yielding investments over the near term could help mitigate this impact in the second half of 2011.
The remaining impact from the Wilmington Trust merger excluding its contribution to the higher cash balances I just mentioned was approximately 4 basis points.
Finally the day count of 91 days in the second quarter versus 90 days in the linked quarter accounted for approximately 1 basis point of the decline.
As for the balance sheet average loans for the second quarter increased by approximately $3.5 billion to $55.5 billion as compared with this year's first quarter reflecting the partial quarter impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition.
Loan growth excluding Wilmington Trust was 2% annualized as compared to the first quarter.
On the same on that same basis commercial &amp; industrial loans grew by an annualized 9%.
This reflects somewhat lower demand by auto dealers to finance inventory but 10% annualized growth in all other C&amp;I categories.
Commercial real-estate loans declined an annualized 1% and consumer loans declined an annualized 4% reflecting a lower level of indirect auto loans as well as weak demand for home equity lines.
Residential real estate loans grew an annualized 13%.
M&amp;T continued to see strong growth in deposits during the second quarter.
Average core deposits excluding the impact from Wilmington Trust were up $1.2 billion or 10% annualized.
About half of that increase was in non-interest-bearing demand deposits.
At June 30 2011 M&amp;T's as-at balance sheet included almost $2.7 billion of cash held at the Fed or in other short-term assets.
Non-interest -- turning to net non-interest income non-interest income was $502 million for the second quarter of 2011 compared with $314 million in the linked quarter.
Excluding net securities gains and losses in both periods the second quarter's $65 million -- and the second quarter's $65 million gain from Wilmington Trust acquisition non-interest income was $353 million for the recent quarter compared with $291 million in the first quarter.
Service charges on deposit accounts were $120 million during the recent quarter compared with $110 million in the linked quarter.
Just over half the improvement was the result of a return to normal levels of activity from the seasonal decline in debit card interchange and NSF fees experienced during the first quarter.
The remainder of the improvement was attributable to the merger.
Trust income was $76 million during the recent quarter.
Now the increase from $29 million in the linked quarter was substantially all attributable to the Wilmington Trust merger.
Mortgage banking fees were $42 million for the second quarter down from $45 million in the linked quarter.
The merger had no material impact on mortgage banking revenues in the second quarter.
I should also note that as of July 1 we began to retain our in-footprint conforming mortgage production again.
Turning to expenses excluding merger-related expenses and amortization of intangible assets operating expenses were $525 million for the second quarter compared with $483 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The increase is attributable to the impact from the merger partially offset by lower levels of compensation expense which would return to more normal levels following the first quarter's seasonally high expenses relating to annual incentive -- the annual incentive compensation cycle.
In total expenses were well controlled.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related gains or losses was 55.6% for the second quarter compared with 55.8% in the first quarter of 2011.
Next let's turn to credit.
Overall credit trends continued to show improvement.
Nonaccrual loans increased to $1.26 billion as of June 30 from $1.21 billion as of March 31.
The increase entirely relates to some $77 million of nonaccrual of Wilmington Trust loans acquired through the merger.
These loans represent commercial revolving lines of credit to builders and developers and which are being managed by our work-out group with M&amp;T.
Because of their structure because of their structure as evolving loans they are counted -- they are not accounted for as purchased impaired loans under GAAP.
However because they are acquired loans they do have fair value marks applied to them.
Beyond these acquired loans nonaccrual loans declined during the second quarter.
Nonaccrual loans as a percentage of total loans were 2.15% at the end of the recent quarter improved from 2.32% at the end of March.
This reflects the addition of the Wilmington Trust Loan portfolio including fair value marks to total loans.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken in foreclosure of defaulted loans were $159 million as of the end of the second quarter down from $218 million as of the end of the first quarter.
The improvement reflects the sale of our largest ORE property with a carrying value of $99 million during the second quarter partially offset by the addition of $57 million of ORE properties acquired through the merger and which were also recorded at fair value.
Net charge-offs for the second quarter were $59 million improved from $74 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 43 basis points down from 58 basis points in the linked quarter.
The Provision for credit losses were $63 million in the second quarter compared with $75 million in the linked quarter.
The provision exceeded charge-offs by $4 million.
And as a result the allowance for loan losses increased to $908 million as of the end of the second quarter.
The ratio of allowance to credit losses to legacy M&amp;T loans which excludes acquired loans was 1.80% down slightly from 1.81% at the end of the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of June 30 2011 was 3.8x annualized net charge-offs for the recent quarter.
Loans past due 90 days or more but still accruing were $373 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans 207 are guaranteed by government-related -- $207 million are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Included in past due loans were $130 million of loans obtained in the Wilmington Trust merger.
Loans past due 90 days or more were $264 million at the end of the linked quarter of which $215 million were guaranteed by government-related entities.
Finally while we'll publish the final level of criticized loans in our 10-Q filing we anticipate that we'll report an improvement from the levels that existed at the end of the first quarter.
Turning to capital as we targeted it at that time of the merger announcement last fall M&amp;T's capital ratios at the end of the second quarter met or exceeded those that existed at September 30 2010 before the Wilmington Trust merger was announced.
M&amp;T's tangible common equity ratio was 6.28% at the end of the second quarter down from 6.44% at the end of the linked quarter as a result of the merger.
The ratio is up 9 basis points from 6.19% as of the end of 2010 and up 53 basis points from 5.75% at June 30 2010.
Our estimate of Tier 1 -- of the Tier 1 common ratio as of June 30 is 6.66% also down from 6.78% as of March 31 but up 15 basis points from the end of last year and up 51 basis points from the 6.15% at the end of last year's second quarter.
Tangible book value per share was $37 per share at the end of the recent quarter up 8% from $34.38 at the end of the linked quarter and up 19% from $31.15 at the end of the year-earlier quarter.
Turning to our outlook despite all the noise in the quarter relating to the merger the balance sheet repositioning and the capital action we were encouraged by most of the underlying trend.
Credit continues to improve as evidenced by the declines in nonperforming assets and charge-offs.
Commercial loan demand is good considering the overall state of the economy.
That said consumers continue to delever as reflected in the continued tepid demand for home equity products and by flows into deposit products.
I'd also note that following the merger we now have a larger portfolio of loans primarily construction loans that will be considered in our runoff portfolio.
As I noted earlier the decline in the printed net interest margin doesn't reflect lower levels of income so much as the expected margin pressure from Wilmington Trust loan portfolio in addition to the excess liquidity that we have to deploy.
As we invest some portion of the cash over to Fed into additional investment securities over the coming quarters it should serve to somewhat a -- serve somewhat as a means of offset to the expected full quarter impact from Wilmington Trust.
All in we'd expect our net interest margin for the coming quarters to be slightly lower than the second quarter margin of 3.75%.
The bulk of the expense synergies arising from the merger are still to be realized with our loan and deposit conversions yet to have occurred.
However the merger was still slightly accretive to net operating earnings per share in the second quarter.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
Before which Melissa will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Are you still targeting about $80 million in cost saves for Wilmington Trust? And I apologize if you mentioned this in your prepared remarks.
We haven't changed anything from our initial announcement.
I think we said that we're targeting 15% cost saves and we would get the full run rate of those saves by the end of 2012.
So we still have the same assumption.
And I just wanted to clarify what you were mentioning with regards to the purchase impaired loans.
You couldn't put that through purchase accounting but the fair value mark is the credit mark and you couldn't put it through purchase accounting because of the revolver structure so there isn't an interest rate mark.
Is that what that was or? Well no.
A couple of things.
There is an interest rate mark.
So the way you think about it is you take a look at the loan portfolio in all of the exposure and you determine what the fair value is.
And then for those loans that are classified as nonperforming in today's vernacular they would be purchased impaired loans and they would be put into a separate category.
The only exception that we have there is that for revolving lines of credit tied to a loan in work out you're not allowed to include those in those categories.
So the treatment is exactly the same right? So they're just not eligible for SOP 03-3.
Got it.
And I appreciate the guidance on the overall NIM.
But could you give us a sense in terms of what you're seeing with regards to potential pricing competition in your -- in C&amp;I and internal commercial real-estate? Yes.
So when you -- the short answer is not much has changed.
If I look at the volume of what came to our committee this quarter interestingly enough it was at slightly higher margins than last quarter.
But that probably doesn't change the overall trend that we've seen over the past quarters as institutions have gotten healthy.
And as loan demand has remained weak pricing is pretty competitive.
So when you look at like sort of a time series of the margins we were booking over time you definitely see sort of a downward pressure.
Early on we've said that that was with banks that had a lot of liquidity that were smaller.
But today I think you see it across just most of the competition.
I'm thinking in Pennsylvania we seem to see some interesting pricing from 2 different types of banks those that have a lot of liquidity and actually those that normally don't.
But I think today -- in today's position like us now are carrying large amounts of cash that are uninvested because people keep not investing and actually are building up cash balances.
Your next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
I guess probably just the easy one for you just on TARP.
If you could just address what your plans or how you're thinking about the remaining piece versus the partial repayment you've already done and kind of how those reconcile? Yes I mean I thought was that from the transaction we did in the second quarter obviously a lot of moving pieces.
But what I thought is that we would pay the remaining part in due course.
And generally the way we think about it is that we wanted to be able to generate use our earnings generation and over a period of time we'll be able to pay it off.
We don't have a long time horizon for it but we'd have to go back and go through that process to make the remaining payment.
So I can't really articulate on the timeframe but it's -- we're not looking way out there.
Our intention is to retire the TARP in the near term.
Okay okay.
Understood.
And then just a question on the resi mortgage portfolio that you're retaining your originated portfolio again.
Can you maybe walk us through what kind of spreads you're getting on that? I mean I guess I'm just thinking comparing or looking at some of the thrifts which are still not willing to write resi why are you guys more willing to do so when -- just given where mortgage rates are right now? Yes Sure.
Well I mean it's a good question.
I guess if you'd just -- it's a really fundamental thing for us right? So if you look at all the securities that we could buy we're very low on securities.
In fact I think if you look at securities across our peer banks we might be among if not the lowest in terms of security as a percentage of assets.
So we're very asset sensitive and it's our intention to sort of not let that asset sensitivity to expand a lot more.
Maybe we want to reduce it a little bit.
And if you think about what we could buy most of the securities have a mortgage component to them right? So at the end of the day our thought process is it's just more efficient to buy -- to retain our own rather than paying a transaction fee for somebody else's fixed-rate assets.
It's just as simple as that.
Intuitively they're all coming from the market so they should be priced appropriately minus the guarantees so.
And do you guys have any targets for how much you want to retain this round? No.
We'll retain a fair amount of our production.
Think about it this way Ken.
I think we had $300 million of core loan growth this quarter and we had $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion of deposit growth.
So if I gave you a number I'd have to give you new number right? There's a need for fixed-rate assets just to manage the risk position.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> René could you just probably break us -- break out like you did for the fees the added expenses from the Wilmington side? I wish I could.
The fees are a lot easier because you're just pulling over their GL.
But I can tell you what I can give you an estimate of what I think M&amp;T's core expenses is it's probably the easier thing.
But remember a lot of Wilmington expense is associated with people that we've hired to do the operations and all the things that are in M&amp;T's thought centers.
But give me a second and I can probably give you a view.
One second.
It's pretty hard to do.
I would guess if I looked at it -- I would say if you look at overall expenses for M&amp;T they were down about $10 million quarter linked quarter-over-quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And that's typical for M&amp;T because you usually have that high FICA balance in the first? That's right.
Yes on the compensation side.
Inc.</strong> Because I mean if I just look at it it looks like the Wilmington expense base is already coming on at a much lower run rate than it was pre-merger.
And I just don't -- I wanted to make sure that I'm not double counting expense saves versus what your -- what's already kind of gone from the company.
No M&amp;T expenses are down.
M&amp;T's expenses are down linked quarter and it's a little difficult to tell you exactly how much.
For example the comp is down like $21 million on the linked-quarter basis just excluding Wilmington.
Inc.</strong> Okay right.
So what I'm asking is that it seems like the Wilmington -- then if I just do that math and exclude the merger charges the Wilmington add run rate looks to be a lot smaller than it was a couple of quarters ago pre-merger.
And would you consider that as part of cost saves when you think about that 15% total? No.
I mean we haven't gotten much if any cost saves to date.
And remember it also gets confusing because you've -- we bought it on May 16 right? What they took on their books in the first 45 days versus what we took at 50 it's a hard estimate to make.
So I think the best way to think about it is we have very little cost saves in the numbers today.
All we've done is on a legal merger.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So whatever you -- okay.
so from today's base the cost saves would still come from here yes? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question is just about -- can you walk us through -- you've got the recapture the DTA and GAAP so that helped on the TCE side.
Did you -- were you able to recapture any of the Wilmington DTA in Tier 1 common? And can you just kind of talk us through how that will roll in over time? Yes.
Yes sure.
I mean so at the deal we had -- I don't know about $180 million to $200 million when we announced our deal Wilmington had of deferred tax that they couldn't use.
And that expanded up to about $292 million by the time we closed the deal.
We could use all of that for GAAP purposes as you kind of mentioned because M&amp;T's earnings were so strong and we were able to use it.
We disallowed about a little more than $130 million related to the deferred taxes created by Wilmington also created by the deal.
So that amount would be something that to the extent that we remain profitable over the course of the year as you roll you would be able eventually to realize that.
But you just can't do it out of the gate because the regulators limit you to a one year -- 12-month look forward.
Your next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JP Morgan.
Maybe I'll start.
What was the amount of discount accretion included in the second quarter net interest income from Wilmington? And how should we think about our run rate there? Discount accretion.
This is the accretable yield issue I think? Yes yes.
Okay.
I'll tell you the way think about it.
So you've always had this issue right? You mark the assets and then you've got to take the mark back in to the yield.
The way we think about it at M&amp;T and the way we've been doing our marks is that we try to keep our very conservative -- consistent conversative culture on the credit side right? So we think when we give the credit mark we're focusing on keeping that solely around credit.
We think it's a pretty conservative way to do it and it's actually the people doing it are the same people who are underwriting M&amp;T loans right? So then when we come back to looking at the yields on those acquired assets essentially they should be pretty close to what we could -- what M&amp;T could generate a yield on any particular asset category today right? The only adjustment would be that if it's depending on the credit nature the credit grade of the loan.
So for us you're not getting a lot of yield inflation right beyond what it would cost you to have booked an M&amp;T loan in a particular category on May 16.
And I kind of give it to you that way because when I look at the yields I look at them almost as purely -- pure M&amp;T yield.
Said another way what we do is we exclude all the cash flows that are not going to get collected and then we treat the remainder of the loan as close to cash and as cash payments as we can.
Well René when you brought over the Wilmington book you brought it over below book value right? And there's a discount there that's getting added to the margin every quarter.
You're just saying it's not a material amount? Yes.
We're only accreting what we expect to collect all right? So the big adjustment on the mark was the credit mark on uncollectible funds right? Yes but I guess if these loans pay off right you're going to have gains running through the margin? If the loan were to pay off -- no no no.
If the loan were to pay off because of credit on the credit portion that's an adjustment to the -- we don't -- okay so we...
You don't expect your loans to pay off? Well the ones that we marked down we don't expect.
But we've made that adjustment.
Then we take the remainder right? And what we're using as a yield is basically as if it's a cleanse loan right? A loan that M&amp;T would be willing to generate that has been stripped of its known credit risk right? So you're accreting it back in but it's -- you're asking me it's almost like asking me "What's the yield on an M&amp;T loan that I made yesterday?" Okay.
I guess maybe we'll readdress it in coming quarters.
If you -- how do I say this? It would matter a lot.
It's not a bad question it's a good question Steve.
If you were to say that you were putting in a really large discount rate when you mark an interest rate mark on the loan right? You would be -- you would have a yield that would be significantly higher right? What I'm saying is that on the way that we're looking at it we're not inflating our yield significantly beyond what you could make the loan for today.
Got you.
Okay.
René on the expenses I just want to make sure I have the dollars right.
Can you just point out what the dollars of cost saves you're looking for from this point forward out of Wilmington? And I know you said you expect to realize it by the end of '12 but do you expect any of that to get saved this year? Yes.
Before we end the call I'll give you that number.
Okay.
And maybe just one final one do you have an estimate of the merger costs what they're going to look like for the rest of the year? Yes.
Well it's hard to see.
What we said in the upfront the thing hasn't changed.
We said $159 million but that's kind of mix between marks I think.
Some of the stuff was marked and some is in merger.
I can tell you that I would guess that the second -- the first quarter -- I'm sorry the third quarter would look a lot like the second and that we would have an amount in the fourth quarter.
I'm not quite so sure about that right.?I mean in my mind it's going to be equal portions as we work our way through this year.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
In terms of the timing of the reinvestment of liquidity into the securities portfolio just wanted to see if you can give an idea about -- if you could talk about your plans there and how we should think about that reinvesting over the next few quarters? And then also are you factoring in retention of 1 to 4 family and funneling some of that liquidity into that effort there when you're talking about that reinvestment? Well sure John.
I mean we said that we're going to be -- we'll look at the whole discretionary portfolio.
We're going to be retaining mortgages.
It's hard for me right now to tell you what that volume might be.
But $400 million a quarter $500 million somewhere in that range.
And then on the securities purchases you're not going to see anything drastic but I do think that you probably would have more of a consistent purchase of securities over time each quarter than we've seen in the past right? So I think on average our securities book was down $1 billion from the first to the second quarter.
I would expect that to change a bit and head in the other direction.
So we won't see anything drastic but we'll probably do it fairly consistently.
And you'll see that as you look at the queue you'll see our interest rate profile just keeps moving to the asset sensitivity and we need to sort of slow that down.
Right.
And on that note can you give us the updated duration for your security's portfolio post the deal? Yes the securities portfolio is 2.7 I believe is the duration and that's just slightly higher than maybe what it is historically 2.5.
And then if you bring in the -- we look at it by putting in the mortgages as well.
So that 2.7 goes up to 3.5 if you include the $5 billion of resi mortgages that we have.
Okay.
And then lastly can you just talk a little bit about loan demand what you're seeing by way of commitments growth and then bond utilization on the commercial side? Yes I can.
We've seen -- as you've seen in the numbers the C&amp;I growth has been respectable.
And as we kind of look back to the pipeline over the last -- since February so last 5 months there has been an uptick in 4 out of those 5 months in the sort of the pipeline of loans that are going to come to committee or are going to go through committee and be booked.
So it's pretty steady in terms of C&amp;I growth.
I think that real estate is -- it seems slow but I would caution you on that because there's still a lot of pay downs right? And we've got loans that we're working out.
Also in the quarter we had a number of participation outs sort of credits that were in the process of being participated or syndicated.
So there's probably very modest growth in C&amp;I and the underlying trends in our numbers.
And then as you look to the consumer side I mean it's just steady.
I can't tell you how many quarters it's probably 8 or more where we've had a steady decline with the consumer deleveraging.
And as I look around the footprint the Mid-Atlantic this quarter was a little -- was actually down I think it had to do with syndications and maybe a little bit weaker loan growth.
But other than that the trend is pretty consistent across the board.
Actually one of the best performers for us I think in loan growth I believe is Western New York which tells you a lot.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you about the capital ratios that we have improved and gotten to the goals that we were looking for.
And you can almost look at these unusual items the net gain from the acquisition as well as the security gains as almost like $100 million capital issuance.
Do we need to -- I mean at this point we've probably accumulated enough capital.
What's your thought in the sense of now getting out of what's left of TARP without any incremental capital issuance? Thanks Marty.
I mean I like what we've been able to do.
You mentioned that the 2 items obviously that makes a difference to the gain on Wilmington.
And I point out that even without the securities gains we still would have been on target to what we assume.
We're actually some 20-some -- 22 basis points or more over.
So with that attributed to just sort of the health of M&amp;T.
So I think I like where we are.
We'll probably -- it won't take us long to sort of get up to 7%.
And I think that's important because as you can see where the economy is there's just not a lot of appetite for loan growth.
So it's nice not to have a tremendous amount of excess liquidity -- I'm sorry excess equity sitting around.
So we're going to have to use it for something.
And as I said before with respect to the TARP the TARP is actually over time a drain on our tangible capital.
And so I think it probably puts us in good position to sort of meet all of our target ratios and to move out of TARP on schedule.
That's probably as much as I can say about it Marty but I think your instincts are good.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The only other question that I wanted to kind of ask you about was the allowance for loan coverage is 1.75% kind of in that range where you think well maybe there's not a lot of recapture and you haven't really been doing any recapture.
But your net charge-offs are so low you're 4x in that charge-offs.
Can you see a point when you might -- now that you've gotten acquisition all consolidated and that you might begin to recapture some of the allowance? Well if I could I would have had to recapture.
I think -- I still think that the nonperforming loan book is high by historical standard and we think that there's been some improvements in trends.
But on a relative basis I don't think we're yet ready to say that the loss content in the book is down.
If you look at a couple of things if you look at unemployment it's still high.
A lot of uncertainty around the housing market liquidations and the liquidation prices of homes are up oil prices are up.
So in our minds we'll wait until we see some better sign.
Your next question comes from Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
René I was just hoping -- I don't think you've mentioned it on the call.
I was hoping to get an update in terms of your best estimate on the Durbin impact now that the Feds come out with its latest guidance? Yes.
Let me tell you what I think but I'm not sure how good it is.
So we got to -- they've come up with a guidance.
We obviously have to wait until October 1 to be able to get the specific rules.
So you'd have to put a range around it.
And what I'd say is that we've not been that great at coming up with speculating on these ranges before around NSF.
We waited till the final to give you a number there we got to the quarter we did.
And what we've been seeing over time is even with the NSF is it's actually not been as bad as we initially saw in part because of the way consumer behavior has changed and the number of people opting in and so forth.
But I would say that if you just take just the fourth quarter we're talking somewhere between on a gross number with us doing nothing to sort of offset it $15 million to $20 million.
And then if you start to think out it's really hard to give you a number beyond that quarter because you don't know what the customer behavior is and then we have not necessarily been able to sort of quantify our reaction to it.
So that's what I know.
Okay.
Have you done anything? I mean a number of institutions have started to kind of roll out over the course of this year some new product suites and so forth.
For M&amp;T historically been kind of more commercial oriented.
Is there anything any update there that you can provide in terms of anything that you've already kind of rolled out in anticipation of some of the number of kind of Dodd-Frank changes that are about to be introduced? Well we're in the process of doing that.
We're in the process of designing checking accounts.
I don't expect them to come out real soon.
But we've got a whole host of things that will roll out over time.
But one of the things that I would tell you about is that everybody was concerned about the whole prechecking model.
And at a time when competitors were sort of publicly moving away from prechecking we kind of continued to offer it.
And it's been really interesting in the sense that when you look at our checking account balances on the retail side they're probably I don't know $300 million or so higher than we would have expected them to be at this point in time.
And that's 2 things.
People are keeping more deposit more balances in those accounts.
Relative to the first half of last year the average account balance is up 8%.
And then on top of that what we're seeing is that we've got very very strong sales over that period.
And that's not just within prechecking it's in all checking products over time.
If you compound that with the fact that we're opening significantly more accounts than last year we're closing less and then you compound that with the fact that what we're noticing is a net positive trend of people opting back in as they sort of look to find where their convenience spot is around dealing with the NSF thing all right? Wat you kind of see is that introducing the new product seems to make sense.
But going slow with your change you learn a tremendous amount right? So we'll do some of these things.
You saw that we introduced the credit reports that you can get which is the type of thing we would like to do.
Why? Because it's a real service to someone with all the fraud that's going on right? So you'll see more and more of that over time but it's not going to be sort of a big bang.
Right.
That's helpful.
If I could just do a quick follow up on the credit side just again kind of following up on the SOP 03 accounting and the credit portfolio the non-preforming number was a little smaller than what I was anticipating from the merger.
How should I think about in particular like -- I think there's a $130 million of past due 90 days associated with Wilmington.
I mean as you talk about those revolvers and so forth and your outlook for ongoing improvement and credit how should we kind of think about the SOP 03 accounting and kind of that residual portfolio Wilmington on a go-forward basis? Just say again how should I think about going forward what? The...
With the SOP 03 accounting and as you mentioned the revolving credit before I'm just -- the thing that catches my eye in the release is the $130 million past due 90 days from Wilmington.
Yes okay.
Yes okay.
So just to try to go from the start.
So what you would expect to see is 0 nonperforming loans right when you brought it all because they'd all be in SOP 03-3.
And what you're seeing is that first off is that $77 million that I explained around revolving lines that we keep open right because it makes sense to do so in the work out process.
Then you've got the $130 million.
And essentially what that is is if you look at what we do at the end of each quarter we're looking at loans that are past due maturity but are current and are actually in the process of collection or in the process of being renewed.
So given that we're right at the first part of the Wilmington merger we're 6 weeks in we really haven't yet had a chance to sort of extend our process to Wilmington.
What we've been able to do is to see that all of those loans are current right? And fit the category.
But what I would expect to happen over time is that that number would go down as we begin to put in the M&amp;T standard process of making sure that we've sort of taken action on those before the 90 days is out.
So that's really what that is.
It's not a different category but it is a reflection of fact that we're only 6 weeks into the merger.
Your next question comes from Matthew Clark of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but one just relates to Basel III.
I guess can you -- does that 666 contemplate the additional adjustments you will need to make under Basel III? I guess said another way do you already adjust for your non-investment grade securities in your risk-weighted assets? The high risk rating? Well we do.
Yes to the extent that they're subordinate securities we do.
So there may be some adjustment depending on how that sort of rule finally gets played out.
But I think the biggest adjustment that we would have under what's been published in Basel III would be that the unrealized gains or losses in the securities book and I think we were -- maybe we were after-tax $100 million or something like that at the end of the quarter.
So I haven't really thought too much about it in the sense that the things doesn't -- we don't have much of an effect we're not over 10% on the MSR right? So it's clearly not all that significant for us I guess how I would say it.
I'm also not sure how those final rules are going to come out.
So rather than speculate on it we just keep building our capital.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And the OREO that was sold at $199 million property was there a gain or loss on that in the quarter? Yes there was a gain.
And if you think about the whole thing the way we think about it is that when I look at the charge-off we took and then the gain and if I look at the carrying cost over time we maybe took a slight loss on the whole thing if you include the cost the interest cost to carry it in ORE over that period of time maybe a year or so.
If you don't include that we didn't take a loss in total.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
what's the magnitude of that gain in the quarter then? We haven't talked about it.
Your next question comes from Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Most of my questions have been answered only one I'll ask you is sort of if you think about the pace of loan demand over the second quarter would it be fair to say it was relatively constant or was there any sense of it picking up or vice versa with the uncertainty in Europe to drop off at all in the back half of the quarter? The actual loan growth itself did taper down as you kind of work from the first to the second and you look at the average to as-at balances.
But be careful with that because the pipeline was actually growing right? So if it's a little bit of a low I think it might be temporary.
If I could just get back to Steve's question on the -- it's about $80 million in total that we had as expense saves full expense saves at Wilmington.
Your next question comes from John Fox of Fenimore Asset Management.
Two questions.
First one on the fee income or non-interest income.
I just want to make sure I have this correct.
Is the $42 million which is the gain -- the net of the gain in the merger expenses is that in the other fee income line? The gain is -- the gain portion $65 million gain would be and then the expenses on a GAAP income statement would in the expense line and we've kind of spelled that out right? So you want -- do you need the amounts? No no.
I have them.
I just wanted to know if it was the gross or the net in there.
You answered that.
The second question is with the TARP repayments and all that going forward at this point understanding this future TARP repayments to come what's kind of the preferred dividends below the line or the difference between net income and net income of the common shareholders kind of for the third quarter? I haven't even began to thought about stuff like that.
Oh I could call Don later.
One second.
Give me one second I will answer your question.
Yes I mean it should drop -- okay if we had not issued the preferred now let me answer this the new preferred that we have it would drop pretty substantially.
So maybe from -- I don't know we were running at $13 million if you're $12 million $13 million if you take out the onetime acceleration of the amortization and that would probably get cut in half.
It would go down to about $6.5 million.
What we've got to think about is how we declare dividends on the new preferred and how we book that right.
So if I were you looking at it I'd take that number I just gave you and then I'd take an interest rate on the preferred.
And add the 2 together? Add the 2 together.
Your next question comes from Collyn Gilbert of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just quickly and just kind of following up to some of the questions on the credit front.
So reconciling the relationship between the provision are you seeing it more as a direct correlation net charge-offs or is going to reflect more of kind of the larger overall trend in the credit? I think you've got to look to -- what we actually do is you're looking at classified loan books nonperforming loans and at any given time I mean it's possible to see like a decline in classified loans but sort of the underlying model the amount might not change but where they sit and the grade structure might change right? So we're just looking fundamentally at classified loans including nonperforming loans and what we think the loss content is.
The other piece obviously would be that there's some portion of the provision that's for nonclassified loans.
And that's more about the outlook we talked about sort of where oil prices are and unemployment and the likelihood that things that we don't see today will come in.
So it's more of the classified loan book I guess is probably the answer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just quickly just to make sure when we're thinking about expenses and projecting forward we should assume still in the third quarter we're going to see roughly half of another quarter of Wilmington's expenses in there right? We haven't done -- we have -- I can't tell you.
I obviously don't know that now but we obviously have to get through the conversions right? And we've got a couple of them.
We've got one on the deposit side somewhere toward maybe the end of the summer beginning of fall.
And then we've got another one which is -- would come later which would be the trust conversion right? So it's a little staggered.
So you're probably thinking about it the right way where you'd see fourth quarter you'd see an impact.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> An impact lower you mean? Yes.
Your next question comes from Gary Paul private investor.
By the way first applauds for adding Footnote 5 to your reports.
It helps a lot.
Three questions.
First in any merger you have some runoff of business in most bank mergers we think in terms of deposits.
But in Wilmington it would be the trust business especially since some of their business was dependent on their bad loans.
From announcement date about what retention rate have you had in their business and it can be accrued number.
Okay.
So I'll give it to you.
You said it well.
So there's a bunch of businesses here right? So on the loan side right there was a fair amount of runoff from the acquisition -- from the announcement to acquisition and total loans were down $1 billion.
On the deposit side though deposits remain really really sticky and have actually grown.
And we think our account retention with the 48 branches and the overall deposit has been -- I mean I'll go so far as to say abnormally good right relative to past acquisitions that we've done.
I'm more thinking of the trust fee businesses? Yes.
I know that you like complete answers.
So then if you kind of look at the CCS business right if we start there of the 2 sort of wealth businesses or should I say fee businesses what's interesting there is that the most important positive that we got was from the closing of the merger was that we had the equalization of the Wilmington Trust credit ratings.
And so that was really important because up to the merger they had been shut out of certain activities like securitization fees -- securitization trustees and certain businesses like -- in that nature.
And so we were actually able to recapture a lot of business that -- with people that couldn't do business with Wilmington before because of their credit rating.
Mostly on the other side there's the CCS business who's actually been really really very stable.
If you kind of look at the early fallout from the -- on the wealth side the answer on the wealth side has a lot to do with how well we've been able to retain the employees.
And I think we've done a pretty good job.
Early on we had a publicized event and around the wealth a couple of -- a key part of the wealth team leading a few people.
And I think we lost one client from that.
And outside of that we've done a pretty good job.
And again I think that's directly related to so far our efforts to retaining employees and make sure that they're part of the M&amp;T team.
So the news is pretty good on all fronts.
And I guess we don't worry too much on the other side.
I know you're not asking about it but on the loan side were not too worried about that.
We think we can -- once we get in place our structure that will be able to make up for that.
Now it's strictly the wealth management and it sounds like you're probably retaining more than you thought you would? That's true.
Okay.
Second -- my 2 other questions relate to the only 2 items that I keep wondering whether they're conservative enough while everything else is very conservative.
One is Bayview.
And you did add the description about a year ago as to how you were valuing these residual servicing rights.
But the more I thought about it I have this logic problem that you can probably explain.
If Bayview which unless I have misunderstood your statement is essentially no longer in the origination business and they're losing $25 million a year on M&amp;T's portion that wouldn't happen unless they either have a bunch of servicing where they actually own the loan or taking charge-offs or they're getting a lot of put backs for covenant violations I would assume? Because otherwise the servicing business I wouldn't think would lose money on just that.
So that causes me to say if the servicing is losing money now how can the residual value possibly be great enough to justify an equity rate of return on your remaining recorded investment? A couple of things.
So again from the beginning there are 3 parts.
The part that you see that this quarter had a $5 million loss to M&amp;T has to do with the business that's not shut down but we're not -- but they're not originating anymore.
But there are still loans and securities that need to be managed from that business over time.
And so while there's not revenue from that piece of business coming in there's still expenses right? And that is purely related to Bayview Lending Group and...
Can I just interrupt for a second? Yes sure sure.
Would they not however minus an issue of put backs or losses have a revenue flow on the servicing instead of just the expenses? Wouldn't they be recognizing servicing income? We subbed out the -- in that particular business the servicing subbed out to other party.
So it's all expense related to servicing.
It's all expense okay.
It's all expense related to serving the securities that they issued over time.
So that's first piece.
The residuals we've talked about and it has all of the sort of estimate issues that you've got to deal with in terms of cash flows on residuals.
But almost 100% at this point of the valuation or the biggest part of our reliance on the valuation has a lot to do with Bayview Asset Management.
So there's some portion of the residuals and then the remainder of it is Bayview Asset Management.
And as you look at that particular business their ability to kind of flip back between asset purchases and more -- maybe even more importantly in the future servicing portfolios right? That's where the value is created.
And just as a follow-up to that how many years in the future before assuming your assumptions are right and therefore the value is justified? When do you start seeing that hit M&amp;T? It sounds like it's still years away.
I don't have a timeframe for it.
You don't.
But you do agree it's years away? I don't have a timeframe.
Don't.
Okay.
My other question relates solely to the residential builder area where your total resi at year end you -- I wasn't on the first quarter live call I heard it on tape had about $100 million more in allocated to total residential real estate than the nonperformers in the residential builders.
So one it still seems a little bit odd because you still have a lot of residential builder loans especially in the Mid-West and Pennsylvania -- sorry Mid-Atlantic and Pennsylvania.
And I'm surprised more of them don't go nonperforming.
I can think of one possible reason not and you can probably tell me what the real reason is because if you were dealing with local builders they probably wouldn't be able to keep the loans current if the houses aren't selling or maybe not even complete.
But are a lot of those loans to the big national names such as without saying that they are a customer Toll Brothers et cetera that mean they're standing behind those loans and have the financial resources to do it? No.
I mean I think it's a whole different space.
But I mean when we had our portfolio early on when we talked about this in the Mid-Atlantic and Northern Virginia area that was the case right? That was the case where we had large national builders and their decision -- forget about their financial wherewithal their decision to whether they were going to follow through on their contracts to build or not really had a big influence on the viability of the project.
The issue for us is we've gotten through all that stuff right? So we've cleansed it we've taken charge off which I don't have in front of me over a long period of time.
And quite frankly if you look back we were talking about that business and the fact that we were cleaning it up before for anybody else the storm really hits.
I think that's what it is.
It's more of the portfolio today it's clean.
And then the other thing you got to remember is we have in that category now loans that were acquired right? Some of which are carrying FDIC guarantees right? So it's hard to look at the raw numbers.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> You may have said this in the early part of your prepared remarks and I didn't hear it.
The mark that you guys announced on the Wilmington deal at the time of the acquisition I think was about 12% cumulative loss was 17%.
Where did they come in when you actually did the closing? Did they come in right on to those numbers or was something higher or lower? Yes it was a little bit lower.
Let me walk you through how you do that.
So when we announced that deal we had a mark of $1 016 000 000 on loans of $8.1 billion.
And then -- so the first thing that happens is that they -- first thing that happens is that the loans have run down $1 billion right so the base is lower.
And then the next thing that happens is they took charge-offs of that portfolio which I think were down by -- I'm sorry reductions in payoffs and those things and charge-offs of like $280 million I want to say something like that.
Yes $288 million from the time we announced the deal to the end of April.
So by just doing that that $1 016 000 000 in mark drops down to about $730 million.
And then when we reevaluated it we reduced that $730 million by about $76 million from looking at the credit mark.
So when all is said and done on the remaining loans out there we ended up with about a 9% mark versus say 10.3% if you just account for the fact that there's a lot of cleanup work that happened before we got the loans.
LLC</strong> Sure.
Which is great since you priced it off of a higher mark so that obviously worked in your favor.
Second was I think you said that the onetime charges merger charges at the time were going to be $159 million.
If I heard you correctly in your press release you took I believe about $23 million of the $156 million.
Are we going to see the $23 million again in the third quarter and then the rest in the fourth quarter? Or will that spread out into 2012 as well? I would -- all I can say is -- a couple of things.
I haven't reconciled how much of that $159 million is coming upfront in the March versus out in the onetime expenses.
But I think that most of the expenses should happen in 2011.
The one exception is there maybe some trust stuff that happens as we get closer to the first quarter of 2012.
The conversion is sort of set around that timeframe right? But the majority 75% of them are going to be this year I would guess.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And would you say the majority...
I said the majority would happen this year.
LLC</strong> Would you say that the majority of the $159 million is merger related and not mark related? I just don't have the number in front of me so it's hard for me to answer that question.
What I can tell you is if I look at the onetime expenses and I kind of give you my numbers I mean my thinking is that on a pretax basis I wouldn't be surprised to see I don't know $90 million to $100 million happen this year.
LLC</strong> Okay good.
Do you -- the 15% cost savings that you announced at the time of the deal of Wilmington's operating costs which I think you already gave us the $80 million number is what you think you're going to achieve in cost savings.
That seems on the low side considering it's somewhat of an in-market deal for you.
Do you think there is potential for that the cost savings to be greater than the $80 million? Well how do I say? It's very close to our market but it's not exactly in market.
So there's no overlapping of branches and all that.
So that's fine.
But remember that's a smaller part of it anyway.
And from our perspective from M&amp;T's perspective most of what we've purchased are the -- a lot of what we've purchased are those fee income businesses right which are incremental and are about revenue and gearing up revenue right.
So I think if you kind of think about it that way the 15% maybe we're slightly higher but we'd have to see.
But that's probably makes sense right? 48 branches with no overlap and then 2 fee income business that you're planning on growing.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> Sorry to circle back but something jumped out of me which I thought I wanted to make sure we clarify it.
If you look at the preferred cost typically it was running $13 million and you've talked about it going down to $6.5 million.
This quarter however it went in around $25 million? It was higher.
It was -- you probably guessed the right number it was $20 million.
And that was due to -- at the beginning of the call that we mentioned there was a $9 million accelerated amortization related with -- to the TARP repayment.
LLC</strong> And only other thing I was getting at is that $9 million would be -- it should be considered like the security gains and other net positives that we got in these other places.
So we're kind of trying to get to an operating number we should add that $9 million back as well.
We have in all other corporate payments for the bank.
Yes I guess if you like -- yes you can if you like just be careful that remember it doesn't affect net income.
It affects net income available to common shareholders right because it's a dividend.
LLC</strong> That's correct.
And so when you start looking at EPS kind of numbers it's incorporated into those numbers? Yes.
LLC</strong> And so an EPS number operating number should adjust for that $9 million like we've adjusted for the $0.33 and the $0.41? As long as you've -- I mean I guess you're thinking about it the right way Marty.
As long as you've got which you can’t quite see yet the new preferred.
LLC</strong> Right.
And that will roll in next quarter but then what you'll get from that also is some -- there will some funding related to it.
So you get kind of a net effect of that happening.
But I just wanted to make sure if we looked at this quarter's earnings we would be able to back out the acceleration like we have in the other types of impacts for other folks who have paid the TARP off.
Yes that's right.
That's right Marty.
Your final question comes from Gary Lu of First Investors.
Can you comment on your appetite for future acquisitions? There is some press report about your interest in the HSBC branches? Well I mean we're always sort of around into the extent that somebody's interested in doing something and we tend to look at everything.
But today we're very focused on Wilmington and doing what's at hand.
And if good things come along we'll take a look at them.
It seems to be a pretty large -- in terms of the scale do you think first do you think you have enough capital to do that? And second do you think there's some sell-side research report talking about and you potential need to divest 40% because of the market concentration issue? Can you give us some thoughts on that? We don't talk about...
So what's the benefit of doing that? We don't -- look we don't speculate about future stuff.
We don't do future earnings.
We don't speculate about acquisitions.
What we do is we talk about our history right? And our history sort of speaks for itself whether it's doing M&amp;A transactions or whether it's managing our capital.
The way to think about it is it's pretty plain vanilla.
But forecasting the future and taking about speculating about things doesn't make much sense to us.
And also on the tax rate it seems like a little bit lower in this quarter.
Is it because of the merger gain? And what's the -- can you give us an idea what the effective tax rate after Wilmington Trust is fully integrated? Yes you've got -- what you'd have to do is you take the merger gain which is non-taxable but up in fee income right? Pull that out and you'll get a better estimate of what the tax rate was for the quarter.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items in the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at (716) 842-5138.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the M&amp;T Bank Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer Rene Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone thank you for joining us on the call today.
As you know M&amp;T's results this quarter reflect Wilmington Trust for the entire quarter as opposed to a partial period during the second quarter.
In some ways this is a baseline from which you can understand where M&amp;T is prior to any synergies realized from the merger and also where we're headed.
Let's cover the highlights on the earnings release and then I'll take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers for the third quarter 2011 net income was $183 million or $1.32 per diluted common share compared with a $192 million or $1.48 per share in last year's third quarter.
Net income for the linked quarter was $322 million or $2.42 per common share.
Recall that the second quarter's results included $51 million of after-tax securities gains amounting to $0.41 per common share.
These gains were the result of our program to reposition the balance sheet so as to enhance both capital ratios and the liquidity profile for the combined M&amp;T and Wilmington Trust.
M&amp;T's results for the recent quarter included $16 million or $0.13 per common share of after-tax merger-related expenses arising from the acquisition of Wilmington Trust.
Recall that M&amp;T's second quarter results included the net after-tax gain of $42 million or $0.33 per common share related to the merger.
That gain was comprised of a nontaxable gain of $65 million which was partially offset by after-tax merger-related expenses of $23 million.
There were no merger-related expenses in the third quarter of 2010.
Also included on our GAAP earnings for this year's third quarter was after-tax expenses from the amortization of intangible assets amounting to $11 million or $0.08 per common share.
This compares with $9 million or $0.07 per common share in the linked quarter an $8 million or $0.07 per common share in the year ago quarter.
Net operating income which excludes the amortization of intangibles as well as the merger-related items I mentioned was $210 million in this year's third quarter up 5% from $200 million in last year's third quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.53 for the recent quarter down 1% from $1.55 in last year's third quarter.
Net operating income was $289 million or $2.16 per diluted share in the previous quarter.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
The annualized rate of return on tangible assets and average tangible common equity was 1.14% and 16.26% for the recent quarter compared with 1.69% and 24.4% in the second quarter of 2011.
Those figures were 1.24% and 19.58% respectively in last year's third quarter.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and income statement.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $623 million for the third quarter of 2011 up 5% from $593 million in the second quarter of 2011 primarily reflecting the impact of the Wilmington Trust merger.
Excluding the impact from that merger we estimate that net interest income for legacy M&amp;T increased by about 1% unannualized.
Driven by a 1% linked quarter increase in average earning assets which is also not annualized.
The net interest margin was 3.68% during the quarter compared with 3.75% in the sequential quarter.
We estimate that 3 basis points of the decline are attributable to the full quarter impact of the merger.
This excludes the impact from high level of excess liquidity that we've held since the acquisition date back on May 16th.
The higher combined levels of cash held at the Fed and resale agreements resulted in a net negative impact of about 2 basis points.
Those balances rose from $1.4 billion on average in the second quarter to $1.9 billion in the third quarter.
The day count of 92 days in the third quarter versus 91 days in linked quarter accounted for an approximate 1 basis point of the decline and the remaining 1 basis point decline is attributable to core margin compression.
At this point in time we believe the balance sheet is positioned for a very slight downward pressure on the margin based on the forward curve.
However our ability to deploy cash into loan growth or additional purchase of investment securities should tend to mitigate that pressure.
As for the balance sheet average loans for the third quarter increased by approximately $2.7 billion to $58.2 billion as compared with this year's second quarter reflecting the remaining impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition.
Average loans excluding Wilmington Trust were down about 1% annualized as compared to the second quarter on that same basis.
Commercial &amp; industrial loans declined by $126 million or an annualized 4%.
This includes $174 million decline in loans to auto dealers which is something that we expect in the third quarter of every year as inventories depleted in advance of the new model year.
Other C&amp;I loans grew an annualized 2%.
Average commercial real-estate loans declined an annualized 1%.
Consumer loans declined an annualized 2% reflecting a lower level of indirect auto loans and continued soft demand for home equity loans.
Residential real-estate loans grew an annualized 5% largely due to the levels of mortgage loans retained for our portfolio.
On an end-of-period basis also excluding Wilmington Trust we experienced annualized growth in loans of about 1% reflecting a rebound in activity late in the quarter particularly on the commercial side.
For example C&amp;I lending grew stronger as the quarter progressed reflecting 10% annualized growth on an end-of-period basis.
It is also worth noting that we began to retain the bulk of our mortgage production again on July 1st.
We locked just under $800 million of new loan volume for delivery to our discretionary portfolio during the third quarter.
We won't see the majority of the impact from those loans coming on to the balance sheet until the fourth quarter.
As you might expect from my comments on excess liquidity and cash held at the Fed M&amp;T continued to see growth in deposits during the third quarter.
Average core deposits excluding the impact of Wilmington Trust were up $1.1 billion or an annualized 9%.
Substantially all of this growth was a noninterest bearing demand deposits.
Finally M&amp;T purchased approximately $880 million of investment securities during the quarter however despite these purchases we still have some $2.2 billion of cash held at the Fed at the end of the quarter.
Turning to noninterest income.
Noninterest income was $368 million for the third quarter of 2011 compared with $502 million in the linked quarter.
As I mentioned the second quarter's results included the $65 million nontaxable gain arising from the Wilmington Trust merger.
In addition the third quarter results included $10 million of net securities losses primarily due to other temporary impairment charges relating to our portfolio private label MBS.
While the second quarter included $84 million of net pretax securities gain.
Excluding those items noninterest income was $378 million for the quarter compared with $353 million in the linked quarter.
That increase was largely due to the full quarter impact of Wilmington Trust compared to the partial quarter effect in the prior period.
Also excluding those items noninterest income for legacy M&amp;T was down about $20 million from the linked quarter.
Reflecting a bit of softness in most of our fee income categories which was linked to the disruption in the capital markets back in July and August and a general slowdown in activity.
Overall service charges on deposit accounts were $122 million during the recent quarter compared with $120 million in the linked quarter largely attributable to the merger.
On the legacy M&amp;T side the result was somewhat soft as a result of the lower debit card volumes from the higher levels that we saw on the second quarter.
Trust income was $114 million during the recent quarter up from $76 million in the second quarter.
The increased from the linked quarter was substantially all attributable to the full quarter impact of Wilmington Trust.
And trust fees particularly on the Wilmington side were weaker due to the lower valuations in the equity markets and the general slow of pace of activity in the capital markets.
Mortgage banking fees were $38 million for the third quarter down from the $42 million in the linked quarter.
This largely reflects our plans to retain the majority of our residential mortgage production.
We estimate that our decision to retain the mortgages cost us to forgo some $14 million of gain on sale revenue during the recent quarter to instead be realized overtime as interest income.
The other noninterest income category was down about $6 million from the linked quarter on the legacy M&amp;T side and this category was negatively impacted by lower levels of loans indication and other credit-related fees as well as lower levels of gain on leasing residuals.
Turning to expenses.
Excluding merger-related expenses in the amortization of intangible assets operating expenses were $619 million for the third quarter compared with $525 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The increase again largely reflects the full quarter impact of the merger and does not include the benefit of any merger-related cost savings which will begin to materialize next quarter.
The conversion of the Wilmington Trust branch platform in the core banking systems occurred over the weekend of -- over the last weekend of August.
While we've added staff positions to essential operations areas savings arising from those conversions and the elimination of certain back-office and headquarter positions won't become apparent until the fourth quarter.
During the third quarter M&amp;T recorded in addition to our impairment allowance for capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights of $1 million.
There was no change to the allowance in the second quarter of 2011.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related gains or losses was 61.8% for the third quarter compared with 55.6% in the second quarter of 2011.
Next let me turn to credit.
Credit trends while continuing to show improvement reflected some impact from the merger.
As we discussed in the press release as of the third quarter we've begun to separately report other acquired impaired loans.
These are acquired loans that were not impaired as of the date of the acquisition but which are no longer performing in accordance with their contractual term.
In accordance with GAAP these loans are included in pools of loans which accrue interest -- which continue to accrue interest based on an estimated cash flows.
Nevertheless we've always felt that despite the technical accounting rule it's important for investors to have a clear picture of how the underlying loans are actually performing.
Following our latest acquisition we further segregated these loans to make that picture even clearer.
We believe that breaking these loans out separately will help investors better understand M&amp;T's accounting for acquired loans.
As presented in the table on Page 12 of the press release these loans aggregated $218 million as of September 30th compared with $141 million at the end of the second quarter.
And had previously been included in the nonaccrual loan figures that we reported.
We would expect the level of other acquired impaired loans to continue to increase over the near to immediate term before leveling off.
Nonaccrual loans which exclude other acquired impaired loans were $1.1 billion as of the end of the quarter little change from the end of the prior quarter.
The ratio of nonaccrual loans as a percentage of total loan was also unchanged at 1.91% as compared to the second quarter.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken into foreclosure of the defaulted loans were $150 million at the end of the third quarter down from $159 million at the end of the second quarter.
Net charge-offs for the third quarter were $57 million improved from $59 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of loans were 39 basis points down from 43 basis points in the linked quarter.
Provisions for credit losses was $58 million for the third quarter compared with $63 million in linked quarter.
These provisions exceeded charge-offs by $1 million and as a result the allowance for credit losses has increased to $909 million as of the end of the third quarter of 2011.
The ratio of allowance to credit losses for legacy loans which excludes acquired loans was 1.79% down slightly from 1.80% at the end of the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of September 30th was 3.6x annualized year-to-date net charge-offs.
Loans past due 90 days or more but still accruing were $310 million at the end of the recent quarter improved from $373 million as of June 30th.
The improvement largely reflects the acquired Wilmington Trust loans which went in the process of being re-documented at maturity.
Of the loans 90 days past due and still accruing at the end of the third quarter $212 million are guaranteed by government-related entities.
This figure was $207 million as of June 30th.
Finally while we will publish the final level of criticized loans in our 10-Q filing we anticipate that we've brought further improvement from the levels at the end of the second quarter.
Turning to capital.
M&amp;T's capital ratio at the end of the third quarter continued to improve reflecting earnings that comfortably exceed -- reflecting earnings comfortably in excess of our dividend.
M&amp;T's tangible common equity ratio was 6.46% at the end of the third quarter up 18 basis points from 6.2% at the end of the linked quarter.
Our estimate of Tier 1 common ratio as of September 30th is 6.89% improved by 22 basis points from 6.67% at June 30th.
And our tangible book value per share was $38.11 at the end of the recent quarter up 3% from $37 at the end of the linked quarter and up 18% from $32.23 at the end of the earlier quarter.
Turning to our outlook.
It appears to us based on feedback from customers that the news headlines over the federal debt ceiling and the U.S.
credit rating downgrade the eurozone uncertainty and the Fed's comments about the necessity of keeping rates low for another 2 years all had the effect of slowing down the level of commercial and capital markets activity early in the third quarter.
As the quarter progress activity seemed to pick up somewhat.
But at this point we don't see anything to suggest that commercial loan trends will be much different from what we've seen throughout most of 2011 that is to say steady activity on the C&amp;I side with pipelines continuing to build.
Also auto floor plan activity should pick up as dealers build inventory of the new model year.
On the CRE side modest growth in commercial mortgage activity will continue to be masked by the net contraction in construction lending particularly residential construction from our acquired portfolios.
We expect consumer loan growth to remain tepid.
The benefit of our program to retain residential mortgage originations will become more apparent in the fourth quarter as mortgage that's originated in the third quarter are funded and come onto the balance sheet.
We believe the net interest margin should be relatively stable at the current level.
As I noted the balance sheet is positioned for slightly near-term margin compression.
However I'd note that growth in loans and securities is being funded by the cash we're holding which is serving to limit margin compression.
As we noted on the last quarter's call with the so-called Durbin Amendment becoming effective on October 1st we expect lower debit card interchange fees to negatively impact service charges by some $15 million to $20 million in the coming quarter.
At this point in time we expect that the loss revenue will be outpaced by expense reductions particularly as the impact of synergies from the merger begin to materialize.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties various assumptions regarding national regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and all other -- and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
We'll now open up the call to questions before which Paula will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> René I guess certainly the one item that really stands out in the quarter is expense levels particularly as you mentioned the August conversion.
I believe if memory serves I think you realized about $80 million of cost saves when the deal closed in Q2.
If you could just kind of walk us through really some of the moving parts this quarter on the expense side particularly between legacy M&amp;T versus Wilmington the impact? And again kind of reconcile that with kind of your outlook at the 15% cost savings goal for 2012? Sure Todd.
Let me just sort of -- if I just interpreted what you said wrong.
But we actually through the third quarter have realized no expenses.
So at the close of the deal we had half of the quarter because we closed the deal on May 16th.
And then what is a little atypical of this transaction versus to all of the habits we've created overtime is that we didn't do simultaneous merger conversion.
And so because the bank was sort of running on its own all the way through the last quarter of August we won't begin to see any of the expense savings or the $80 million that you mentioned starting until next quarter.
But beyond that really if you think about it what happened is we've added to our staff to be able to have peak positions in the back office that will ultimately help us run the institution but because we haven't begun to get the savings the run rate that you need to come down from where your today is probably greater than $80 million right? Because that's the net number of the total impact of the merger.
So it's just sort of -- you're really kind of seeing I'm going to call it baseline at least with the Wilmington being in our numbers and now you're going to begin to see it's going to do what we typically do.
Research Division</strong> Okay and again just could you reconcile just in terms on the linked-quarter basis just in terms of core M&amp;T relative to Wilmington just the relative contributions.
And again it just seems like M&amp;T seems to be higher? It is.
It is higher.
I'd say a couple of things -- Let me say it again so the M&amp;T piece is higher and there are a couple of things there.
We had a swing in all ROE expenses from a net gain last quarter because of that New York City property that we talked about to actual costs this quarter.
And quite frankly that is how do I say maybe even a little high in the current quarter.
And then we also had an extra day or so right? So the salaries are up and I don't know $4 million $5 million higher than the second quarter.
And then just in general with sort of gearing up and preparing for the transaction I'd say some of the expenses at the M&amp;T side are really sort of geared around dealing with the transaction.
So you're right the M&amp;T piece is up and as well as just having the impact of the merger.
Research Division</strong> Can you share just in order of magnitude how much it was up? We're over $20 million.
The swing in ROE was probably $18 million.
And the way I think about it is just look at the efficiency ratio it's 61.8 last year it was 53 and 53 looks more like M&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
That's why the question and then if I could just follow up the comments that you made in terms of the excess liquidity excess cash at the Fed I think you mentioned in excess of $2 billion.
Could you just talk about as I think about the 2012 balance sheet the long growth momentum that you talked about that liquidity specifically I mean how much is delivered versus how much is kind of regulatory market driven just kind of given all that uncertainty that you talked about? Well I guess the way I talked about it anecdotally in terms of cash is that we were not in an excess cash position before we brought on Wilmington.
So really we're trying to catch up a little bit from that I guess in hindsight maybe we could've put on a few more investments securities before the deal closed but we didn't so that's where you start from.
And then what's happened is the growth in deposits has pretty much kept pace with the amount of investments that we've been doing on the securities side.
So if you -- hence the position that we're still around $2 billion.
The final thing is that I think we'll be able to utilize those funds.
Particularly because if you look at M&amp;T the one thing that's a little different on our profilers is we're way way below the industry average both in mortgages and investment securities where we've sort of held off for a very long time on growing those portfolios.
So if you kind of think about that that kind of gives you some picture of how we're thinking about absorbing some of that excess cash.
But one other thing I would say is that we also now have -- when you bring in Wilmington Trust we are going to see lumpiness and a mighty big lumpiness.
It's not unusual to get a customer on a corporate trust side that grants [ph] $1 billion with us for 30 to 60 days right? But if you just put that aside for a minute you kind of get a sense of what our plan is and sort of what's happening with the cash.
Research Division</strong> So if I could just follow up on that.
Again when you talk about the expectations for loan growth securities growth going forward funded by cash I'm assuming on the securities and in a stable margin if you will.
I'm assuming then that with the cash funding again you're effectively margin accretive even though you're purchasing presumably lower yielding securities.
Yes I think so.
I mean it's just sort of rule of thumb and we're being very cautious how we put securities on but if some securities are going on that's plain vanilla securities that's say 320 to 340.
And then residential mortgages are going on just the neighborhood of 4% right? You kind of get very little impact on your margin.
If we were starting from a place where we had those 2 books were very large and we're having runoff you'd see a lot of churn and you get the dilutive effect of the old stuff rolling off but we don't have that position right? So this is net new stuff coming on.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just to touch a little more on expenses have you sort of look at where you guys are this quarter at $619 million taking out the intangibles and merger costs.
And looking at Wilmington cost saves of about $20 million a quarter once fully implemented? I mean is it fair then to say that means that M&amp;T by the end of next year will be closer to kind of like a $600 million number? Excluding amortization? How did you get from $619 million to $600 million? Research Division</strong> I went to $619 million and then take $20 million a quarter for Wilmington cost savings which is about 15% of Wilmington's cost save or Wilmington's cost base.
I think one you're going to probably center around the way you're doing that the $80 million.
And then you've got to remember that the expenses are probably net a little high right now right? So we're probably starting from a higher point so it's probably $80 million plus.
And then -- so that's the expense answer.
The other thing is if you look at M&amp;T we've got the whole issue of the general efficiency ratio which is sort of the changing dynamic of where fees are coming from with regulation and those types of things.
And I guess the way I'd say it is as you look out as far as you're looking out at 1 full year our focus will be to drive the efficiency ratio back to normal spaces for M&amp;T and some of that means that we're going to be have cautious on expenses and looking at expenses.
But it also means that we're going to be looking at both sides fees and expenses to drive the efficiency ratio right? Research Division</strong> And then when you say something that's more normal for M&amp;T given all the changes as you say in fees that we've seen something 54% 55% sort of where you are hoping to get it is that the right range? I mean I think I can't tell you about timing on that but I mean I think that just make sense because if you think of what our operating model is it's very very plain vanilla right? And we've always held that in a long-term and a consolidating industry where you're offering commodities you have to have a strong efficiency ratio.
So we haven't changed our view that we've run the company down in those levels.
Again I'd point you to last year we were at 53% and that's where our work is.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe last question if I shift gears I know you all did highlight that you are now following more the resi mortgage reduction.
Can you just sort of review how you all think about the sale versus portfolio decision? And I know there have been many times that you all didn't like resi mortgages or didn't like the portfolio resi mortgages.
Is it because you've got the cash on the balance sheet now that it's a more attractive option? I think there are 3 things.
I think one is because our profile is very asset sensitive all right? Which I guess is nice if bet on interest rates are sort of going up but we tend to be neutral.
So because of the lack of general growth and the slowness in the economy the deposits coming on we just need fixed-rate assets.
So rather than buy them from somebody else you just save on the transaction costs by just keeping your own that would be one.
Two would be that there's kind of a change that's gone on right? I mean there's a lot of uncertainty in the mortgage market every loan you book has got some sort of repurchase risk.
And quite frankly that repurchase risk is a selection bias because there's never really anybody calling up and say "I'd like you to buyback this loan it's performing really well." So when you look at that the dynamics have changed.
The value of those mortgages has gone up relative to sort of treasuries right? And so the spreads are higher.
So it just makes a little bit more sense for us to put those on today.
The third thing is that we do get a risk rating benefit from it which is not something that M&amp;T we ever really think about very much.
But the regulatory constraint that's put on us has not been tangible but it's been something called Tier 1 common.
So we have to think down the road whether we want to optimize the balance sheet by putting on more of those lower risk weighted assets.
So that's a change but it's a change brought on by regulation.
So all of those 3 things are kind of pointing us in the direction of retaining our mortgages.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the mortgage thing so when you think about the continued trade-off between keeping mortgages and not selling it and you mentioned that that looks more out to the fourth quarter.
So do we assume that we see more via net interest income in the loan growth side as those come on and does that mean that mortgage banking naturally just comes off or has the mortgage banking effect already been felt because you've decided to hold them? So this quarter as we said we think our income our fee income was about $14 million lower because we lost those loans for our own portfolio.
And then you should see the lion's share of that impact of this quarter sort of little less than $800 million of volume bit in the fourth quarter and obviously it should improve net interest income.
The one one thing I would say is that like many of the other banks you saw this quarter I mean the mortgage volume was really really high right? So it's hard to predict whether if we have the same amount every quarter but sure the net effect should be that we're building our balance sheet side.
And if you're thinking about if all the volume of activity was the same you wouldn't then see another drop in mortgage banking income going to the fourth quarter.
So that's sort of volume dependent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's definitely part of what I was getting at.
But I guess the other part of it is just the time disconnect right? Where you take the absence of the gain on sale in one quarter but then the NII will be more layered out more overtime is that a fair way to think about it? Yes fair way to think about it.
It's also exacerbated by the fact that you record gain on sale when you lock the loan but you -- so that it's early and you don't get interest income until you actually own the loan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the second thing is just on the -- a couple of other would be just broader fee question.
So we have the full quarter of Wilmington this quarter and I just wanted to understand if you can give us some color on the underlying trends within service charges as that deal has come on if you changed anything with regards to the fees that you're assessing on Wilmington customers as a welcome onboard type of thing even though you haven't converted? Yes I don't have a real specific detailed answer for you but generally speaking we've been very cautious in that space and so we are waiving fees across different product types.
Some of it is for convenience some of it is just because the nature of the conversion.
So there is -- I haven't thought of this but there is probably a little bit of an effect of that in this quarter's results.
And that -- if we were going to change that in any particular area say service charges or something else it will work its way out over time.
Because our big issue is retaining customers we're very focused on that.
I'm trying think if there's anything else -- and then the other thing I would say is that we've got market sensitive fees and we're sort of batting it around I guess the idea here is that overtime you guys are going to ask us how sensitive we are to a move in the SMP.
I don't really know the answer yet but I know that if it had not been for the market disruptions I guess I was expecting that we would have made $5 million to $8 million more in fee income this quarter out of the combined trust businesses.
So it gives you some sense that the downturn in the SMP has probably had an impact on the quarter's fee income.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that was actually going to be my last question and maybe you can answer it a different way and saying do you know the mechanism by which of those fees are priced whether they're done on averages or period ends or some type of lag that could help partially answer that question.
The short answer is no.
But let me explain to you why.
The wonderful thing about Wilmington Trust is as you've learned about it's a very robust business.
And so as you walk down the different things that they do some of them yes are based on fees off of assets.
But in the wealth business there's also a significant portion that are actually not based on fees of managed assets.
You've got businesses like the retirement business which are sensitive to it.
But then again you've got businesses that are simply based on services we perform like being the agent on success or loan agency services where you got a conflict between the lender and the borrower and then the shared national credit.
So when you look at it in total it's really hard to point to one thing and say "This is how it works." It's actually much more of a diverse base.
So that's why -- again as I look through all those and I saw the quarter SMPs maybe it's somewhere in that $5 million to $8 million that we're down.
But it's hard to really give you a formula on how to get there.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on capital with Tier 1 common sort of inching toward 7% here could you update us on how you're thinking about ultimate [indiscernible] repayment and what those ratios will be beyond that? As we charged ahead with our capital you're right we're sort of on target to see somewhere in the 7% range at the end of the year and on the Tier 1 common.
So I think obviously in a month within a month probably the capital rules will be out.
Obviously you probably to have some cushion over that.
But the way I think about it is that a portion of that probably could come from changing the mix of the balance sheet by having the lower risk weighted asset.
So it was kind of where I was talking about before.
I don't know that -- I can't tell you what the level of our tangible common equity will be I like the fact that right now at 646 it's sitting about 1% above our normal long-term target right? And from there I think we'll just sort of figure that mix out.
But I don't have an exact number for you.
I think we'll focus on those sort of risk in the balance sheet more than anything else.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And separate unrelated.
As we look quarter-to-quarter we sort of get used to the negative contribution from Bayview here do you still feel good about future positive contributions there? Yes I do.
It's the nature of the business and where the revenue streams or the cash will come from.
It's different that when we originally made the investment.
But you kind of see  through that line that that piece of the original business is very predictable.
And now you've got an operating -- most of the valuation is coming from this Bayview asset management which is an operating unit that does a lot of either mortgage purchases or mortgage servicing right? And from time to time we flip back and forth between being a good time to purchase assets and accumulate assets.
Now it's actually a better time to be doing mortgage servicing.
But we like their capabilities and we feel good about the way we value the investment.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the retention of Wilmington Trust customers on the wealth management side can you just talk a little bit about how that's gone and how the trend in the AOM have gone as well? We've been as you say it's very simple we've been extremely great with both the retention of the customers and the retention probably most important of the employees which you know they're directly linked.
And nothing has really changed since I answered the question on the last call.
It's been above our expectation.
The other thing I guess I would say is when I look at the asset management and the assets under management most of the decline is simply -- it seems to be simply the market decline and the numbers.
I think these are rough numbers so you bear with me but I think we went from somewhere around $80 billion to $72 billion right? Which is very symmetric with what you saw happened in the market in the capital markets -- in the equity markets I should say.
Research Division</strong> Right that's exactly what I was getting at.
Just to see that mainly there's no other -- there's no loss of business and that's impacting that trust line.
Things have gone very well and I'm knocking on my table here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately on the margin side I know you had indicated that you expect a stable in 4Q and then there's a downward bias just given how the balance sheet is structured.
Can you talk a little bit more about the components of the margin like what are you seeing right now in terms of loan pricing and then also do you have some incremental ability to lower deposit costs? Well the first thing that sort of underpins those comments is the fact that I was just kind of looking at that forwards if push goes to shove.
I mean the forward is flat for the next 15 months you never really see that in any sort of rate when you look at the spread between LIBOR in 2-year or just anyone of the absolute rates nothing is predicted to change out there.
So if you kind of hold that there in that environment you've got the role effect that everybody else is likely to see but it's smaller for us because our lower yielding securities in residential mortgages are smaller right? So that's what behind it.
I mean assuming if you had any sort of change upward the answer would be different.
Just give me the last part of your question again? Research Division</strong> Yes I was just wondering if you still have some ability to lower your funding costs as well? Yes I don't know that that's the case.
I mean I think that generally speaking maybe there is prices to tweak it here or there but that's probably not a big lever that we have.
And if you go back to the other part of the question on the loan side we seem to be doing pretty well generating decent yields.
In fact if I look at the commercial loan book we sort of track like a full P&amp;L on every deal that we've done in the quarter.
What we kind of see is that after a number of quarters of coming down in the margin that we're able to get by booking the loans we've now seen 2 or 3 consecutive increases.
And actually 1 2 3 -- 3 consecutive increases in the margin that we're getting on loans right? So that's been pretty stable and kind of the history of sort how we think about pricing.
Next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of independent questions.
Just first as we think about the sensitivity to the trust fees from the market is there any good rule of thumb there in terms of SMP changes by 10% impacts revenues by x? I just don't have it yet.
It's not that I feel comfortable with.
And this maybe is a bad answer but I'll talk about it every quarter I gave you the $5 million to $8 million and maybe we can sort of from our opinion as we move along.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And remind us for those of us that didn't cover Wilmington the mix of say equities versus fixed income? That really differs by business.
Let me see if I can get something here.
But I mean -- so if you look at the end of the quarter assets under management may be so 21% cash 36% equities assets to fix income is 34% and then other -- I'm not sure what other is probably alternative it was 9%.
So pretty evenly distributed and then quite frankly quite a bit of cash which is sort of if you look at the revenue streams today they're really really muted by the fact that interest rates are low on the money markets and the waving of fees.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And then just switching gears here thinking about the underlying loan growth at M&amp;T legacy on a period end basis which I think should get rid some of the noise loans were relatively flat.
Mortgage was up just a little bit even though you're retaining.
The commercial piece I think is impacted by the some of the auto floor plan.
And if you can give us a sense of the auto floor plan drag? And then just generally speaking we're seeing loan growth for the industry overall and it seems like a little bit less for you guys? Yes I think I had in my comments I think -- we have to double check this but I think the number was like $179 million or $176 million down in the floor plan lending which will come down a little bit more in the next month or so before it begins to rebound as you kind of you work your way into the beginning of the year.
So but then the C&amp;I loan growth was pretty consistent with what it's been all the other stuff.
And then as I said even including floor plan the end of period growth was 10% if you take out floor plan at the end-of-period growth in the other categories of C&amp;I were almost 12% annualized growth.
The other thing I can tell you is that on the commercial side we've now seen somewhere between 8 to 10 consecutive months of buildup in our commercial pipeline.
So there's a lot of activities there.
I do think that as we come along maybe we'll try to do a better job of this.
But for us to be down 1% annualized on commercial real-estate having brought on K Bank Brad Ford and Wilmington with all of their residential mortgage stuff that we're working out really tells you that that business is actually moving as well right on the real estate side.
The one thing I would say a little bit of anecdote while there has not been a change in the rate of runoff in our consumer book it does kind of seem logical that that's going to  begin to moderate right? Because for example we've been doing $100 million of auto loans a month for a long time now and net book is hovering around $2.5 billion right? And so it seems pretty logical that the runoff we've seeing steadily should start to abate in the next couple of quarters right? So I think loan growth actually looks pretty decent.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly the change in the TDR accounting was that meaningful? Have you disclosed what your TDRs are and what they've might as well...
We do -- yes I don't have the number for you because it will be in the call report when it comes out.
But there really wasn't much of any change maybe 1 or 2 loans.
But really the way to think about is that the new TDR guidance was in our minds more of a clarification of the existing standards.
And so we did go through and we reviewed some of the loans and really there was no change to us.
But you'll see that those numbers in the call report when it comes out.
Next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The reinvestment rate on securities you referenced earlier seems to be higher than a lot of other banks out there.
Even Comerica this morning said they were investing in like a $180 million to $240 million range although you said you were at $320 million to $340 million.
Can you talk about one what duration securities you're buying to get that kind of yield? And two are you taking the view that if rates stay lower for longer it's a window here to take more duration risk? I think you must -- I mean I think to get a rate what you're talking about the bond treasuries the other parties must be buying something like treasuries or something but they're just mortgage-related Fannie and Freddie securities.
So the duration which I want to get for you now but I mean in our securities book has always been around 2 maybe hundred 230 I'm just thinking off the top of my head.
And I wouldn't expect that that's going to change significantly.
We are buying the mortgages we're retaining we just bring in the mortgages into that number.
Some 15 some 30.
But again the position can take it.
Because overall the position in terms of duration is pretty small.
I'll find that for you in a minute.
Research Division</strong> So Rene we should we think about bottom end of the securities yield [ph] that are in that 320 340 range from the 365 this quarter? Well our treasurer is very a very cautious guy in the sense that he doesn't like to book stuff at really really low yields.
So we've been waiting and unfortunately the rates just keep going lower and lower.
So anytime we see an opportunity where something steps up a little bit we'll get into the market of it.
But it's why we've been cautious and we really haven't made a dent in the level of securities versus earning assets today.
Research Division</strong> While you're looking for that how much of the...
Yes the duration of our securities portfolio is 2.23.
And I think that might go up to something like 280 when you bring in the mortgages as well or 2.8 I should say.
Research Division</strong> Rene on the $80 million that Wilmington cost saves how much of that should we expect to be realized in 4Q and how much is 2012? I think you'll see a meaningful impact next quarter.
And then I think it'll come down a bit and then you'll see another impact close to second quarter because of the trust conversions that are taking place somewhere in that timeframe all right? So it will be 2 levels but I think a lot of -- you'll see a meaningful impact probably this coming quarter and then kind of business [ph].
Research Division</strong> Too aggressive to assume that you get half the cost saves in the fourth quarter? No it's not too aggressive to assume that we -- whether you see it or not but assuming there at the end of 12/31 you should see a meaningful.
We should have done a lot of meaningful work by 12/31.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final question are you now originating loans out of the Wilmington footprint or is that portfolio a bit of a drag here? We definitely are originating loans in there.
We spent a little bit of time talking to investors on the road with Woody Collins.
And we spent most of our time in the first part of the deal just sort of engaging the employees and the RMs and getting out with them to the client base.
So I think we've done a very very nice job of that.
We were sort of -- the loan book was in a bit of runoff mode for a fairly long time.
And we think we see signs of that particular thing slowing.
It's just going to take a little bit of time but that's sort of out there in the M&amp;T way which tends to be in front of the clients quite a bit.
And from everything I hear that's going pretty well.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Clark of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the -- A quick question about the Basel III Tier 1 comment can you give us an estimate of the Tier 1 common post Basel III adjustments and whether or not that number considers your non-investment grade securitizations.
No.
I assume when they come out with the actual rule that the U.S.
rule then we'll go to the calculation But we haven't spent much time on it at all because if you think about it yes maybe you get a little bit on the resi's but that's sort of fixable.
And If anything is non-investment grade you're already getting tax for it right? On dollar for dollar in most cases right? So that's in there.
And then the other issue that are sort of bantering [ph] around are the whole unrealized losses.
And you know in my sense we'll have to wait and see what comes out with that.
We're not above the mortgage servicing rights piece we're probably right about at the limit when you take -- if it turns out that the rule ends up being with the MSRs the equity and the mortgage  -- and the deferred taxes were probably right about at the limits.
We haven't done much with it today and I can't see it being an issue for us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you guys -- I guess can you quantify your non-investment grade securitizations and whether or not you guys will try to work down that exposure in the meantime? Well somewhere we might have that for you but we probably have it somewhere here in the securities book.
It is the queue so it hasn't changed much.
Remember as we kind of went through and thought about repositioning our balance sheet it didn't make any economic sense to sell those securities because there's just too much of a liquidity difference in there.
So we went out and looked at places where we were modeling our securities.
And the market was willing to give us more than our models actually suggested was value there.
In the case of those securities it doesn't make economic sense for us to move them.
So if something comes up that suggests in the new capital rules that it makes sense to do it I'll be surprised if there is something then we'll think about it then.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just lastly in terms of the first Niagara HSBC branch deal in upstate New York and I guess along those lines you talked about the growth buy product type but just curious about some of your submarkets where you saw maybe more of the outside growth and maybe some shrinkage? And again any follow-up commentary about the HSBC deal that's going down? Yes sure.
The 2 strongest -- if you think about loans for a minute.
The 2 strongest markets that we saw on loans in upstate New York and in the metro area which serves anything from Tarrytown to New York City down to Philadelphia those were the 2 strongest.
Upstate New York was 4% annualized growth and metro was the same.
And was really nice about upstate New York and this sort of stretches from Buffalo all the way through to Albany is there were just a lot of -- there's a lot activity and a lot of activity in different industries.
So we seem to be doing very well in being able to sort of pick up customers.
I'm presuming that maybe some of it is also sort of pick up in general activity.
But that's faired very well.
If you kind of just move away for a second I'm kind of indirectly answering your question around the upstate markets.
We were down about 7% in the mid-Atlantic.
Most of that was the fact that in the second quarter we did a number of syndications.
Right? So you saw high commercial fees in the second quarter.
So a lot of that came from syndication of loans and so the average balance effect is kind of in here today.
And then if you kind of flip over to the deposit side we had 2% annualized growth in upstate New York but more importantly we had 20 -- almost 22% annualized growth in demand deposits in upstate New York and that came from every area we're growing consumer accounts.
In upstate New York we've taken on a number of commercial accounts so we feel very good about that.
Metro was flat PA was up at 8% annualized Mid Atlantic was up 3%.
And if you look at just demand deposits we seem to be doing a nice job in western New York.
So we're pretty optimistic about what's going on we've been here for a very long time and we've been very consistent at the way we operate so we think that should be a nice benefit to us from all that's going on there.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Coming back to the efficiency ratio that you talked about where you guys were last year and having a goal of getting back to the mid-50s is the efficiency ratio maybe permanently changed now that you have a higher component of the trust business which has historically run at higher efficiency ratios? A couple of things.
One I don't know that it's all that meaningful.
It's a nice big business but it's still not the biggest part of where our income comes from.
And I think over time what I like about that business is that we just think of it from the Wilmington side we've taken what  they've been able to do really really well in the Delaware footprint and in some parts of Philly and Pennsylvania and we now are actually able to extend that to our existing footprint right? And the way in which that actually happen I think over time we'll find some ways so the Wilmington folks will now have an opportunity to maybe a little more efficient than they were.
Just because you're doing all of that you're extending those services to existing clients so that's 1.
But generally speaking Gerard the biggest issue is that our business model has now been changed.
It's changing or has been changed for either way you want to look at it.
So our task is the kind of go out there and figure out exactly how we're going to deal with the fee issues that we've all seen and in some part of that issue it's going to being focusing on the revenue side but it also means that a lot of the way we think about our expenses and our distribution are going to have to change over time.
So that's sort of a long way to say that like no I don't think it's permanently changed.
I think there's going to be a lot of energy around keeping that efficiency ratio close or near to where we've been historically simply because in the broader context of things it's relatively consolidating industry and we think if you can't run very efficiently then that's probably not a good thing down the road.
LLC Research Division</strong> I totally agree with you.
Do you think once you get the cost savings out of Wilmington of course that you guys are expecting.
And obviously if my math was correct I don't think you get down into that mid 50% efficiency ratio.
So to get there will it come more from revenue enhancements or just a continued focus on the cost controls? Yes I think you're right.
If can do some math which you guys can do and you come up with where you end up with Wilmington you don't get down to 54% 55% if you think of discussion[ph].
Because a lot of things are gone right? But that doesn't mean that we won't over time figure out ways to get some of those back so that we can get our customers to pay for the services or that it will right size it.
This will take some time for the industry to do that.
The way I think about it is we focus for a very long time on trying to be the best bank we can for investors but also for our communities.
And to the extent that we continue to offer services and products that they value then we should be able to sort of operate the bank the way we always have.
We're in a little bit of a period of disruption but I think there were banks a thousand years ago there'll be banks a thousand years from now hopefully we'll be one of them.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the assets under management I think he gave a breakout on the answering to the question about the Wilmington percentages.
And I think if I heard correctly you said about 21% of their business was in cash money market mutual funds.
Some of the bigger trust banks have given us the dollar amount of fee waivers of what they're losing today because of the low rate environment.
And of course once rate starts to rise at some point in the future these fees will come right to the bottom line.
Do you guys have an estimate of what you're giving up in fees for fee waivers on that money market mutual fund side of the business? Someone's handing a copy of our Q right now.
I'm being told that it's in there.
But why don't we just do that and we'll make sure we keep publishing that in our Q and if you'd like Don can tell you where it is you just give him a ring.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then finally on the increase on the credit issue for the impaired acquired loans that you broke out this quarter where did it come from what types of loans and was it a surprise that it jumped up the way it did.
Is it mostly Wilmington loans or was there other loans that drove her from prior acquisitions? Yes I think the numbers it are something like -- the increase in that category something like $76 million $79 million was from Wilmington.
So the way you think about that is there were some loans in our system it's a 15-grade system.
So when you get to 13 you're nonperforming if you're not an acquired loan.
So anything that was deemed to be 13 or an impaired loan of acquisition we put in the SOP.
Then we assume as we kind of look at all those sorts of other loan that we're going to -- some percentage of them is going to migrate to us right? And that's how we come up with our mark.
So no surprises.
And in fact what you would see is as long as loans are rolling into that category what it means is that the total pool that the loan is is still accruing according to the cash close that we originally thought.
And that's why I can't get into the nonaccrual loans because even though it's impaired it's being viewed as accruing because it's in a pool where the cash flows are exactly as we expected.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you mentioned that this loan number could -- or this portion could rise a further in the near term? Near term meaning just next quarter or next 2 quarters? Yes I mean I guess I wouldn't be surprised to see it rise next quarter and maybe into the first quarter before it starts leveling off.
Just in terms of -- you think about what that book is right? You'll still see a little bit of migration continue to happen for a couple of quarters.
The same thing will happen -- the same thing happened in Provident if you kind of go back at your notes but it was much smaller right? The next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question I know you've been beating to death on this expense issue.
Maybe not a menu-sha [ph] question but kind of bigger picture and you sort of touch on in your comments about if the business changes sort of thinking rethinking about distribution.
But what -- are there ways or do you see sort of definitive opportunities within your business Wilmington Trust business whether it's processes or systems other branch at work where kind of over a longer term if we see revenue pressure continue at this level that you guys would be able to bring costs down or change the way you're doing business? Well I definitely think that we have a lot of ability to change it.
And again we think about Collyn and it's almost 62% efficiency ratio.
It's a bit of an aberration right? So I'm pretty confident that as the things that we're talking about doing and testing out we've probably gone slower than those other individuals other banks I should say and in this sense because we'd like to watch and see we're very focused on the customer what matters to them.
But over time yeah absolutely I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be able to adapt our business model to the new rules and the new environment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay but there's nothing that's being discussed specifically right now within the boardroom in the executive level that you could see implemented over the next 6 to 12 months? Yes I mean what you'll see over the next 6 to 12 months is you'll see new product launches you'll see new versions of our checking accounts and you'll see all of that stuff.
So yes absolutely.
Just talking about and speculating about the details today over that doesn't make much sense but we're talking about it all the time.
So stay tuned I guess is what I'd say.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Don MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Thank you everybody for participating in today's call.
And if there are any questions or any further clarifications of news release as necessary please contact our investor relations department at (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
Thank you this concludes your conference you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements related to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today to discuss the first quarter results.
Let me begin by reviewing the highlights after which Don and I will take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.50 in the first quarter of 2012 compared with $1.04 earned in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net interest income for the recent quarter was $206 million up from $148 million in the linked quarter.
Other than our normal seasonal uptick in compensation expense there was very little in the way of unusual items in our first quarter results.
However there were a number of items from prior periods that I'd like to remind you of which impact the comparison to the linked quarter and the year ago quarter.
Last year's fourth quarter included a write-down of our investment in Bayview Lending Group settlement of a lawsuit and the contribution to The M&amp;T Charitable Foundation which reduced earnings for the quarter by a net $33 million after tax or $0.26 per common share.
Also in last year's first quarter we recorded $39 million of securities gains as a result of the repositioning of our securities portfolio in advance of last May's completion of the Wilmington Trust acquisition.
Those gains amounted to $24 million after tax or $0.20 per common share.
Excluding those gains diluted earnings per share increased by 8% year-over-year.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude after-tax -- the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions.
Included in GAAP earnings for the first quarter of 2012 were merger-related expenses related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition amounting to $2 million after tax or $0.01 per common share.
This compares with $10 million after tax or $0.08 per common share in the prior quarter.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $10 million or $0.08 per common share in the recent quarter unchanged from the fourth quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the quarter which excludes those items was $218 million up from $168 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.59 for the recent quarter compared with $1.20 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income expressed as an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.18% and 16.79% for the recent quarter improved from 0.89% and 12.36% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including intangible assets and equity.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $627 million for the first quarter of 2012 up an annualized 2% from the linked quarter.
Net interest margin expanded during the first quarter averaging 3.69% up 9 basis points from 3.60% in the fourth quarter.
All of the increase can be attributable -- excuse me all of the entries can be attributed to a sizable change in the mix of average earning assets.
The net interest-bearing -- the interest-bearing deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank which had been in place for most of the third and fourth quarters declined by $1.7 billion on a linked quarter basis and was largely offset by $1.4 billion of linked quarter increase in average loans.
Aside from the benefit of replacing the cash at the Fed with loan growth there was approximately 3 to 4 basis points of margin compression as a result of new loans coming on the books at lower yields than those maturing -- than those of maturing loans.
This pressure was offset by lower funding costs and a one-basis-point benefit from one less day in the first quarter.
In other words we still believe that we are positioned for slight downward pressure on loan yields with some modest offset on the funding side.
As for the balance sheet average loan growth for the first quarter was strong increasing by approximately $1.4 billion or an annualized 10% to $60.5 billion.
On that same basis compared with 2011's fourth quarter changes in average loans category -- loans by category were as follows.
Commercial &amp; industrial loans grew by an annualized 9%.
Commercial real estate loans grew by an annualized 8%.
Residential real estate loans were up by $806 million or an annualized 43% reflecting our continued policy of retaining the bulk of our nonconforming mortgage loan originations to hold on our balance sheet.
Consumer loans declined an annualized 6% driven by lower indirect auto loans and modestly lower home equity loans and lines of credit.
On an end-of-period basis loans grew an annualized 6% compared with the linked quarter.
Average investment securities declined by an annualized 7%.
Our appetite for purchasing securities was lessened in the first quarter based on the low yields available combined with our ongoing residential mortgage loan retention program.
Average core customer deposits which exclude foreign deposits and CDs over $250 000 were down an annualized 3%.
The decline reflects the impact from trust deposits which had -- which we had temporarily held on our balance sheet during the fourth quarter in a fiduciary capacity before paying the funds to the ultimate beneficiaries.
We experienced core deposit growth in all of our community banking regions.
On an annualized basis average core deposits grew in our Upstate New York area by 11% while our Metro area which includes New York City Philadelphia and Westchester which we sometimes call Tarrytown grew by 4%.
Pennsylvania also grew by 4% followed by the Mid-Atlantic with 2% growth.
The outsized growth in Upstate New York was aided by our ability to acquire new customers as a result of the disruption coming from the -- from HSBC's exit of the upstate market.
On an end-of-period basis core deposits increased an annualized 11% reflecting in part seasonal inflows of municipal deposits.
Turning to noninterest income.
Noninterest income totaled $377 million in the first quarter compared with $398 million in the prior quarter.
Linked quarter results included $55 million from the settlement of the lawsuit that I previously noted.
Other-than-temporary impairment charges related to our investment securities portfolio amounted to $11 million in the recent quarter compared with $25 million in the linked quarter.
Excluding those charges from both periods as well as the legal settlement noninterest income was $388 million for the recent quarter up an annualized 22% in comparison to the -- with the $368 million in last year's fourth quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues rose to $56 million in the recent quarter compared with $41 million in the prior quarter.
The increase is attributable to the combination of higher loan volumes wider gain on sale margins and a lower repurchased cost.
We estimate that our mortgage banking revenues could have been some $21 million higher had we elected to sell the mortgage loans we originated to hold on our balance sheet in the quarter.
That comparable figure was $11 million in last year's fourth quarter.
Fee income from deposit services provided which include debit card interchange were $109 million during the quarter compared with $104 million in the linked quarter.
Turning to expenses.
Operating expenses which exclude merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible assets were $620 million for the first quarter.
This compares to $706 million in the fourth quarter which included the BLG write-down and the contribution to The M&amp;T Charitable Foundation.
Excluding those 2 items operating expenses for last year's fourth quarter were $597 million.
And this quarter's seasonal increase in salaries and benefits that I mentioned earlier amounted to approximately $26 million for the recent quarter and included the items which typically -- which we typically note such as the accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense for certain retirement-eligible employees higher FICO expense higher unemployment insurance expense and expenses related to our 401(k) match.
As in prior years we would expect a decline in the second quarter as these items return to normal levels.
Including those $26 million of seasonal items our operating expenses were still just $2 million higher than they were in the third quarter of 2011 which as you'll recall was the first full quarter following the merger but before any of the merger integration synergies had been realized.
This should give you a good indication that we've made substantial progress in achieving the majority of our target expense savings even though we've yet to realize the benefits from the midyear conversion of our trust and investment systems.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related expense -- gains and expenses was 61.1% for the first quarter compared with 67.4% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Next let's turn to credit.
Overall credit trends continue to show improvement.
Nonaccrual loans decreased to 1.75% of total loans at the end of the first quarter down from 1.83% of total loans at the end of the previous quarter.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken into -- in foreclosure of defaulted loans were $140 million as of March 31 down from $157 million as of the end of 2011.
Net charge-offs for the first quarter were $48 million down from $74 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Recall that in the fourth quarter we charged off approximately $19 million on a single residential development project in Northern Virginia.
There is still the potential for some lumpiness in charge-offs from time to time as loans that otherwise are specifically reserved for may ultimately result in charge-offs.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 32 basis points down from 50 basis points in the linked quarter.
Provision for Credit Losses was $49 million for the first quarter compared with $74 million in the linked quarter.
The provision very slightly exceeded the net charge-offs and as a result the allowance for credit losses increased to $909 million as of the end of the first quarter.
The ratio of allowance to credit -- for credit losses to total loans was 1.49% compared with 1.51% at the end of the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of March 31 2012 was 4.7x net charge-offs for the quarter.
We disclose loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately on a nonaccrual -- on nonaccrual loans because they are deemed to be well secured in the process and in the process of collection which is to say there's very low risk of principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $273 million at the end of the quarter.
Of these loans $253 million or 93% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Loans 90 days past due were $288 million at the end of 2011 of which 88% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
M&amp;T's estimated Tier 1 common capital ratio was 7.04% at the end of March up from 6.86% at the end of December.
This reflects higher capital from retained earnings partially offset by the larger end-of-quarter balance sheet.
Lastly as most of you know we don't offer much in the way of earnings guidance but we'll share our thoughts on our general outlook.
Our balance sheet continues to be positioned for slight downward pressure on the net interest margin as a result of new loans and securities coming onto the balance sheet at lower yields than those maturing.
This should be muted by a lower cost of deposits combined with lower cost on borrowings.
As we noted in -- on the January earnings conference call we expect the full year net interest margin for 2012 to be modestly lower than the 7.37% reported for the full year of 2011.
And when combined with mid-single-digit loan growth we anticipate continued growth in net interest income throughout 2012.
The possibility of large temporary cost deposits coming onto the balance sheet for a period of days or weeks as was the case in last year's fourth quarter is more likely than in the past driven by our large corporate client service business and its success in generating new business.
I'd stress that while these deposits can dilute the state of net interest margin while they're on our balance sheet there is no reduction of net interest income and in fact it's a very slight positive due to net interest income while we have them on our balance sheet.
We remain very focused on expenses both on the day-to-day cost of operating the business as well as on achieving the remainder of our cost-saving opportunities arising from the Wilmington Trust integration.
We continue to expect the remainder of those opportunities to be realized over the next 3 quarters with the majority of the impact occurring in the second half of the year following our planned second quarter trust systems conversion and we continue to expect up to $10 million of merger-related cost in 2012.
This figure includes the cost incurred in the recent quarter.
I believe our caution with respect to credit may have been misunderstood by some to mean that we are concerned about the potential for an uptick of problem loans in our own portfolio.
I want to stress that in fact our caution comes in part from our conservative DNA combined with external factors such as the continued historically high level of unemployment the eurozone crisis the U.S.
fiscal deficit and the possibility of another fight over the current federal borrowing cap.
Unfortunately none of those issues are under our control and that said we continue to see steady improvement in the level of criticized and nonaccrual loans supporting our strong credit performance.
Over time we optimistically expect those trends will continue.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
And now we'll open up the call to questions before which Paula will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> The deployment of liquidity was one of the big impacts on the balance sheet this quarter.
You deployed about -- looks like $1.5 billion of those deposits into the Fed moving them into the loan growth.
So a lot of that's dictated by the mortgage banking and how much you've been able to see.
With the increase in mortgage banking fee income as well as the opportunity probably to touch more mortgages and also the kind of increase in deposits that kind of rekindled the period and number back in the Fed balances it looks like you got about another $1 billion left that you could redeploy going into this quarter.
What's your thoughts about utilizing that? Well I mean I think we -- obviously we had a big end of fourth quarter loan growth which carried over to this -- to the first quarter.
But I think if I take it in parts we definitely have -- we've not seen an abatement of growth in deposits so that trend has continued longer than I guess I would have thought if I was sitting here a year ago.
So that bodes pretty well.
I noted in Upstate New York that we've got great deposit trends.
There's a bit of disruption going on here from all the different conversions and so forth.
So I think that's good.
And then if you flip over to the other side I think we had 5% end-of-period growth in C&amp;I loans right? So while not as robust as in the fourth quarter end of period we're still seeing growth and obviously we've got a fair amount of residential mortgages that we've been putting on each quarter.
So I think -- I would guess that we'll be able to utilize the core deposit growth that we see.
Having said that I think as we mentioned the -- our commercial client services business is such that we could get even larger swings of cash balances which in some cases I think might go unutilized as I kind of think out in the future whether it be from our loan agency business or from assisting people with securitizations and those types of things that the capital markets start to pick up.
LLC Research Division</strong> But with additional kind of origination production going on do you feel like you want to use the extra $1 billion with the stronger positive growth that you're already seeing? It's like you reloaded as you went to the first quarter and you got a chance to go out and deploy another slug of mortgages in there that could really help balance the balance sheet as well as be able to generate some offset to that compression that you were talking about in net interest margin.
I mean I think -- I guess I haven't thought about it that way.
I continue to think and we continue to think that because we're light when you combine discretionary assets which we would call mortgages and securities we're just doing the tradeoff right? So if you look on the other side I don't have the amount but we had a runoff on our securities book right as well so that's kind of a substitute for the mortgage growth and my sense is that trade-off will continue.
I think that was down almost -- the investment securities were down almost $0.5 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> The last thing I was going to ask you as the trustees increased a nice 3% which is the first increase we've seen since the merger with Wilmington Trust how much of that was market valuation lift versus -- when we were out there talking to management you're all real excited about being able to see some of those customers Wilmington Trust come back on board and be able to see -- be able to cross-sell into that product as well.
So how much is market related versus tactical or strategic traction that you're getting? Thanks Marty.
Good questions.
Yes.
So I mean if you look -- and let me sort of tee that back up.
I would say that as I kind of -- now look we have 3 quarters.
We went from the third to the fourth and our trust fees Wilmington combined with M&amp;T were flat.
And when you look at a lot of trust businesses out in hindsight a lot of people were down.
So we were actually pretty pleased with our results in the fourth quarter.
And then we saw a nice growth into the first quarter which was driven primarily by 2 things: our capital markets and agency business as well as an uptick in the retirement services.
Retirement services obviously is a result of the S&amp;P 500 being up 12%.
So there we saw fees grow maybe 4% 5% right? Because we don't have 100% equities there.
We're a little less sensitive to equities but we still have improvement.
And then as we look at the various capital markets business if you think of our default administration business as you know we've got -- we've been able to get a number of sort of headline appointments there.
We're the trustee on GM Eastman Kodak American Airlines.
We added MF Global.
And those things combined and the work associated with those things have actually allowed us to sort of hold our ground there and in fact actually get a little bit of an increase.
So what I'm always impressed about is that I thought we had a pretty aggressive outlook on what we might be able to do in the first quarter for trust and we're able to do that.
What I'm most impressed about is sort of as we learn about it the diversity of the Wilmington Trust business is a nice thing.
There's always sort of something going on.
There's a win in one place when you don't see it in another.
So that's the best answer I have for you but I -- we were pretty pleased with trust.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> We had several questions on the composition of consumer real estate originations which I'm guessing there's almost all conforming resi mortgages.
But what is the average maturity yield and duration on these originations? I'll give you some sense if you give me about 2 seconds here.
So we've got -- if you look at what we did in the quarter so I'd say about half of what we did are agency-related securities.
And of that about half of those 50% of those are 15-year.
Another 10% to 12% are 20-year and then the remainder maybe 30% 40% of it would be 30 years.
And then we're more on the 30-year side with the FHA production that we did which was a sizable portion also of the total amount that we did maybe 40% of what we did.
And then we've got some smaller products which are more in the 15 but it sort of weighted themselves down towards the 15- to 20-year.
So I would guess it's probably like half  15-year half 30 at this point and with the idea that we're graduating more towards 15-year as we put things on to deal with the duration issue.
Research Division</strong> And then René specially related to 30-year duration or the 30-year maturity paper what are your thoughts on duration extension risk to the balance sheet given what could happen when government stimulus and then rates eventually go up? I think that we're not concerned about it in the sense that if we were to keep putting mortgages on for a longer period of time I guess we'd get to a point where we think we had too much duration risk.
We're already relatively low and again we're light in that space right? So think of it as when you think of the replacement of the securities book which a lot of are MBS right and you look at the tradeoff our duration is growing a bit but it's still in the wheelhouse of where it's been in the past.
So nothing concerning just yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Not even on the change on where that could go when rates go up? Because obviously it would extend that.
Oh yes.
I mean we would be -- no that's what we're considering when we're putting it on right? So we're thinking about extension risk and all of those types of things as we model it out.
Right now we're still comfortable with the mortgages.
Although I do say that we do have more of an appetite for 15 years as we progress because with the refi boom we're probably ahead of where we thought we would be.
Next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick things.
So number one just to ask the question obviously the CCAR came and went and I think you guys made the comment that you had not put in for anything related to the eventual TARP payback and that you would just have to I guess resubmit that at that time.
I was wondering if you could just kind of walk through then just how you have to think through that at whatever point it is in the future when you get to that point.
Do you have to just -- do you have to wait till annual review? Or can you resubmit an interim if you had a thought process around becoming in a more immediate timeframe? Well I think what we said was that to the extent that we wanted to repay the TARP we would have to resubmit and I guess this process is to resubmit.
But at this point in time I don't really have any more information on our thinking.
We've stated it a lot in the past but I do think -- if you don't mind I would like to just sort of kind of walk back through the points again because I think it kind of matters.
We've heard a lot of stories out there about our TARP.
So you'll recall that we were kind of reluctant to participate in the program.
And so we -- as a result we were one of the -- we were the only one and the largest bank to take just 1% of $600 million.
And the thought process back then was that we didn't want it.
We didn't think we need it but at the height of the crisis there was a lot of pressure on banks to prove that they were strong enough to receive it.
So what we essentially did is we took the minimum to show that we were strong enough to qualify but not -- but also strong enough not really to need it.
And so then as you kind of move along we ended up with acquiring some troubled franchises Provident and Wilmington and we took on more than $180 million more.
We paid back $700 million.
So now we've paid back more than we originally took.
And so I think -- and our plan is to just keep dialoguing with the treasury and others and -- over time and we'll pay back the remaining balance when we find that that's practical or appropriate and we're committed to paying it in full.
I think the other thing is is that if you kind of look at the second piece of that if you look at where the warrants are trading since -- whether they be ours or those other institutions there's a very sizable gain that's embedded in the warrant.
So our picture we'll get rid of it as soon as we can.
I don't have any more information for you today but our -- but that's our goal.
And as we work with the treasury we'll hopefully get to a point where we can give the money back.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the other 2 piece of this is that -- is are you at the point at least where -- now where you can help us give a -- get a better understanding of what your Basel III would look like if you had to present it today? We talked about that.
I'm not -- I think we're just going to wait.
Most of the banks that have done it as you know are speculating based on what the Basel III original rules are coming out of Europe.
And our opinion is we'll just wait and see what happens when the final rules come out and we'll publish something then.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question René is just obviously the mortgage strength across the board was very clear this quarter both in terms of the amount you were able to put on the books and then your comments.
Just seeing the mortgage banking fee strength and plus the fact you could have gotten if you had sold I was wondering if you can kind of give us some -- a little bit deeper color in terms of just what was origination versus what was gain on sale on the fee side.
And can you walk us also again through the -- your time lag in terms of apps that haven't closed or you gotten paid on yet? Yes.
I can try to do it in a simpler fashion.
Maybe I'll just give you a couple of numbers if you give me a minute.
I mean when you look at our -- so I'll start with application volume.
We had total application volume of $2.4 billion which was up 31% from the linked quarter right? So huge huge volume increase in total.
And then if you kind of look at the components of that most of it was from refi activity.
About 12% of that volume was from the HARP program right? So as you get back a couple of quarters that didn't exist.
So that kind of explains almost 1/3 of the increase is the way I would think about that and I would guess that that'll continue for some time.
On those -- we're selling all those but we are keeping the servicing on some portion of those loans.
And then as you look I think we locked about $900 million for future sale to our treasury division.
And in the fourth quarter that might have been about $800 million and you actually saw the $800 million flow into the balance sheet this quarter right? So you should see some strong effect.
It depends on where rates are with the regular -- the total volume coming next quarter but in any case we seem to -- we'll have some nice carryover into the second quarter on our balance sheet.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll start last quarter you pointed to more cost saves than the original $80 million.
I think you said $90 million to $100 million.
Just wondering where do you think that's looking now.
And what was actually in the run rate as of the first quarter? If I were to guess where we are we're probably getting pretty close already to about the -- to the 15% number.
We're knocking on that door of cost saves and which suggests that we're sort of on track to be a little bit over because again we haven't completed our trust and investment systems conversions right? So I think that's what we're saying.
We kind of feel like a lot of the uncertainty there or the work is done but obviously as we go further I think we're going to probably outperform that original number will be my guess.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And René once the cost saves are realized how should we think about the growth of core expenses with Wilmington in the mix? Maybe historically around 4% per year.
Is that higher now with Wilmington? It's interesting.
When you look at the expenses if you just take a detailed look at the expenses it's pretty amazing.
You can't discount -- and maybe even suggest go back and read again Bob Wilmers' message.
The amount of expense that's been added because of the regulatory side and not just the obvious ones but sort of all the added staff that you need for credit and compliance and those things is pretty high.
And I think I was looking at -- I don't have it exactly in front of me but I think it's on the runs.
We were probably -- FDIC insurance was probably up 52% 53% from a year ago quarter.
So all that said to the extent that a lot of that is not going to continue at that pace I think now we're sort of settling in trying to think in the new environment how do we operate things.
And so our focus is going to be on sort of containing that growth as much as we can.
Where you might see some growth would be on investment in things like technology because as you look at your distribution network which is -- which needs to be rationalized not just for us but everybody you can only do that when you have pretty good technology that sort of offsets it in some consistency there.
So -- but I think expenses will be pretty well managed.
I think about the spread.
I definitely think that we'll have an abnormal spread between the revenue growth and expense growth relative to the past couple of years.
Research Division</strong> And on the margin just to follow it up -- follow up on your comments for slight pressure would you consider restructuring some of the long-term debt the way at least one other bank has to take pressure off the margin? No because it's not economic really.
So I mean this restructuring that we did against Wilmington Trust I -- at least it's the only one that I ever remember in the 20 years I've been here and I would guess you could probably go back 30 and say the same.
So I doubt it because there's no economics in that whatsoever.
We still have some -- which is one of the things you see in the margin which is kind of subtle but we still have some wholesale funding or longer-term wholesale funding from Provident and those transactions that will run off over the course of this year that will give us a little bit of relief.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe just to follow up on Ken's question on TARP.
I know you were very clear with your answer.
Just curious could we see an update on this this year? Or is it most likely with next year's stress test and capital plan that we'd next see an update on that? I can't tell you.
When I know I'll tell you.
Next question comes from Erika Penala from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Conor Fitzgerald for Erika.
Just correct me if I'm wrong but I think I heard you mention that auto loans were down.
Was that a deliberate decision on your part to pullback? Or did the overall pie shrink this quarter? Yes.
Auto loans were down.
It's not any different than it's been trending.
I think we said the total consumer loans were down about 4%.
Auto loans were down I think about 3% unannualized I would guess.
Yes.
So that portfolio has been running off because quite frankly as we said we try to maintain a return at least at our cost of capital of 12% -- maybe 12% 14% is where we've been running and we've seen a lot of competitive pressure there.
I recount one of our folks was out recounting a story where he went out and looked at some of the transactions going on.
In one case you had a 2009 sports car.
The purchase price was $100 000.
The loan-to-value was $98 000 and the credit score was 702.
The yield for the customer was 1.34%.
So with that kind of activity we can't get anywhere near that.
It doesn't make much sense to us.
But in fact it seems like it's a pretty good environment for the consumer right because money very very cheap.
So in our mind we'll continue to generate $80 million to $100 million of that paper a month unless something changes in the competitive front and that means that we're going to see slight downward trends in our balances there.
Got it.
And then just on credit quality how are you guys thinking about kind of normalized charge-offs as we move through the cycle and your reserve level? A couple of -- I mean I -- and this is a guess.
I mean if I think back over a long period of time I would guess we've built a company that the average charge-off rate over long periods is probably 30 to 40 basis points right? And that swings low and we still have high nonperformers so I would expect that as that tapers off you'll -- over long periods you could get some good credit performance.
The other thing I would direct you to is that if you look again over long periods of time our movement in charge-offs mirrors the industry.
So while we've always been much lower on a relative basis the sort of tracking of it is almost in lockstep because we're in the same asset classes everybody.
It's just that we try to get more security on loans.
So I don't know if that helps you at all.
Next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to be clear -- hopefully you have this number.
The $21 million that you guys cited if you had sold the resi mortgages you would had $21 million of additional banking income.
Presumably that also means that you wouldn't have had the growth in resi that you did which obviously provides -- or it grows your earnings assets grows net interest income.
Do you happen to have like a net number? Because it seems wrong to kind of just add in the $21 million because you're already getting income from the loans that you kept.
Oh yes.
Yes.
We probably should have done a better job of that.
So think about it this way Ken is -- so when you -- the way the accounting works is when you're selling it originating the loan for sale at the time of the lock you record the gain.
So the loan hasn't been closed yet.
So all the gain on sale revenue you see in the first quarter was from loans we locked but have not yet closed.
The $21 million is related to those $900 million of loans we talked about right which have not yet closed.
So they're not in our numbers at all.
They'll -- they won't be in our balance sheet till about 45 days after the lock period so that means on average in the second quarter.
Is that clear? Research Division</strong> Yes -- no that does help.
That's great.
And the other thing we did is -- that's we gave you the $11 million last quarter.
So if you kind of use last quarter's that's what boosted the -- that's what -- it was those loans that boosted the first quarter balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another quick question.
In terms of how -- what percentage I guess of your portfolio are you comfortable with resi mortgage being? How large can that grow? We're way below the industry average.
I don't know a couple of points as a percentage of assets.
We're not looking to do anything dramatic.
I would guess when we're done we'll be below the industry average.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you're comfortable going up close to the industry average.
Okay.
Let me say that again.
Research Division</strong> I guess for you guys.
That's what I was asking you're tolerance for resi.
Yes.
No no no.
Let me say that again.
Again it's an offset for security so it depends on where we are with our investment securities portfolio.
So right now we're really low.
I forget the numbers but we're probably half of what the industry average is for investment securities.
So you kind of have to look at both of them together.
Next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Adam Chaim calling for Matt O'Connor.
I just have 2 quick questions for you.
Sorry if you've discussed this already but was there any impact from MPAs [ph] -- on MPAs and reserves from the new regulatory guidance on second lien home equity? I think 2/3 of your home equity was second lien at year end.
And the second is regarding salaries and benefits expense.
Even excluding the seasonal increase the $26 million you noted in your prepared remarks we -- it still came in a bit higher than we expected.
How much of that expense is generally driven by mortgage compensation? I think -- well let me go in reverse order.
I think very little of it is really driven by mortgage compensation.
If you think about it because when you book the loans you have to defer a portion of the expenses it actually -- it works the other way.
It dampens the salaries a little bit when you have high mortgage volume because you're deferring.
But having said that the -- our business is growing as well.
So for example the size of our servicing portfolio is a little larger as well and a few things like that.
We've added people in the servicing area so that's kind of what you're seeing there.
And I think the other thing that we'll continue to do from time to time is particularly with the Wilmington business we'll start adding teams of people where we think the revenue growth actually can help us out.
So I would say that probably the biggest thing that you're seeing there that you can't quite see is probably a larger servicing portfolio and some more staffing there.
And then if I go back to your other question on the second liens we did some work.
And basically what we think is that classifying our second lien loans as nonaccrual when the first loan is not paying would really have very little impact on our financial results.
So what we do is -- and we disclose some of this in our 10-K actually you'll -- in our most recently published 10-K.
We've got about 35% of our home equity portfolio that's actually a first lien that are actually first lien loans and then there's another 55% where we're behind -- which are behind first lien loans that are not owned by us or serviced by us.
And what's really true about those loans is that we can't precisely sort of determine where -- whether there's a delinquency on the first loan.
So what we do is we have a process in determining our overall adequacy of the allowance but we start by looking a bit at our history.
And then we test that history and adjust it if it's appropriate by looking at several factors including some of our near-term forecast.
In that what we're looking at sort of by geographical region we're looking at changes in our collateral values.
And we sort of -- as we do that because we don't know what's happened to the first mortgage because we're not servicing it essentially what we do when we do those scenarios is we assume the original balance.
We assume that the first loan is not paid down at all and that the original balance is still outstanding and then we use that to sort of run our estimate.
As we kind of run through the whole process we feel pretty comfortable that we've kind of appropriately quantified the loss content in our portfolio our home equity portfolio.
And as you know that portfolio has sort of a really nice performance over time.
I think we were somewhere between 58 and 69 basis points of loss over the last 3 years so I think we're in pretty good shape there.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about that trust deposit seasonality? Can you help size it up in terms of how much you expect it could be that it could impact the deposit balance? I wish I could.
It doesn't really work that way.
So for example recently we were -- in early in the -- early in this second quarter we were engaged to be trustee in a large securitization right? So depending on the size of that securitization we'll get a way above average -- we'll be holding that cash for that client for a short period of time but it could be a significant amount of money.
Sometimes it gets cut in half.
So I mean it can swing by several billions of dollars depending on the type of transaction that we're engaged in and how many we're engaged in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then separately can you give us a little bit more color on loan pricing through the quarter particularly on the commercial side? And I know you gave some color around the resi book but just curious in general what you're seeing there.
But more importantly just competitive loan pricing you also mentioned in direct auto.
So clearly we're seeing it there but I'm curious what you're seeing elsewhere.
Yes.
I mean let me put it as a backdrop to that in a number of places we're seeing very positive things from our customers whether that be because there's an uptick in the economy or activity or in some cases just because the competition is down because a lot of their competitors have been sort of weeded out.
But as you look at that as a backdrop we have seen -- I'm going to use better language than one of our regional presidents.
He -- I'll change his words.
He told me that from a competitive standpoint facility is back.
And what he's talking about is that many of the community banks are pretty aggressive both on price and structure and I'd say even relative to a year ago.
And then when you get to some of the larger institutions to the extent that they're healthy because they're carrying -- we believe because they're carrying a fair amount of equity they've been willing to do things that were probably a little lower than we would have expected.
I think it makes sense from the context if you think -- if they think they're sitting there with excess equity then that's kind of what you get.
So it's pretty competitive.
But having said that as we kind of look into like Pennsylvania for example our business bankers and our branch managers seem to feel that there's good loan demand there and then not necessarily complaining about prices.
And then again I would articulate that in Western New York in Upstate New York we've been in terms of customer count on the business banking and loan side as well we've seen good growth there at fairly reasonable margins.
So that's what we know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly can you give us just some color on the fluctuations again in the other revenue line item and as well as in the other expense item? Just give us some color on the moves.
That's really one topic.
I mean so think about the idea that we had a big big loan growth really in the fourth quarter leading into the first.
What we actually had was probably an outsized amount of commercial loan fees whether that be regular loan fees or syndication fees what have you.
And then as you went to the first quarter we probably had an abnormal low amount right coming.
So I think what will happen is that will sort of get back to a normal pattern.
It's hard to really predict syndication-type fees and other credit fees on a quarter-to-quarter basis so it jumps around a little bit.
So I would say fourth was extreme.
First is extreme the other way.
Research Division</strong> And that was same thing on the expenses? That was on the other revenue.
So on the other expenses oh yes yes.
You got to normalize for a couple of things right? So you've got to -- you first got to take  out the day that you right down on the charitable foundation.
And once you do that we were better by about I don't know $10 million $11 million.
And really when you look into what's driving the better performances it's a lot of seasonality.
So you get professional services and those types of things that were higher at the end of the year and some of that will come back.
The first quarter is usually seasonally low than most of the other expenses right? And then it kind of picks up a little bit going forward.
Next question comes from Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is Tom Frick for Bob Ramsey.
Just one quick question.
As expected your tax rate kind of ticked up looks like 6 points this quarter.
Is 33% a good run rate for you going forward? Or how should we think about that? Yes I'm a random walk guy so my answer is yes I think so.
It was low last quarter because of -- because the income was low and we had -- typically you get this fixed tax credit.
So I think we're probably at a pretty good place right now.
Next question comes from Collyn Gilbert of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as we think about the loan growth you had indicated perhaps single-digit loan growth.
A lot of that's obviously being driven by the resi initiative at this point.
As that starts to slow and that sort of strategy maybe plays itself out a bit how do you think about the allocation of capital from there? And how does it change? And is -- maybe tie that into where -- what aspects of your business right now are you kind of most encouraged by? Yes okay.
So take the resis out for a minute we had obviously a nice quarter of loan growth C&amp;I and real estate this quarter.
And then on an end-of-period basis C&amp;I was about 5%.
CRE was about 1%.
So things continue to grow right? And over time I would guess if the economy gets better and you can't continue to see all this liquidity coming into the system then you're going to see growth.
So I'm not too worried about that.
The one sort of benefit I think is that there's so much uncertainty still around capital levels.
Everybody's sort of guessing at where we're going to be in the future.
And so the idea that we are sort of deferring the gains kind of works in our favor because one we're growing capital.
Capital is growing but if we were to accelerate that by selling all the loans then we're not quite sure what our use for that capital would necessarily be particularly as we get up past the range that we're comfortable on the sort of Tier 1 common ratio.
So I mean I think right now it's sort of just a wait and see.
But I mean in terms of what we're pleased with I think we're watching cautiously our pricing but yet our loan growth and everything I look at quarter-over-quarter -- I mean quarter-after-quarter is probably a better term slightly outpaces the industry.
I feel that we've been taking share in a lot of places and that's continued.
So we feel good about that.
And again I guess I would have to reiterate that this is a very very nice quarter from the wealth and trust business.
I think we're very pleased with that.
So I think we got a lot of positives.
The bank is very healthy.
In fact I think the thing that struck me is -- I think it's on Page 14 of our press release where we do the 5-quarter trend and you kind of look at the fees.
The fees were up across the board with the exception of that other that I mentioned and sort of tied to syndication fees.
So I don't know.
We feel pretty good about the way the underlying business is performing.
We got to figure out how to do it a little bit more efficiency -- efficiently when the -- when all this sort of noise from the new environment settles down and we can get our arms around it but that's our task.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just finally how does M&amp;A factor into your strategy over the next 6 to 12 months given what's going on in the environment? Well you don't buy banks.
They get sold.
So hopefully someone will call us up from time to time and if they did we'd probably be ready.
But I think the one practical thing we're doing is -- why we're not really concerned I mean if you think about our dividend policy -- so before obviously 2007 if you looked at our dividends our dividend payout ratio was probably between 25% 27%.
We used to keep it very very low and then we used share buyback.
Now our total payout ratio is somewhere around 40% and it's actually -- when you think of it in total terms it's low.
So we're accumulating capital.
Even beyond sort of the idea of accumulating it for the new regs the new Tier 1 common rules there's not really a ton of cost to doing that today because we think bank stocks are very very low.
I think we did a slide on that.
We went back to 2000 and you can see that the pricing is still relatively low on bank stocks.
And we think that with the regulatory environment we'd be surprised that there's not more consolidation.
So our strategy is really simple: just keep working on your own bank and eventually something will come up that makes sense for both parties and be ready to do it.
Our final question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to kind of refine your commentary around kind of deposit trends.
So it sounds like there's some positive lumpiness coming in the trust business and we had some at the end of the first quarter.
But also the second quarter sometimes can be a more difficult seasonal quarter for deposit growth.
So what is your expectations in terms of total deposit growth? And also how do you feel about the loan-to-deposit ratio now that it's 100% versus your longer term kind of objective? What we talk about here is first of all we have modest growth planned in our deposits for the year particularly because we're more concerned about what happens when the rate environment turns around.
And we've got a really significantly high levels of demand deposits relative to history.
So we're kind of cautious on the idea that if things turned around and you do see loan growth you're probably going to see a runoff in some commercial level deposits as those customers can go out and get better rates or return elsewhere and they start actually using the cash.
So I don't -- I can't tell you what it's going to be.
I can just tell you that we're very cautious about it so we tend not to assume large amounts of growth in the deposit portfolio.
We worked really hard to get it but...
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one follow-up.
Most equity markets are up around kind of 10% 11% in the first quarter and your trust income was only up 3%.
And that's also in the back of a strong kind of fourth quarter.
I know it's a smaller mix of equities but is that normal to see your trust income up around 3% when equity markets are up something significantly higher like 10%? Yes I think it is normal because even when you look at the assets that we have and I'll give you the number in a minute but a -- there's a smaller portion of it is the equity market.
And then a lot of the business particularly in the corporate client service business is not really tied to the market.
It's tied to -- actually it's not tied to the equity market.
It's more tied to the overall capital markets and who is issuing debt and what kind of transactions are going on right? So if you look at our total assets under management I think about 36% are equities.
And so that kind of makes sense 12% up 3% 4% up in our retirement services and those asset-intensive businesses.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's conference.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Don MacLeod of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T Bank's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
As we noted in the press release this year's second quarter financial results reflects strong performance across most of our business.
I'll share the details on these in a moment but let me begin by reviewing the highlights after which Don and I will take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.71 in the second quarter of 2012 up 14% from the $1.50 earned in this year's first quarter.
Net income for the second quarter was $233 million up 13% from $206 million in the linked quarter.
For the purpose of comparison recall that last year's second quarter marked the acquisition of Wilmington Trust Corporation and as such those results included several items related to the merger.
Looking back those items included $67 million of after-tax security gains amounting to $0.54 per common share which was a result repositioning our securities portfolio in connection with the merger in May 2011.
Also included in GAAP earnings in the second quarter of 2011 was a $42 million net after-tax merger-related gain amounting to $0.33 per share.
Finally last year's second quarter included a net $9 million or $0.07 per common share after-tax impact related to our purchase of $370 million of TARP preferred stock that M&amp;T had previously issued to the United States Department of the Treasury.
That purchase resulted in the partial acceleration of the amortization of the discount on that preferred stock which was reflected as a net after-tax $9-million decrease in our net income available to common shareholders.
Reflecting those items diluted GAAP earnings per common share for last year's second quarter were $2.42 per share and net income was $322 million.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangibles as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisition activity.
Included in GAAP earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were merger-related expenses attributable to the Wilmington Trust acquisition amounting to $4 million after-tax or $0.03 per common share.
This compares with $2 million after-tax or $0.01 per common share in the first quarter.
GAAP earnings in last year's second quarter included a $42-million after-tax net merger-related gain.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $10 million or $0.08 per common share in the recent quarter unchanged from the first quarter.
After-tax amortization expense was $9 million or $0.07 per common share in last year's second quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the second quarter of 2012 which as noted excludes only the merger-related gains and expenses and the intangible amortization was $247 million up from $218 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per share were $1.82 for the recent quarter compared with $1.59 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income expressed as an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common equity -- shareholders equity was 1.30% and 18.54% respectively for the recent quarter improved from 1.18% and 16.79% in the first quarter of 2012.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and the income statement.
Tax equivalent net interest income was $655 million for the second quarter of 2012 up $28 million from $627 million in the prior quarter.
As required by GAAP we regularly revisit cash flow projections on which we base our valuations of acquired loans.
In general based on stabilizing economic conditions and our success at restructuring several large acquired loans our estimated cash flows to be generated by acquired loans have increased about -- by about 1%.
Those increases led us to recognize about $14 million of additional interest income last quarter on our $7 billion portfolio of acquired loans.
Certainly as acquired loans repay and that portfolio reduces in size in future periods the dollar amount of interest income earned on acquired loans will also reduce but we -- what we estimate that the incremental impact in each of the last 2 quarters of 2012 should remain at about $13 million to $14 million -- at the $13 million to $14 million level.
Notably lower than expected cash flows on loans must be reserved for immediately.
Reflecting those improved cash flows the net interest margin expanded during the second quarter increasing to 3.74% up from 3.69% in the first quarter.
Major items impacting the comparison with the linked quarter as -- are as follows: The $14 million increase in net interest income on acquired loans that I just noted added 8 basis points to the margin this quarter.
Cash basis interest received on loans previously classified as non-accruing combined with the slightly higher level of prepayment fees was $7 million higher in the recent quarter as compared with the prior quarter.
More than half of the increase came as a result of one large non-accrual loan being fully repaid.
This had a positive impact on the margin of approximately 4 basis points.
During the second quarter we again experienced large inflows of temporary trust deposits which arose from customer funds held in escrow in connection with a bond issuance and the merger transaction.
Where possible we used that cash to pay down discretionary borrowings but the net impact was a $981-million increase in the average cash balances that we held at the Federal Reserve.
The low yield on those higher deposits at the Federal -- Fed reduced the margin by an estimated 5 basis points during the quarter.
Cash held at the Fed returned to a more normal level by the end of the quarter.
Core banking activities reflected slight compression in the margin with new loans coming on at yields lower than those already on the books and this has largely been offset by lower deposit rates and a higher portion of non-interest-bearing deposits.
The net impact for the quarter was approximately -- was an approximate 2-basis-point reduction.
I'll discuss our outlook for the margin in a few moments.
As for the balance sheet average loan growth in the second quarter was strong increasing by approximately $1.3 billion or an annualized 9% to $61.8 billion.
On that same basis compared with 2012's first quarter changes in average loans by category were as follows: Commercial and industrial loans grew by $372 million or an annualized 10%.
Commercial real estate loans grew by $178 million or an annualized 3%.
Residential real estate loans were up by $930 million reflecting our program of retaining the bulk of our conforming mortgage loan originations to hold on our balance sheet.
Consumer loans declined an annualized 5% driven by lower-end direct auto loans and modestly lower home equity loans and lines of credit.
This was partially offset by a 7% annualized growth in all other consumer loans primarily recreation finance.
On an end-of-period basis loans grew $1.9 billion or an annualized 13% compared with the linked quarter.
Included in this figure was 12% annualized growth for C&amp;I loans and 7% annualized growth for the CRE loans which sets us up nicely as we enter the third quarter.
Average investment securities continue to decline as our appetite for purchasing securities remained low in the second quarter based on the low yields available.
Instead we continued with our program to retain residential mortgage loan production.
Looking to deposits on the deposit side average core customer deposits which exclude foreign deposits and CDs greater than $250 000 were up an annualized 18% reflecting the large inflows of temporary trust deposits that I mentioned previously.
As a result as noted M&amp;T's average interest-bearing deposits at the Fed increased by approximately $1 billion compared with the first quarter.
The majority of the increase was paid out by the end of the quarter.
Thus on an end-of-period basis core deposits increased an annualized 14%.
We continued to benefit from the disruptions to consumers and businesses impacted by the HSBC branch divestiture in Upstate New York.
Average loans in Upstate in Western New York -- in the Western New York region were up an annualized 8% compared to the linked quarter.
That includes 18% annualized growth in commercial and industrial loans.
Average core deposits in Upstate and Western New York region were up by an annualized 15% compared with the linked quarter and up 12% compared with last year's second quarter.
Turning to non-interest income.
Non-interest income totaled $392 million in the second quarter compared with $377 million in the prior quarter.
The recent quarter results included $16 million of other than temporary impairment charges related to our investment securities portfolio compared with $11 million in the linked quarter.
Excluding those charges from both periods non-interest income was $408 million for the recent quarter up 5% from $388 million in the first quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues rose to $70 million in the recent quarter compared with $56 million in the prior quarter.
We saw increased levels of activity on both the commercial and the residential sides of our business.
On the residential side so-called HARP 2 loans bolstered gains on -- gain on sale revenues from both a volume and a margin perspective.
Fee income from the deposit services provided which include debit card interchange were $111 million during the recent quarter compared with $109 million in the linked quarter.
Trust revenues rose to $122 million in the recent quarter compared with $117 million in the prior quarter.
Contributing to the increase were seasonal tax-preparation-related-revenues and merger-related synergies as well as new business wins.
Turning to expenses.
On operating expenses which exclude merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible assets were $604 million for the second quarter.
This compares to the $620 million in the first quarter which includes $26 million of seasonally high -- the $620 million in the first quarter which included $26 million of seasonally high compensation-related items.
The seasonal factors returned to more normal levels in the second quarter.
The conversion of our trust systems to a single operating platform has been substantially completed.
We expect no additional merger-related expenses related to Wilmington -- to the Wilmington Trust acquisition.
We do expect continued realization of merger savings in the second half of 2012.
The efficiency ratio which excludes security gains and losses as well as tangible amortization and merger-related gains and expenses was 56.9% for the second quarter compared with 61.1% in the first quarter of 2012.
Next let's turn to credit.
Credit trends continued to show improvements.
For example non-accrual loans decreased to 1.54% of total loans at the end of the second quarter down from 1.75% of total loans at the end of the previous quarter.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken in foreclosure of defaulted loans were $116 million as of June 30 also down from $140 million as of March 31.
Net charge-offs for the second quarter were $52 million up slightly from $48 million in the first quarter of 2012.
And annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 34 basis points compared with 32 basis points in the linked quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $60 million in the second quarter compared with $49 million in the linked quarter.
The provision exceeded net charge-offs and as a result the allowance for credit losses increased to $917 million at the end of the second quarter.
The increase in part reflects the $1.9 billion of loan growth that we saw during the quarter.
While the dollar amount of loan loss allowance increased the ratio of allowance to credit losses to total loans declined slightly to 1.46% compared with 1.49% at the end of the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of June 30 2012 was 4.5x annualized net charge-offs for the quarter.
We disclosed loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately from non-accrual loans because they are deemed to be well secured in the process of collection which is to say there is low risk of principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due were $275 million at the end of the recent quarter of those 255 or 93% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Loans 90 days past due were $273 million at the end of the -- this year's first quarter of which a similar 93% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
Lastly while we don't report criticized loan levels until our 10-Q is filed we do expect another meaningful decrease in the second quarter.
M&amp;T's estimated Tier 1 common capital ratio was 7.15% at the end of June up from 7.04% at the end of March and this reflects higher capital from retained earnings partially offset by a larger end-of-quarter balance sheet.
Lastly I'd like to offer a few thoughts on our general outlook.
We expect the net interest margin to be fairly stable over the second half of 2012 with some slight downward pressure from lower yields on new loans offset by lower costs on deposits and on other borrowings.
Overall as we noted on both the January and April earnings conference calls we continued to expect the full year net interest margin of 2012 to be modestly lower than the 3.73 reported for the full year of 2011.
Combined with the continued growth -- continued loan growth we also continue to expect growth in net interest income throughout 2012.
As a result of the stronger-than-expected mortgage banking activity over the past year we are thinking about our internal targets for the retention of conforming residential mortgage loans.
And we've already begun retaining a lower proportion of our 30-year fixed rate originations beginning in this year's third quarter.
We would not expect our overall retention of mortgage loans to remain at current -- at the current elevated levels much beyond the end of 2012.
While pleased to see our efficiency ratio decline to 56.9% in the recent quarter we do expect that expenses will continue to be well controlled through the remainder of the year.
The conversion of Wilmington Trust systems is complete and realizing the remaining merger synergies will serve to offset the continued pressure from new regulatory mandates.
As we mentioned we do not expect any additional merger-related expenses.
Credit continues to strengthen.
We expect continued improvement in the non-accrual and criticized loan ratios with charge-offs remaining stable.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
I appreciate your patience.
We'll now open up the call to questions before which Paula will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question from comes the line of Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions René just in terms of the Wilmington Trust acquisition.
First you mentioned a couple of things on the trust revenue benefit this quarter.
Could you give us a better sense just with some of the components as I think about the legacy Wilmington the private client business and in particular like their corporate services business how that may have contributive for some of the strength in the quarter? Yes.
I think that for the most part most of the businesses held up very very well on a linked-quarter basis and as I talked about the largest portion of the increase then came from some tax services that we provide tax-related services that we provide to our customers and that tends to be seasonal fees.
We also had a bit of a lift because as you bring together the 2 entities particular things like the funds as you merge the funds you begin to get synergies on net revenues.
So net of fees you're paying to service providers.
So those things helped.
If you look into the business we saw a little bit of an uptick in the retirement services space.
We saw that the capital markets group was a little weaker continued weakness is probably what I would say because there hasn't been much issuance.
Having said that I guess as I think about corporate America and I think about what's out there there's a lot of pent-up demand for refinancings and so I think down the road that probably bodes pretty well for us.
But that was slightly weaker than maybe where it typically would run given the capital markets.
And then also we're seeing a little bit of a slowdown in where the agent brought in on syndicated loans because obviously credit is working out better.
So we have the engagements we have but in terms of new business I mean that's slowing which is probably a good sign for the rest of the business.
But overall we're on track.
We're sort of above where we expected to be and that's nice and I think things are going pretty well there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then perhaps if you could just give us a sense now with the integration complete and particularly as I think about like the wealth management business and trust overall could you give us just kind of the mix now how that may have changed or how that again just generally breaks down as I think about private client traditional trust that sort of thing? I guess at some point -- I'll break that up for you.
I don't have it with me right now.
In part because we don't really think about it in exactly that same way right? So at some point if we break out CCS which is the largest portion of the revenues from wealth when I think about the wealth right again I think about what's going to happen on the wealth side as an addition to the existing customer base.
Much of that growth is going to be coming from M&amp;T's preexisting clients right? So as we offer them services whether they be cash management wealth transfer or helping them exit their business we kind of think of them in that way.
So in part I tend to look at some of that as how we're doing on our commercial bank side right and how is that working with our private bank.
So we don't really break it out separately that way.
But things are pretty stable.
I'd say that if you think that a year has passed I think our marks are probably good for keeping the portfolio relatively stable but we still have a lot of work to do in order to go out there and penetrate the M&amp;T customer base.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The only reason I asked is just to get it from a modeling standpoint with some of the seasonality in some of the businesses just to get a better sense of the mix and how to think about it.
Yes.
At some point I guess we'll lay that out maybe in our Q or not but I haven't done that yet so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly on the mortgage and the benefit this quarter could -- was there any uptick at all in terms of the reps and warranties some of what we're hearing from some of the other companies this quarter in terms...
in terms of repurchase request? Research Division</strong> In terms of the number of requests yes.
Yes.
So the number of requests was relatively stable.
If you remember we had talked throughout last year and that we were somewhere around 25 to 35 requests.
Last quarter this quarter maybe we were somewhere around 36 37 requests sort of at the higher end of that.
But they still remain in check.
Having said that we're also concerned about the same sort of things that you saw which is sort of changing behavior.
We do our best in fact to be surprised to reach out to the other parties to make sure we understand their pipelines the things that are coming to us.
But even with that I would say when you look at our Q you'll see that we continued to set aside amounts either for make whole prices on loans repurchase requests or reserves for future ones.
So we're very cautiously looking at that stuff and just because no one's called us doesn't mean that we take the position that they won't.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Can you disclose where that reserve position ended at the quarter? What we do is we keep disclosing how much we've charged in the quarter.
I think this quarter that was $10 million.
Last quarter it was $4 million.
A year ago it was about $10 million.
Our next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the commercial real estate growth which is really the opposite of what some of your peers are seeing.
Can you talk about which geographies and industries are supplying this and maybe why your growth is stronger than peers? In commercial real estate? Research Division</strong> Yes.
right.
Yes.
I can talk a little bit about it.
I mean I think the growth is also kind of split between Philly New York Hudson Valley at about annualized growth of 5%.
All of our Pennsylvania market saw about 2% annualized growth.
And then in Baltimore Washington which includes Delaware which is important we're seeing about 4% growth.
I mentioned this is important because you got to remember we've got he acquired portfolios underneath that are probably still running off right? So one of the things that you saw in the addition of our move of stuff from non-accretable to accretable yield is simply the fact that in Delaware we have higher prepayment fees than we probably initially thought.
So that kind of gives you a sense that at least in the quarter that it's not really concentrated in one area.
I would guess maybe part of the issue is that we probably still have less run-off in real estate because our book is pretty good pretty clean.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then when you think about pricing terms LTVs can you talk about how they trended over the last 6 months here and especially on LTVs.
I know it's tough because it's a wide range maybe several [ph] average -- the average LTVs have been trending? Average LTVs have been trending.
Well we -- let me start by saying we haven't seen a significant pressure.
First of all last quarter I said that there wasn't much change in terms of pricing pressure over the last 6 months.
This quarter that continued and quite frankly even though we had higher volume our pricing and our ROEs held up very nicely.
So I thought that was very impressive.
As you know we track every deal we do both in terms of margin but also in terms of a full P&amp;L.
What it tells me is that a lot of the business we're getting is not just loan business but it's probably the operating business as well which is the only way that you can really get in this environment pretty strong internal ROEs on the business.
So if that helps my sense is that we're doing a nice job of capturing full relationships.
The LTVs I don't think have changed.
And I would guess if you think of our total book it sits in the 60s in terms of loan to value on commercial real estate.
That hasn't changed at all.
Research Division</strong> And how about terms are terms extending at all in terms of duration? We -- how do I say this? We could have increased volume by moving in that direction but we chose not to do that.
So not for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But the industry has? You -- I don't know if it's a change but there's a pocket of business out there that you can get if you wanted to change your standards.
It doesn't make any sense for us to change our standards.
So I don't know if that's a change but when I look overall I didn't see a big change this quarter from talking to everybody in terms of competitive pricing and competitive structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> René I was just wondering I guess with the NIM guidance that you give of again still sticking to the modestly lower than the 3.73 in 2011.
Obviously the second quarter included the $14-million impact from the accelerated accretable yield.
Now are you expecting -- maybe you can just remind me what you just said earlier about.
You expect that same level of accelerated accretable yield to be in the numbers so therefore in your guidance for the margin for the second half of the year.
Yes.
So let me think about it this way.
So the way I would think about it is we said $14 million was in this quarter.
I don't expect that to change significantly next quarter or the quarter after because that's real cash right? And what you should know is that as you think about it over time the number will come down because the loan book prepays right? So you won't keep at that pace.
But as I sort of look out just a last couple of quarters we feel pretty confident that those cash projections will continue for that period of time and then we'll have to give you better estimates as we move out.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to make sure I understand it then so in the first quarter 10-Q you said you had about $81 million of accretable yield that went through NII right? So total on all the acquired portfolios? Okay.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that mean there was $95 million in the second quarter if we use that $14 million of the increased cash flow impact? I think it was more -- I mean I'm going to -- it might change to something more like $90 million somewhere in that range but you're pretty close.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question on the NIM guidance thinking about opportunities in the second half of the year to maybe refinance some higher costs CDs and then you've also got quite a bit of high-cost capital trust preferreds out there.
So do you think about -- you have the $3-billion shelf you filed earlier in the second quarter.
Is there a possibility of looking at trying to use that shelf to refinance some of those high-cost capital trust preferred as well? Well I mean the shelf is there because you got to have a shelf.
In particular we actually have to have a shelf technically because we have the TARP.
So you got to have that.
We did for example finance -- I should say pay off about a $400 million borrowing of sub debt that was past disqualification so it ran out of capital treatments so we prepaid it.
And we have the opportunity to do things like that from some time so we did that I think beginning I think it was July 1.
So you have benefits from that.
And then ultimately I think you've got it on the hybrids and all that.
There's a lot room there but I can't figure out the timing all right because it all has to go in sequence with whatever we end up doing with TARP and all the hybrids and the whole thing together.
So I'm just not quite sure on timing but as I look into the future I have some benefit.
That is not counted in my fact or those hybrids and those things are not counted when I think -- when I say I think our margin should be relatively stable for the second half of the year from where we are today.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little more color on the loan growth that you saw in the quarter for example how much of that consumer real estate growth was actual retention of the one for family originations? And then separately just a little more color on the commercial growth that you saw.
Yes so I'll have someone check that.
I don't think our -- I think almost all of that growth was the -- was what we held for the portfolio as opposed to increases in the pipeline.
But I can get that for you.
And then really again if you think about it I mean if I look overall on the C&amp;I side we had really strong growth in Upstate New York 18% compounded -- annualized growth but it's kind of across the board New York Philadelphia Tarrytown -- or Hudson Valley we saw the same.
Pennsylvania we saw growth.
We saw a slight decline in C&amp;I in Baltimore Washington Delaware.
I think part of that is the prepay on Delaware but it's also we had the payout of a large non-performer that would have been in the Baltimore area so those -- the declines are coming from a positive thing.
And then I talked about commercial real estate.
There is nothing concentrated about it.
It's not in one segment.
It's not just in auto.
When you kind of listen to everybody across the regions it comes from a multiple different types of businesses.
I don't think it's a big change.
It's actually up slightly from where we've been running.
But I think year-over-year we probably have very similar growth.
So for example we had almost 10% annualized growth in C&amp;I but on a year-over-year basis we had 10% growth in C&amp;I.
So I think things are holding steady but they're going pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then secondly how much was your unamortized premium on the balance sheet as of the end of the quarter? Unamortized premium.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
In your MBS portfolio sorry.
I don't think -- I think I understand what you're saying.
I don't think that concept applies.
So let me say this that if you were -- give me a second.
Let me -- if you look at our loan yield most of our loans prior to this quarter our acquired loans were recorded at a premium as opposed to a discount.
And just said another way we had acquired loan yields were lower than our legacy coupon.
So after making the change it's changed slightly.
So give me a second.
I think what I'd say is that you saw that our loan yields were 4.42 for the quarter.
I would say we're about 40 basis points or so higher than that.
Oh I'm sorry are you asking about our MBS? Research Division</strong> Yes actually I indicate on the MBS portfolio.
I was interested in getting a gauge for your premium amortization expense.
Most of what we do or putting on the books is 101.3 right? So there's not a lot of prepayment risks in the sense that if it prepays we end up just replacing them at very similar yields.
I kind of didn't quite get what you were asking.
The other thing to think about when you stay with that topic is that as you think about what's happening out there we don't have some of the same risks as everybody else when you move to our securities book which is MBS because last year we sold a couple of billion dollars of our securities book and we sold most of the higher-yielding securities right? So we have less concern about seeing high prepays that we couldn't replace.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly can you just give a little bit of color on the impact of the new Basel III NPR on your Tier 1 common ratio? What -- how much of a basis point impact that would bring about? I got to tell you we were looking at it -- we're looking at what all you guys are calculating.
I think at some point beginning in next year we'll probably have to publish it and put it on our Q as to what we think the impact is.
But we really haven't finalized what our calculations are.
I think at the end of the day we'd rather be more certain than to do a speculative number there but with the new NPR we're beginning to do that.
And I think by the beginning of or end of this year beginning of next year we'll be publishing something.
Whatever we publish though I think will -- doesn't really reflect the fact that of anything that we'd be able to do to mitigate the impact right? So whether it'd be MSRs whether it be the deferred tax position that we have or the types of loans that we have on our books I mean there's -- or securities there's probably a lot that we can over time to mitigate whatever the impact will be.
But we'll -- in about 6 months we'll be disclosing that -- those numbers.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just coming back to the margin outlook I think we're all clear now that the step-up from the accretion benefit that kind of run rates.
But what I want to try to understand is over time obviously that benefit will decline.
Can you help us understand from the current run rate of all things acquired loans of this $90 million or so what the pace of runoff would be over the next couple of years? Is it fairly ratable? Or is there a really long duration of these assets that will kind of keep it in somewhat extended out? Any color just on the kind of role and the duration would be helpful.
Yes.
Let me give you a couple of things.
So I'll try to make it as simple as possible but I'll start with a caveat which is we have to look at these things every quarter and we look at all the cash flows.
So barring any changes generally we talked about where we thought it would be for the next couple of quarters.
It's a rough rule of thumb.
I would say that the amount of change that would be in our numbers next year for 4 quarters would be equivalent to what we saw in the 3 quarters this year give or take a few million dollars.
And then it starts to run down further from there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry René that the amount of change? Can you just -- that's...
Well so we talked about a $14 million change right? So -- and then we said that that amount that we're adding is probably fairly similar in the next couple of quarters right? So you take those 3 quarters and you get an amount.
I would guess in the next year 2013 our fourth quarter amount will be very similar to that amount right? So it's coming down but we've got 4 quarters instead of 3.
And then from there it continues and it's paced out I mean predicting it out many more years than 2013 I think just probably doesn't make much sense.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're saying that -- so I'm sorry that's still a little confusing.
So you get 3x $14 million and stays but then next year you're basically saying that $42 million would be the whole year? That's probably -- I mean I'm not giving you the $42 million because I -- I mean these are rough numbers but generally yes you've got the right concept right? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it starts to drip down and then it's fair to look at it as if that kind of drips down sort of by that proportion as we go forward? Yes as loans pay off.
So why I'm so cautious is the prepayments fees pick up the changes right? If they slow down it changes and -- but that's generally what we have modeled to date as we sit here today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
So it's not an incremental positive.
It stays at this level for the next few quarters and then has a gradual roll over the next few years presuming that the book is prepaying as you kind of expect it.
If in fact it prepays faster you can always redo the cash flows like you did this quarter? Yes exactly and it's because -- you got it exactly Ken.
And the reason that that's the case is because we're talking about cash right? So as those loans prepay then the next question as we through analysis is did it pay on loans -- did we get paid on loans that we thought were impaired is a good thing.
Obviously we get paid on loans that we thought were clean right? So there's a lot of moving parts that come into it but you've got the concept for it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is if we just -- I heard your comments again about being able to hold up loan yields versus -- or the decline in loan yields would kind of track the ongoing decline and funding costs again for the next couple of quarters.
I guess the question is how competitive is it on the loan side and then also how much room do you think you can continue to reduce deposit costs again in the out year in the next year couple -- next year or so.
You know we tried to be very diligent in saying that we've got a couple of basis points of compression almost every quarter right? So I think that there that exists in my sense is is that as we ran out on the liability side of repricing which we know we're getting pretty close so beyond the 2 quarters I think that's the number that I would throw out there that we're going to see a couple of basis points of slowly [ph] margin compression.
You've heard the earlier question Brian Klock raised is -- well then the question is can you refinance anything else in terms of hybrids and those types of things.
We haven't thought about that.
It's too far away to think of it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when I bring it all together we'll have a natural decline in accretable in the accretion benefit over time and then there's this -- and unfortunately with the rate environment there'll just be a little bit of a drip on the core as well? Yes I think that's right.
And the thing I keep in mind as you think about revisiting acquired loans I mean I was about to say earlier when I was on the wrong topic that if you look at our loan yield today 4.42 I think they were we're about 30 40 basis points higher now on the acquired book.
But I think the biggest book is Wilmington and on the Wilmington-acquired loans I think our yield is roughly 4.44.
So again we don't have a lot of replacement risk there right which is a real positive thing.
And quite frankly if there's any change in the rate environment right we probably can replace those at higher margins higher yield end margin right? For where you take in the funding cost side.
So with no change I think you've described the state of affairs which is basically no change in the rate environment no change in anything but we're always trying to position ourselves to make sure that we're okay in all rate environments right? Our next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll start -- is the C&amp;I loan growth the sign that the loan pie increased in the second quarter? Or is the market share gains particularly given a relatively large transaction in your backyard? The latter is true.
We picked up a few more clients but I think we've got -- the activity we see is a lot from our existing clients.
I think the Upstate New York is a whole different thing and that's where a lot of the growth came from.
But in other markets I'd say it's just a little more quiet out there.
So again it's not a big change.
I mean it feels a little stronger this quarter but I would guess if you took away the Western New York parts of things that it wouldn't be.
Don is pointing out to me that the usage in outstanding is up a little bit as well right? So it seems like outside of Western New York is coming from more usage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So despite even the macro backdrop you're not seeing any signs yet of corporate borrowers getting more cautious? They're still cautious as far as I'm concerned.
Cash balances are really high and they just haven't changed right? Yes the reflection of caution yield the deposit inflows I think probably are a reflection of that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And maybe René where are we on the cost saves now with Wilmington? I know we have talked about $90 million to $100 million.
Can you give us a sense what percentage is now in the run rate? I'm going to guess and all -- everybody in the room is going to get queasy.
I think it's around 16%.
I think we'll be around 20%.
And I think you'll see in the second half I can't -- really I think -- I think we'll see some benefit next quarter but I'm sure we'll see benefit in the next 2 quarters from the conversions and things that we've done and actions we've taken and then maybe a little bit after that.
But if I were to guess I'd say we're at 16% now and by the end of the year we'll be maybe not quite at 20% but pretty getting close or 18% something like that.
But turned out pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And I just want to clarify in your comments about retaining mortgages did you say you plan to still retain in the second half but to a lower degree and then go back to selling fixed rate production in 2013? Yes.
So what we did is we starting in the month of June maybe even in the second half of the month we decided to discontinue retaining a number of the 30-year programs.
So we might have -- in the second quarter I think the number's probably like -- about 63% of our production in the second quarter that we put on the books was above 20-year.
And now we're on pace for that number of 30-year to be -- to go below 50.
20 -- 20 plus to go below 50 because we're discontinuing programs.
I think we'll continue to do that.
So the longer stuff will slow down by the time we get to near the end of the year beginning of next year.
I -- my guess is that what we'll be doing is using more 15-year-type paper and maybe 20-year paper to sort of replace runoff right? But we had -- we started the program I don't know a year ago or so.
It's -- we've had more volume than we thought we would get right? And as I said all along we only have so much appetite there.
We really don't want to totally change the profile of our book and we really only did this in part because we weren't taking on investment securities.
So that's what I think will taper it off a little bit as we go moving -- focusing on duration first and then volume.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask Steve's expense question another way.
So I feel like because mortgage banking revenues are so strong.
There are some distortion in terms of the dollar number.
I guess could you give us a sense of what you expect the efficiency ratio on your mortgage banking unit to run for the rest of the year? And separately your expectation for the efficiency ratio for the rest of the Bank x mortgage banking? First of all it's a great question.
I don't know that I can answer the question because I would say whatever the efficiency ratio is of our book which -- do we have it in the segment? I don't know if we have it in the segment either.
It's just abnormally high today right because we've got a lot of volume coming on high margins and you don't have the ability to ramp up your production enough so it's abnormally high.
So I think if you remove that or put it this way what's happened really is we've got a nice benefit from mortgage banking which will be somewhat short term.
I don't know how long.
But in the interim we're going to have to really continue to focus on the expense side because of the core bank hasn't seen the full improvement yet that we need -- we probably need to see to sort of sustain a low to mid-50s efficiency ratio when the mortgage banking kind of subsides.
But as you think about the Wilmington side we're in pretty good position because we've got more expense savings that it will kind of flow in and the work is done.
And the other thing Erika that I'd tell you is that in our expense space today is a fair amount of expense.
I don't know how to characterize it.
I don't want to say it's nonrecurring but it's expenses related to gearing up for the new regulatory environment whether it be consultants on -- that we use on capital policy or whether it be other expenses that we're using to sort of build out our new compliance structure and so forth that over time we'll settle down a bit.
So even though you can kind of see when you look year-over-year -- and I think next quarter you'll see year-over-year -- when you look you'll be able to see the impact of Wilmington Trust.
I think that there's still probably some room to at least to be able to sort of contain expense growth because our regulatory costs are high.
One of the areas that's very high these days is professional services right? And I think that's primarily because of all of the change that we're going through.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last question.
I know you've been asked the accretable question many ways in this call and I appreciate the color that you gave Ken.
I'm just wondering did what happen in the quarter -- was that a reclassification from non-accretable to accretable so the credit experience over the lifetime is better and that's why it's not a clipped [ph] vest? And if so I guess clearly the prepayment levels are going to be a big swing factor in terms of how much it drops off but potentially if credit expectations continue to be better relative to the mark you could just be refilling that accretable tank so to speak.
I think everything you said the way you said it was true.
So let me go back through.
So first of all yes it was.
After looking at the cash flows we reclassified -- and this will be in our Q -- about $140 million from non-accretable i.e.
cash flows that were owed to us that we didn't expect to collect we now expect to collect and were moved to accretable yields right? And then -- and that comes from 3 factors.
One we worked out some deals in a more favorable way than we thought.
The environment seems a little bit better but also because prepays are faster.
Those aren't -- usually those are pretty consistent in a sense right? And so I think the last part is you never know.
It depends on what happens to the economic environment and if we see the current trends continue or continue to be more favorable than we've projected from now yes we could have more.
And I think the way to think about it again is I point to the yields.
I think we've been doing that since we did the Provident acquisition That's the way to look at this.
That yield on the Wilmington Trust is almost spot on our -- what we're originating loans at today basically our legacy loans book.
So that tells you that unlike most acquisitions you've seen in the past those yields have been at a -- the loans have been booked at a significant discount.
In our case to the extent that we continue to see improved results even beyond what we see today yes there could be more but it's hard to tell right? The other thing I would point out is that to the extent that we look at any particular loan in our book and it goes the other way where the cash flows are worse then we take that charge immediately into the provision.
And we've done that over time.
We had some of that this quarter as well right? So it kind of goes both ways.
But the accounting forces you to be conservative on the positive side.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> René a couple of quick ones I guess.
How long -- you mentioned some benefit from the disruption in the Western New York market.
I guess I'm curious as to how long you think that that might provide an upside benefit to your loan growth.
Is it a one quarter issue? Is it a 4 quarter issue? Is it -- how should we think about that? I -- one I really don't know.
I only could assume that what's really happening is people are trying to settle in to the change that's happened in the marketplace and that change is not just driven by the HSBC sale.
It's driven by the physical conversions.
You know that recently the names on the branches on -- another set of branches changed to KeyBank.
And then if you go further to other places in Upstate New York that's continuing to happen.
So the best I could say is just through this year is people kind of settle in and try to figure out where they want to keep their lasting banking relationship.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on the provision.
Given that you saw a 10% quarter-over-quarter decline in the NPA balances it certainly sounds from the -- from your earlier comments that you're expecting credit quality to continue to get a little bit better how should we think about the potential for reducing reserves over the next 2 to 3 quarters? Isn't that just driven by lower losses lower delinquencies? Or is there something else that you're adding to your analysis that makes you a bit more cautious? I think the first thing to look at is our -- the allowance to loans is coming down right? So you see it there.
So the inputs to the allowance are yes there's improving credit.
I think in part that's somewhat offset by the loan -- what we need to add for the loan growth so if loan growth subsided that would be -- you might see something there.
And the other piece is that as we look at the acquired loan book while we have $140 million of cash flows that as Erica said we moved from non-accretable to accretable from time to time we'll see credits that go the other way right? That we'll have to add to the provision immediately.
So those are the components.
But if you look at it last year this time our allowance to loans was 155 we're down to 146 so it's a fairly -- I consider that a meaningful decline.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one final quick question.
You mentioned HARP 2.0 was a bit of a benefit to the mortgage business this quarter.
What amount of your total originations this quarter were related to HARP 2.0? Yes.
Let me look for that number.
I don't know the number.
57 and just to make sure I think I believe that number.
so it -- well let me give you the numbers.
I mean that's probably easier.
So we originated new locks which were a total of $1.7 billion okay? Only $864 million went to Treasury okay? So take those out.
So if you think about the gain on sale you just take the $1.7 billion.
Take out the $864 million and you're left with the total.
$492 million of that was HARP and I think that gets you to a 57% of what we're selling okay? We sell all the HARP.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But in terms of total -- but in terms of HARP relative to the total originations it would be the roughly $500 million divided by the roughly $1.7 billion correct? Yes correct.
Your next question comes from Collyn Gilbert of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- want to follow up on that reserve question.
So you've indicated obviously that's a fairly meaningful drop to date.
But I guess I'm looking at it maybe a little bit differently.
And I heard you on the moving parts in terms of the non-accretable component and swings in that.
But I guess if I look at it -- I mean at the peak of the crisis you guys saw losses.
I mean your losses peaked at 1% so in my mind it seems as if your reserve could go quite a bit lower especially given where we are in the overall cycle economic cycle than where you stand now.
I mean or are you suggesting that kind of keeping in this 145 level is where you're going to be? You always ask great questions.
So first of all I would characterize it differently.
In a single year we had 1% losses right? And our job is to look at the losses inherent in our book that we can identify over time.
And then to some extent there's a portion that we might not be able to identify right? So you can't use the 1-year loss estimate against the -- that process.
I don't know I guess if we continue to see the loan growth -- and I think there's going to be downward pressure on the allowance to loan levels.
As we've seen I don't see anything that's going to change it.
I feel pretty good about the integrity of our process because the way I look at it Collyn is that the depth of the crisis we had coverage of about 1.2% or something like -- actually 1.5% of our charge-offs 1.5x I should say right? And so the idea that after the depths of a crisis you're sitting there with a year's worth or a 1.5 years' worth of coverage tells us that we did a pretty good job in our allowance methodology of identifying the risks that were inherent in the portfolio.
I don't know how to think about it any different but...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just on the resi Mortgage strategy so when we think about kind of the funding of the growth at least for the back half of this year is that going to come out of kind of your cash balances or your interest-bearing deposit balances? And then how should we think about the relationship between -- if we're not going to see growth in resi mortgages next year does that mean we see -- start to see some growth on the MBS side? Or how are you thinking about it in totality? Yes.
Well I think the way I look at it is -- first of all straight answer I think we've been funding everything with deposits because deposit balances have been very high.
As we look forward I think that the underlying loan growth is not bad right? I mean look at the stats we gave you today.
And then I think really we kind of hit our -- we're getting close to what we think is a natural limit on the amount of resi mortgages we have on hold.
So I'm not sure that even if rates stay low that we'll be able to sort of go -- jump in and start buying securities again.
We'll have to look at that.
I think to date it's been a nice substitute but I think we're just very cautious.
We don't tend to put a lot of long duration on.
I don't know we're kind of nearing about $10 billion.
We're getting closer to $10 billion in the resi books.
And I just think the best way to think about it is we probably for at least for now maybe hitting our tolerance level.
I don't know how to -- I think that's the best I could tell you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
That's helpful.
Okay.
And then just 2 quick items.
The -- did you say or do you have the number what the seasonal tax items were in that trust line? Oh no but it was about $3 million.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then the $14 million in accretable yield that you saw how did that break up between C&amp;I and CRE? I think it's mostly CRE and because a lot of it's coming from Wilmington and actually Provident right? I don't know the exact number but most of it is CRE.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final question did you say on the temporary trust deposits was that - what was the dollar amount of those 2 that kind of inflowed in the quarter? Absolute dollar amount was really high.
The average was about just under $1 billion.
But at one point I think we peaked at like $4 billion during the quarter.
Right.
So you just got the -- but they were there for 30 days or something like that or so.
Your next question comes from Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Research Division</strong> You just mentioned that you guys are getting close to the natural limit on the amount of resi mortgages you want on your balance sheet.
How do you think about that limit? I mean is there a percent of assets a percent of earning assets? Kind of what factors into that decision? And then what is the yield at the margin on mortgage production today versus MBS that you might purchase? Yield on the margin -- well I think I'll get that number for you but somewhere in here something like 380 was what we put on.
Just give me a second.
Let me find that.
We put on -- well I have to ask someone to find it for you but I think it's somewhere in the high 3s in terms of -- yes I'm looking at 360 somewhere around there.
It's not too much change from where we were last quarter so that's that.
And then just give me the first part of your question again.
Research Division</strong> Well in that 360 I guess is on originated loans how does that compare to mortgage-backed securities that you would be buying in the market? We're not buying them.
I don't know.
We're not buying them so they would -- I would guess they'd be 50 basis points lower but that's a guess.
And to your other question on how we think about the natural limits I mean we look at a lot of things.
We look at our asset sensitivity.
We look at our duration and our exposure to any one class.
We also think that about the profitability of those loans over long periods of time.
And I don't know how to say it but I'd say that we're not reached any internal technical limit but we sort of [indiscernible] appetite today before putting it on pause because remember for 20 or 30 years we never retained mortgages right? So we've moved the  position of debt.
I think we're going to probably sit on it after a while and sort of see how it feels and watch the risk metrics and then go from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in the mortgage-backed securities portfolio what is the CPR that you all are seeing on the portfolio you have today? I don't know if someone has it but I think we've -- it's been creeping up a bit.
But the last quarter maybe it was around 10% not very high.
And I think it might be in the low teens maybe 12% somewhere in that range.
It's even at an annualized basis.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's slow [ph].
That's good.
The new -- just so you know the new 30-year MBS yields would be 250.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the mortgage backed what were the gain on sale margins this quarter? And do you think looking at it next quarter they'll be more or less stable? And sort of how does the pipeline today look versus last quarter? Obviously as you said you'll all be selling more of whatever production there is.
Yes the gain on sale margins were relatively stable.
We -- they move a little bit depending on the percentage that you have of HARP and the -- so in a sense the actual number was higher because more of what we are actually selling is HARP right? I don't know if I have the exact number.
In total the gain on sale new losses around 3% right? And so that's definitely elevated because of HARP.
I think typically we'd be lower 2s maybe 2% if we were just talking about normal production.
Research Division</strong> And then HARP presumably is going to still be a big piece next quarter as well so would you expect it to be comparable? Sure.
I think it continues for the rest of this year.
I mean our pipeline was strong.
So when I look at like applications I don't see a big change in that mix.
And then I look and say to myself -- I'll give you a couple of numbers.
We had application volume -- this is sort of the front end of the process.
It was up 23% linked quarter.
And then we track another thing which we call our mortgage pipeline which is apps minus things that are denied withdrawn or closed loans so it's the purest sort of indicator of what's going on into next quarter and that was up 26%.
So there is really no pace a slowing of pace right as we kind of go from second to third in my mind.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like volumes should be stronger the percent that you sell should be stronger and the margin should be stable.
Is that fair? I mean my guess it's a lot of moving parts in that business but yes I mean I don't see a lot of things changing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last question for you the FDIC assessment expense was down pretty meaningfully this quarter.
Any thoughts there? Is this quarter a good run rate? Or what drove the improvement? It can be -- let me just say asset mix and then we continue to try to think about ways in which we can change our behavior to make sure that we're optimizing that and so our goal will be to focus on that number over time whether it'd be on sort of looking at the amount of construction lending we've done or looking at how we -- making sure we're properly classifying loans and a whole host of other things.
We look at it pretty closely.
Again I say it every time.
We're the 90th percentile.
That's not a good thing for us so we're going to focus on that line.
Your final question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for you is in terms of the improvement in credit quality that you've seen and what you expect to hopefully see in the next 6 to 12 months is there any particular asset class that's improving better than expected or faster than expected? And geographically are there any parts of the footprint that are performing better? Yes I mean we saw improvements -- most of the improvement I would say is in the commercial real estate space.
So a slight improvement in C&amp;I but one of the things you're seeing Gerard is that I think it has a lot to do with the low rate environment.
I think it's also very much akin to what we talked about on the acquired book which is that we're finding that we're able to either restructure or work out transactions more favorably than we might have thought.
And part of that is because other lenders or the markets are actually willing to sort of step in at the prices that we've got sort of the non-performing loans on our books at this point.
And so we're seeing a lot of these things work out.
I'm not sure if there's a real change in the inherent risk as much as there's a change in the market and appetite for actually taking on these assets that now have been written down at pretty heavy discounts right which on the flip side with the low rate environment one of the places you can go to find yields is on these projects that were stalled and failed in the past that have been written down.
So a lot of it is in the commercial real estate space.
Also prepayments being higher when you look at our net interest income when you look at the prepayments being higher it's very consistent with that same theme.
LLC Research Division</strong> And speaking of credit quality can you give us an update on the Bayview impairment? Where is it now? And how is it looking at this point? I think a basis on our balance sheet in Bayview is about 104 somewhere around 104 I guess.
And then there's been no change.
We don't -- we're not -- we don't have any great concern.
I think that the Bayview Asset Management seems to be doing fairly well in this environment.
And it's an environment where they have access to servicing portfolios maybe without some of the burdens that some of the banks have.
And they also have the ability to purchase assets and higher yields than you're getting out here in the low rate environment.
So they seem to be doing very well and fine no real change to anything there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question on the funding side of the balance sheet you may have touched on this and I apologize.
In your CD book that you have how does that reprice over the next 12 months? I think there's about $5.5 billion in that CD book that I think you just pointed out.
It's about 90 basis points.
That's what it's costing you.
How does that reprice going forward over the next 12 to 18 months? I look at the yields as I looked at them some time ago but they seem to be down a couple of basis points in a very consistent flip [ph] every quarter.
Let me just take a quick look at that again but...
LLC Research Division</strong> There's no high rate -- so as you're looking for it there's no real high rate falling down near that 3% or something that might reprice in the third [ph] quarter or anything? No.
No there's not -- oh go ahead Don.
There are still some brokered CDs on the books from Wilmington and there wasn't a lot of runoff this quarter but there'll be a little more in the next 2 quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don were they fairly -- are they priced fairly highly compared to the rest of the book? Yes but not outrageous.
Think about it this way Gerard.
You say Provident right? LLC Research Division</strong> Wilmington.
Wilmington Provident so you mark those right? So a year ago for one I think some of them are Provident so that's 3 years ago.
So you can look maybe to the Provident to see there's something.
But as someone just pointed out to me I mean most of -- the majority of our time deposits are within inside a year so I think you're going to continue to see the same sort of steady trend that you've seen over the last several quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one final question on this on the funding cost what environment -- considering that the Fed has pointed -- has stressed that this rate environment's going to stay this way through the end of '14 with the low end of the -- the short end of the curve close to 0 or at 0 and the long end of the curve currently is about 1.49%.
Deposits for you and your peers are coming in quite strongly.
What kind of environment do you need to see where the deposit costs actually go down to 5 or 10 basis points considering money market mutual funds today are paying one and 2 basis points? Do you guys -- can you envision an environment where the deposit costs for now accounts and savings accounts can fall to 2 or 3 basis points? Never say never but I hadn't really thought about it.
I mean even so think about it this way.
It doesn't give us that much boost.
I think on now accounts we're at 7 basis points.
In savings we're at 18 basis points at the end of quarter.
So I guess my answer is it seems like we're almost there now.
This concludes the Q&amp;A session for today's call.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Don MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any items on the call or the news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes your call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lynn and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Don MacLeod you may begin your conference.
Thank you Lynn and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those made on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
The third quarter was a busy one for us including our announcement of the acquisition of Hudson City Bancorp near the end of August as well as M&amp;T's final exit from the TARP program through the U.S.
Treasury's sales of its investment in M&amp;T through a public offering.
As we noted in the press release this year's third quarter financial results reflect good progress from across most of our core banking businesses as well as a very favorable mortgage banking environment.
I'll begin by reviewing some of the highlights after which Don and I will take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $2.17 in the third quarter of 2012 up 27% from $1.71 earned in this year's second quarter and up 64% from the $1.32 earned in the third quarter of 2011.
Net income for the third quarter was $293 million up 26% from $233 million in the linked quarter and up 60% from $183 million in last year's third quarter.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisition activity.
There were no merger-related expenses in the recent quarter's results.
However M&amp;T's results for the second quarter of 2012 included related -- merger-related expenses of $4 million after tax or $0.03 per common share related to the Wilmington Trust merger.
GAAP earnings in last year's third quarter included $16 million of after-tax merger-related expenses or $13 per share also related to the Wilmington deal.
After-tax expenses from the amortization of intangible assets was $9 million or $0.07 per common share in the recent quarter down from $10 million or $0.08 per share in this year's second quarter.
After-tax amortization expense was $11 million or $0.08 per common share in last year's third quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the third quarter of 2012 which as noted excludes the merger-related expenses and the intangible amortization was $302 million up 22% from -- up 22% from $247 million in the linked quarter and up 44% from $210 million in last year's third quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $2.24 for the recent quarter up 23% from $1.82 in the linked quarter and up 46% from $1.53 in the year-ago quarter.
Net operating income expressed as an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.56% and 21.53% respectively for the recent quarter improved from 1.30% and 18.54% in the second quarter of 2012.
As usual in accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $669 million in the third quarter of 2012 up $14 million from $655 million in the prior quarter.
The net interest margin expanded during the third quarter increasing to 3.77% up from 3.74% in the second quarter.
Major items impacting the comparison in the linked quarter were as follows: An estimated 5 basis points of the improvement is attributable to a lower level of excess liquidity held at the Federal Reserve.
Average funds on deposits with the Fed declined to $151 million in the third quarter down from $1.17 billion in the recent quarter.
One additional day in the third quarter as compared with the second quarter reduced the margin by about 1 basis point.
And what I would characterize as core margin compression was about 1 basis point as lower yields on loans were largely offset by the benefit from a lower level of long-term borrowings which were placed by low-cost core deposits.
This is consistent with our expectation of in and around 2 basis points of continued underlying margin compression per quarter.
Interest income recorded on acquired loans was little change from the amount in the linked quarter.
I'll discuss our outlook for the margin towards the end of my comments.
As for the balance sheet average loan growth for the third quarter continued to be relatively strong increasing by approximately $1.6 billion to $63.5 billion or an annualized 10% growth as compared with the prior quarter.
On that same basis compared with 2012 second quarter changes in average loans by category were as follows: Commercial &amp; industrial loans grew by $400 million or an annualized 10%.
This included a seasonal decline in auto floor plan loans of about 5% annualized which was more than offset by 12% annualized growth in other C&amp;I categories.
Commercial real estate loans grew by $257 million or an annualized 4% growth.
Residential real estate loans were up by about $1.1 billion reflecting the tail end of our program to retain conforming mortgage loan originations to hold on on our balance sheet.
We resumed our normal policy of selling the bulk of our conforming loan production at the beginning of September.
Consumer loans declined an annualized 4% reflecting the same factors we've been discussing for some time now our reduced appetite for Indirect Auto loans given the low absolute returns associated with them and our customers' reduced appetite for home equity loan.
On an end-of-period basis loans grew by $1.3 billion or an annualized 8% compared to the linked quarter.
Included in this figure was $7 million of annualized growth in C&amp;I loans and the $1 billion increase in loans retained for -- in mortgage loans retained for investment.
Average investment securities continue to decline as our appetite for purchasing securities remains very low based on extremely modest yields that are available.
Average core customer deposits which exclude foreign deposits and CDs over 250 were up an annualized 9% as compared with the linked quarter.
The Upstate and Western New York region continues to benefit from the disruptions to customers and businesses impacted by the HSBC branch divestiture.
Average loans in that region were up an annualized 14% compared to the linked quarter.
Average commercial &amp; industrial loans in that region were up by $291 million.
And average CRE loans were up by $114 million.
And while modest at 2% annualized growth Upstate and Western New York was the only region with consumer loan growth.
Average core deposit growth in Upstate New York region slowed to an annualized 5% compared with the linked quarter.
And then core deposits -- sorry average core deposit growth was an annualized 5% growth compared to linked quarter and core deposits are up 13% compared to last year's third quarter.
Turning to net interest -- noninterest income noninterest income totaled $446 million in the quarter compared with $392 million in the prior quarter.
The recent quarter's results included $5 million of securities losses including other than temporary impairment charges related to our investment securities portfolio down from $17 million in the linked quarter.
Excluding those losses from both periods noninterest income was $451 million for the recent quarter up 10% from $408 million in the second quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues rose by $37 million to $107 million in the recent quarter compared with $70 million in the prior quarter.
Residential mortgage loans locked for sales to third parties more than doubled from $856 million in the second quarter to $1.8 billion in the third quarter.
Commercial mortgage loan activity also remained strong.
Fee income from deposit services provided was $114 million during the recent quarter compared to $111 million in the linked quarter.
Trust revenues were $116 million in the recent quarter compared with $122 million in the prior quarter.
Recall that last quarter's results benefited from seasonal tax preparation fees of about $4 million.
In addition to the decline in the seasonal tax-related fees fees from managing our proprietary funds declined by about $1 million as a result of the rate environment.
The remainder of the decline related to the timing of receivables.
So looking back over the past year we're pleased to note that trust and investment fees increased by 2% from last year's third quarter reflecting our ability to retain customers throughout the integration of the 2 institutions.
Turning to expenses operating expenses which excluded merger-related expenses and amortization of intangible assets were $602 million for the third quarter down from $604 million in the second quarter and $619 million in last year's third quarter.
Included in the operating expenses for the third quarter was a $3 million addition to the valuation allowance for capitalized mortgage servicing rights and the efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and the merger-related gains and expenses was 53.7% for the third quarter compared with 56.9% in the second quarter of 2012.
While I would note that expenses were very well controlled during the recent quarter the strong revenue growth trends were also a factor in the improvement in the efficiency ratio.
Let's turn to credit.
Credit continues to improve.
Nonaccrual loans decreased to 1.44% of total loans at the end of the third quarter down from 1.54% of total loans at the end of the previous quarter.
Other non-performing assets consisting of assets taken into foreclosure of defaulted loans were $112 million as of September 30 also down from $116 million as of June 30.
Net charge-offs for the third quarter were $42 million down from $52 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 26 basis points compared with 34 basis points in the linked quarter.
This figure averaged 31 basis points for the first 9 months of 2012.
The Provision for Credit Losses was $46 million in the third quarter compared with $60 million in the linked quarter and the provision exceeded charge-offs and as a result the allowance for credit losses increased to $921 million at the end of the third quarter reflecting continued growth in the loan portfolio.
While the dollar amount of loan loss allowance increased the ratio of allowance to credit losses to loans declined -- for credit losses to loans declined slightly to 1.44% compared to 1.46% at the end of the linked quarter.
Total loan-loss allowance as of September 30 was 5.5x annualized net charge-offs for the quarter.
We disclosed loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately from nonaccrual loans because they're deemed to be well secured and in the process of collection which is to say that there is a low risk of principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due were $309 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these $280 million or 91% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Loans 90 days past due were $275 million at the end of this year's second quarter of which 93% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
M&amp;T's estimated Tier 1 common capital ratio improved to 7.47% at the end of September up from 7.15% at the end of June.
This reflects higher capital from retained earnings partially offset by the larger end-of-quarter balance sheet.
Lastly I'd like to offer a few thoughts on our general outlook.
We expect the net interest margin to be fairly stable over the remainder of 2012 with the caveat that new inflows of temporary trust deposits could diminish the reported margin but not the net interest income.
The September year-to-date net interest margin of 3.73% is the same as we reported for the full year of 2011.
We continue to believe the figure for the full year of 2012 will be comparable.
That said we continue to expect in and around 2 basis points of underlying core margin compression as we move forward.
We'd expect to offer our outlook on the margin for 2013 on the January earnings call.
Beyond mortgage banking our lending pipeline remains healthy.
That said anecdotal evidence from customers is indicating that there may be some softening of demand as they await clarity regarding the election as well as tax and fiscal policy.
And it's difficult to offer an outlook on mortgage banking with any certainty.
With rates where they are we believe there will continue to be fairly healthy demand for refinancings for the next quarter or 2.
As I noted earlier we've begun selling the bulk of our conforming mortgage loan production again rather than to retain them for investment which should support mortgage banking revenues in the fourth quarter.
We were pleased to see further improvement of our efficiency ratio part of which was due to strong revenues.
We have achieved the bulk of our expected expense savings from the Wilmington Trust merger with the possibility for some additional lingering benefits over the near-term.
Our outlook for credit is unchanged.
We expect continued improvement in nonaccrual and criticized loan portfolios with charge-offs remaining relatively stable.
Lastly we continue to move forward with the Hudson City acquisition.
The regulatory applications have been filed with the Fed and the New York State Banking regulators.
And you probably saw the draft of our S-4 registration statement and merger proxy were filed on Monday.
We continue to expect the closing of the merger in the second quarter.
That said we're still very early in the process and we will keep you informed as we progress.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
I appreciate your patience this morning.
We'll now open up the call to questions before which Lynn will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I apologize René if I missed this in your prepared remarks but could you give us a sense if in that mortgage banking number if there were any unusually large MSR hedge gains? No.
No no because we don't hedge our MSRs actually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's 100% production I guess is the best way to think about it.
And in terms of the -- you mentioned that the origination level doubled in the resi mortgage.
That had nothing to do with you choosing to sell off more of your production because you mentioned that that happened late in September.
That was all just volume? No.
So let me kind of give you those numbers again and I'll give you some clarity there.
So we did -- we locked $856 million in the second quarter and it was $1.8 billion in the third quarter.
Of that there was about $500 million of that increase came from our decision right around the beginning of September to lock those for sale instead of our portfolio.
So you'd still have a pretty big gain but there's about $500 million worth of mortgages that we've kind of flipped and are planning to sell.
So that gave you a bit of a boost.
So when you look at the $37 million increase on a linked-quarter basis I would guess that my rough estimate is that $15 million sort of came from that -- $15 million of the $37 million came from that decision.
And we still had -- I think we still locked maybe $350 million in the quarter for our portfolio which next quarter we would not do.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And with regard to the cash balance levels is this a more normal rate of cash balances for you going forward? Meaning we don't expect any fluctuations higher even if those trust deposits are coming in in the fourth quarter? No.
Actually you don't -- it's -- you can expect continued fluctuation because of the nature of the business which really came to us with Wilmington Trust.
And the swings can be fairly large but the earnings rate on those amounts are pretty low.
So if I were -- my personal model I tend to take a look at those and put a very very very low earnings rate on them because they move the printed margin but they really don't do much to the net interest income.
So if you missed that it can be a little confusing sometimes.
But that'll continue to fluctuate.
It's very hard to predict because as we get business related to our trustee work around securitizations and those types of things oftentimes we get paid in balances as opposed to fees.
And that trend is relatively high I guess based on -- relative to past experience so...
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on Erika's question about mortgage banking.
So you said you all locked $1.8 billion in the third quarter and that without the portfolio activity it could have been $350 million more.
Based on your pipelines headed into the fourth quarter is your expectation that you could do over $2 billion of volume? Or is there any shift in pipelines that gives you a different sense? Well we have what we call our mortgage pipeline which is all the applications that we receive during the quarter minus anything that's been withdrawn or anything that's actually already closed and that's still on an uptick.
So in the first quarter it was $1.4 billion; in the second quarter it was $1.8 billion; and at the end of the third quarter it was $1.3 billion -- sorry $2.3 billion.
So it still has a bit of an upward trend associated with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it looks like you'll be doing more volume and selling even more of that volume in the last quarter.
And is your expectation that margins will be relatively consistent third quarter to fourth or any view there? I think when you normalize for the amount like it took a while for the HARP programs to kind of catch up and normalize at their levels so you saw margins rising but I think that's probably right that until that program dissipates over time I think you'll see the margins just kind of remain where they were I would guess.
So I don't think the fourth quarter's really all that hard to predict.
I think the bigger question is how long does this last? And then we're kind of thinking about it as at the end of the day it allows us to build our capital.
But we're not thinking that this trend can continue forever.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the resi loan front I guess I was a little surprised by the amount of growth.
I thought you all had scaled back the portfolio and activity earlier in the quarter than it sounds like you did.
But given that you have made those changes in September would your expectation be that from this level that both securities and resi mortgages that you don't see a lot of growth in either of those portfolios? Again the accounting has some effects that can get you a little confused right? So the $1.1 billion that you saw this quarter was all -- were loans that we locked in the second quarter.
So that means that the amounts the $350 million or so that we originated for our portfolio in the third quarter still has yet to roll on and that will come in the fourth quarter.
So you should still see some growth nothing like the same size that you saw this quarter but it takes about in a normal time it's about 45 days to go from lock to close.
And with the pipeline so full we've expanded our capacity sort of as much as we can but that 45 days might be a little longer.
Maybe it's 60 days right? So I think you'll see it continue to rise a little bit in the fourth quarter and then I would guess it should level off.
Okay? Making that offer is even on a normal basis there's a certain amount of nonconforming that we originate and contain prime jumbos bi-weeklies and that sort of thing.
And that's typically a couple hundred million a quarter.
Which sort of serves to sustain the portfolio.
It maybe compensates for normal runoff.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then the last question I'll hop out here.
You mentioned that the Wilmington cost saves are largely in the numbers at this point or there could be some lingering near-term benefits I think you said.
Could you just talk a little bit about what some of those opportunities might be or how material they could be? Yes.
Think about it this way we just -- last quarter I guess just completed our integration.
So some of the remaining impacts of that you're yet to sort of see.
So I think near term I wouldn't be surprised to see expenses controlled maybe even slightly down.
But then longer term even though there will still be some benefit that lingers into the next year as we begin to think about 2013 one of the things that we're thinking about is sort of our investments our investments in technology.
Obviously our investments in the network associated with the pending deal with Hudson.
So my sense is is that I feel pretty good about '13 meaning that some of that lingering benefit will help us to pay for investment.
It means our expenses will likely be relatively controlled in 2013 but not necessarily down right? So we're beginning to think about it.
I'll talk more about it in January but that's sort of kind of my thinking today.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering René if you can talk a little bit about that preparation for ACBK [ph] a little bit more.
And as that balance sheet comes on you gave us some color when the deal was announced about the expected kind of longer-term shrinkage of that portfolio.
I guess any updated thoughts with regards to how the M&amp;T balance sheet will change in advance of closing and then any differences in terms of how you're seeing the runoff or anticipating the runoff of the Hudson City book to be either better or worse especially given what we've seen in rates recently? Yes.
In short as of now it's really early but there's no change in what we're thinking about.
And as we begin to kind of go through our normal M&amp;T stuff I think as you look out some of the questions are difficult to answer about the size of the balance sheet.
But I think the thing to think about is we tend to focus less on balances and more on profitability.
So for example we get questions about will you continue the jumbo program and the answer is yes.
Would we do it differently? I don't know.
I mean it really depends on the profitability.
We're going to focus on using equity in the best way.
So I think it's hard to kind of comment on size but I think we're probably same places we were when we did the announcement just a month or so ago.
In terms of preparation on the people side I think everybody's had their introductions to date.
We've already begun our process of looking at the M&amp;T folks who might want to spend some time in New Jersey and we've been out there recruiting.
So it's nice to have a little lead time in anticipation of the sort of big distance between now and our anticipated second quarter close.
So everything is going well it's just not a lot of new stuff to really talk about.
And of course as time passes that'll change obviously.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
My second question René just about the trust income of business.
I know again this gets asked every quarter about the different machinations on how the business works from a revenue perspective but there were some benefits last quarter as well.
Can you just talk about just some of the subcomponents within trust income how they acted this quarter? And are you anticipating growth from here? Yes.
I would say -- I mean let's do it this way.
Let's -- let me just give you an advertisement first.
So I'm really kind of pleased a bit relieved in the sense that a year has gone by and we were able to get through what arguably is a pretty complex integration merging mutual funds getting people introduced to each other and then getting the 2 sales forces to work together.
And when you look year-over-year we had 2% growth in trust fees.
So we got the institutions combined by the third quarter of last year we've now had 2% growth.
What we've seen on the wealth side of the equation is that the couple years leading up to and then last year we had probably about as much new -- about as much runoff in business as we had new business.
In the first 9 months of this year that's crossed over and we've had more new business and -- than we've had runoff.
And quite frankly the runoff has slowed from what Wilmington experienced the last couple of years.
The stories are very good meaning that we have a number of cases where we had pre-existing M&amp;T clients that were more interested in doing business with us both on the wealth side or that felt that they were more inclined to do business with us simply because we had that wealth capability.
But there's work to do.
It's a little clunky internally and we've got our reporting and our process to get going and I think that's probably understandable given that whether you're directly involved in the integration or not some way shape or form whether you're explaining the integration to your customers or being directly involved everybody's a little bit distracted over the course of the year to try to make all that work.
So I think we're off to a good start.
The growth -- my anecdotal estimate is that more of the growth that we got came from the CCS business which has been as I've mentioned several times relatively diverse.
And so that has been still robust and strong and I'd say more of the growth the 2% growth is probably coming from that side of the shop.
But that's what we know more to come.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And last quick thing is just the losses in OCI and the losses in equity in Bayview any better sight just given where we've come in the environment and spreads and credit improvement on when we might start to see those 2 areas finally start to tail off? Sure sure Ken.
So a couple things.
I think if I go to our core non-agency portfolio that's about $500 million now it's down to about $500 million we saw early stage delinquencies on that portfolio come down in August.
And so that tends to bode well for what we might see in our securities book in our private-label mortgage-backed securities book we'll have to see.
Despite the stabling of housing prices over the last quarter or so we've always kind of maintained a down assumption and are kind of as we look out today we're thinking that maybe over the next year there's a slight upward trajectory in housing prices.
And that's part of the reason why you've seen the change in the size of that OTTI.
So I think it depends heavily on housing prices and it depends if we were to get a lag effect which was a positive effect on consumers and consumer delinquencies then that would bode pretty well for that securities book.
If it were to go the other way it would change but slightly more positive there.
And then no big change in Bayview other than the same underlying -- any underlying credit costs seem to be very stabilized.
And on the asset management front they seem to have more opportunities than not because they've been producing very strong returns.
Obviously absolute returns but also relative to what you can get out there in the market today with low rates.
So things seem to be good on those fronts.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you're continuing to see opportunities in Upstate New York and referenced some growth rates that were above the growth rate of the overall company.
How much longer do you think that benefit can continue to help you in terms of your C&amp;I loan growth and customer retention? Yes it's a good question.
Well I think the best way for me to do this is we've been talking about the growth for a number of quarters and the opportunities and I think a lot of my comments have been much more about the opportunities and what we're seeing as we see customers join M&amp;T.
And now what you've seen is you've actually seen those customers roll on and begin to get funded and so forth.
So you kind of -- you're seeing the result of the work we've done over the course of the year now.
I don't know.
I mean I think obviously again it can't last forever but the trend is sort of at a high point today.
We're still hearing very positive things particularly in our business banking area also you noted on the consumer side.
So maybe a couple more quarters I would hope.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the trust customer defection comment that you made earlier.
Could you remind us what your expectations were for the trust customer defections when you went into the Wilmington Trust acquisition and sort of where they've ended up being? Yes.
I mean I don't think I can do that in terms of numbers but I can tell you we were nervous because we never had done an acquisition or a merger where that type of business was engaged.
And I'd say out of the gate we were relatively pleased with the lack of any significant defection big-name defection.
But where we began to get an understanding was that as we looked back with the help of the Wilmington and their -- the Wilmington folks as to what happened when they went through their very difficult time on the commercial real estate side their defections had jumped up say 2 years ago 2 3 years ago and then again they were up again going into 2011.
And the only thing that was different about 2011 particularly the second half is that the M&amp;T customers began to get engaged.
So I don't think there was much of a -- we didn't see any increase in trends of runoff from when we joined versus before.
But I would guess anecdotally we would've anticipated that there would be some.
My sense is I'd have been happy if we were only down a bit in trust income year-over-year right? If you think about in terms of trying to protect that revenue base and that customer base yes we were up.
So that's the best I can do for you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just finally your commercial loan yields were pretty stable actually up a basis point quarter-over-quarter.
How much pressure are you seeing in the structure on the C&amp;I lending? We've heard anecdotally from a number -- from several other banks that their -- that customers are now looking to extend the maturities on their commercial lending.
And I guess I'm just curious as to how you feel about that and if you've seen any pressure in that regard.
No big thing.
In some cases yesterday I got an e-mail about something in Upstate New York where that was exactly the case somewhat aggressive pricing and looking to extend maturities.
But that is sort of the first I had heard about it from others.
I know down in Maryland where our loan growth has been a little bit slower particularly on the commercial real estate side the life companies have sort of come back into play along with the conduits actually slowly coming back into play as an alternative.
And that puts a little bit of pressure on pricing and therefore for us volume.
And then Pennsylvania anecdotally it's just that slow steady improvement in the economy.
And from time to time you hear a lot about the smaller institutions being aggressive.
This quarter I really didn't give a lot of commentary about that.
So when I look at our book I have got a -- we've got a very robust thing here that we can see all of the amounts that we originated and what the margins are.
Our margins have been up slightly each quarter very slightly and returns have held out pretty well.
So overall while I would expect the competition to be very aggressive it hasn't been too bad relative to what we've seen in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> René just quickly one of the things we don't talk about too often is the purchase accounting and the effect on spread and margin.
Obviously there's been a couple of companies this quarter that have taken a pretty big hit with some of their underlying assumptions there.
Just kind of remind us or kind of speak to how we should think about that on a go-forward basis.
Just obviously there's some timing differences relative to when you got Wilmington and so forth but just kind of think of how you guys are thinking about that or how we should think about that kind of going forward if whether you've made any changes recently or what the outlook is there.
No.
So remember so for us we've treated the acquired loans non-impaired and purchase impaired the same way.
So today I think you saw in our MD&amp;A we put a table in there which showed that the difference between -- on the acquired portfolio the difference between what the customers' code M&amp;T and what the carrying balance was is about $506 million.
Versus the old days it's funny accounting because the $506 million is basically not on your balance sheet right? So when we look at this quarter there's been no real change I mean minimal if any.
I think last quarter we had $90 million of benefit to total market from acquired loans and that didn't change much at all.
But as we kind of go forward the way the accounting works now is that in essence improvement in credit to some extent could come in and support your margin in the future if rates were to remain low prices for -- or particularly with Wilmington prices for land and commercial real estate the construction projects were to sort of revive itself you wouldn't see that come back and through the credit; you'd see it come through the margin.
So what we do is we just look every quarter we look at the entire book.
We run -- look at the cash flow estimates that we have over the life of those loans.
We run some screens to see if things are improving or getting worse or what it is.
And then from time to time meaning quarterly if we were to think things are getting better with those cash flows or being able to collect some of that $506 million which I think is about $470-million-something this quarter you'd see that benefit into the margin.
But there's no way to really kind of predict it right? Because as of today we think what we're basically saying is that we don't think the $477 million or $470 million is collectible.
That's how it works.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
And then just as a follow-up to that have you -- in terms of your initial assumption in terms of the estimated life of those loans has that changed at all? When you made ...
We don't change it from when we originally do the mark but obviously time is going by right? So on that Provident transaction it was in '09.
So those portfolios are getting smaller.
But we've not made any change in life estimates on the book.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears just quickly on the reserve and credit obviously credit quality is pretty exceptional at the company.
Historically you guys have been pretty conservative as it relates to both your reserve coverage as well as very modest reserve releases.
How should we kind of think about that at this point given where credit quality is and going into the Hudson City we're going to have a pretty significant mixed shift and again you kind of start at square one with the purchase accounting and then you've got the repopulation effect.
I'm just wondering basically how low could this -- could your coverage go effectively? I love that question.
I don't have a clue to the answer especially when it comes to Hudson City.
But let me start by -- look our allowance ratio is coming down.
I think that's a sign that our charge-offs have been improving at 1.44%.
For the first time in a long time our allowance ratio is actually the same 1.44% as our non-performing ratio right? So it's 1:1.
I think that my personal view is that more so than any big change in the inherent loss at our portfolio is the effect that delinquencies overall in the United States on real estate and delinquencies specifically on residential mortgages are really really high.
Still if you go back -- we did a chart the other day that went back to the first quarter of 1985 they were very high.
Why you're seeing improvement is because of the underlying rate environment which is really being stimulated by the Fed and the policies.
So we believe there really hasn't been a big change in the inherent risk in the portfolios but there's been this sort of environmental factor with rates that's actually helped us be able to sort of move some of our non-performing loans and for some of the performance on real estate to actually improve a bit.
So we still see -- we remain cautious as we kind of look at the underlying portfolio but obviously things are pretty stable.
When it comes to Hudson City the accounting rules are still relatively new so we're going through to make sure we understand exactly how we'll treat those loans.
These loans loans at a discount versus a premium may be different.
So we're working through that and it's hard for me to tell you right now what we'll do but obviously we'll try to be as clear as we possibly can regarding what we do there.
But it's a little early for us to kind of give you clarity on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> René can you tell us the loans the mortgages that you put into the residential mortgage portfolio what type of resi mortgages are those? Are they the 15- and 30-year fixed? Or are they adjustable? This -- there was a mix of 15 20 and 30.
I don't know if I have the history of what we put on.
We were starting last quarter we started moving.
And so what you saw come on this quarter we started moving much closer to the 15-year space and we were going to -- our anticipation was to keep moving more and more in that direction.
But then of course we stopped on September 1 simply because we were about to inherit a lot more mortgages from Hudson City.
Don do you know the fixed the variable split of what we put on for example this quarter? I don't -- Gerard I'll have to get back to you on that.
But I think it's mostly fixed because at the end of the day we were trying to close down our -- some of our -- or slow down our asset sensitivity.
So we didn't have a big demand for variable rate mortgages.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
The other question and you guys obviously do a very good job on managing your expenses as it showed this quarter and I'm curious you had such a great quarter in the mortgage revenue area mortgage reduction.
How do you compensate your originators? Because if it was a big variable comp I would've thought you would -- I think salaries and compensation went down in the quarter.
How do you guys compensate those folks? It's industry-standard.
I mean well it hasn't changed over time.
They get a percentage on based on what they originate and they do much better in environments like this than they do when things are -- when rates are going up.
But I think what you're seeing is I'll be just very frank I mean our expense savings underlying for the core bank and for Wilmington and the combined bank has been very very strong.
So you did see we do have higher mortgage banking expenses in that number.
Those costs are mostly variable.
One thing that offsets it in the salary line is that your capital -- you're using SAS 91 to capitalize your salary costs right? So the more that you originate the more of your salaries that you defer over towards the life of the loan.
So that's another thing that sort of dampens the effect there.
But cash expenses are higher.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then could you also give us a little further color on the auto? You guys have been doing the business for quite some time and you already identified that the returns really aren't as good as you'd like in that business which is affecting the balances of consumer loans.
Are you seeing underwriting standards that really are starting to make you nervous or is it just purely rate? You just don't like the rates? I mean I guess I'll answer it this way we could get a lot more volume at acceptable returns if we took a lot more risk.
But is that -- I don't know if there's been a change in the industry.
I would guess not.
I would guess that most people are -- most of our competitors or people offering this service in the banking industry are focused on the same group of very highly creditworthy customers.
That doesn't bode well for everybody in the U.S.
to sort of share in the benefit of low rates.
But having said that that's what probably puts most of the pressure on us is that we're kind of -- we remain in a relatively high quality space there.
But I don't think there's been any real structural change other than rate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do your guys who are on the front lines come back and tell you folks that boy we're seeing more competitors now in this space of PNC or a Huntington names that may have not have been as competitive 5 years ago or 4 years ago? I think that's just generally true more or less Gerard it's kind of funny.
Our guys have been around here a long time.
And so it tends to be stories about how well these guys are back in again and so-and-so left again right? I mean because one of the strengths of M&amp;T in this business is that whether things are good or things are bad we've never left right? So we maintain our focus.
And I think at times when people have started to get out of the business that's when we've been able to take share and we've done very well in the business.
Right now it's just the sort of the opposite side of the cycle.
Gerard just back to your other question if we did $800 million of locks $700 million were fixed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And finally and this might be more of a Board of Directors question but in your history in the last 20 or so years 30 years you split the stock a couple of times.
We've all seen the studies done by folks that look at stock splits and dividend increases generally being positive for stock prices over a long period of time.
Is that -- would that come up in discussion do you think at the board level if the stock breaks through $100 a share and moves possibly higher? My guess would be I doubt it.
I mean we're-- I'm not a board member but we tend to focus heavily on economics.
And unless someone could show us some value that's created for each of our shareholders in the form of cash I doubt that we'd focus on those types of things.
We have so much on our plate to do that I think those issues probably will go way to the back burner.
But I thank you for that question because it's a long -- the first time we've gotten that question in a very very long time.
Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So most of my questions have been answered but just I know you mentioned that it's hard for you to sort of predict growth and overall size of balance sheet post Hudson City but I guess and maybe this is just a question for you to remind us what your strategy was how you guys laid it out when you announced the deal.
But so if I look back and you guys generally have managed or maintained between securities and residential mortgages as a percent of running assets that 23% or 25% range and then obviously post Hudson City that shoots up to 40%.
And I know you're thinking about profitability and thinking about the jumbo business but just knowing all that you know now knowing the way you guys have run the bank for the last 20 years where do you think you could manage that level down to? A couple of things.
Let's just start with where we are today.
So I don't know that anything has really changed in our appetite for discretionary assets.
So if I look internally through the first 9 months at our plans we are about $1.7 billion over in residential mortgages than what we thought when we built our plan.
We're $1.7 billion under in securities right? So we kind of look at those fungibles.
So I would always look at the existing book right now as the difference between the -- I'd add resis and securities.
And you'd see that some of that change is just muted because of substitution.
Then as we go forward we did say we'd open up with the balance sheet I think at $27 billion of resi mortgages.
And that over the course maybe 18 months later that would be somewhere tapered down into the low 20s.
I think our -- remember at the time you're getting familiar with an institution what you're trying to do there is manage mostly risk right? And then you've got to kind of get in and get comfortable with it.
There's a portion of that business that I would guess also will serve to be -- to flip over to originate and sell like we do today.
But there's also a couple of new -- or a couple of products that are probably -- that are new to M&amp;T but that are very very appropriate for that footprint around the jumbo mortgages right? And our intention is to continue those businesses and to spend our time trying to understand the profitability and the profitability of those will dictate the size.
So I don't take away my comments that we'll-- 18 months after the acquisition we'll have some $20 billion and more in resi mortgages.
I don't know that I would treat all those as discretionary assets.
We'll have to kind of think about how that mix breaks out right? But that's how we think about it.
And if it changes we'll tell you but we're learning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And just what was the amortization speed of your own residential mortgage portfolio this quarter? It's been rising and it kind of moved up pretty quickly past 15%.
I don't remember exactly what the number was but it was -- it moved past 15% this quarter I believe.
So maybe in the high teens.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's way -- I mean because I think Hudson City's was running at like 27 or something.
So it's...
Yes I think it was 22 20 yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're lower than Hudson okay okay.
And then just on the -- and I think I can probably infer from your comment but when you were talking about Wilmington Trust and trust revenues up 2% year-over-year and kind of giving your ad or whatever you said it was did that 2% that you guys posted is that better than what you expected in line with what you expected or a little bit light having gone in when you first went into the budgetary process? My guess is it was better than I expected less than the Wilmington Trust team expected.
I mean they were pretty optimistic they're still very optimistic and doing deals you know that things don't always go really smoothly.
Things have just gone better than average so it's better than I expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> René just wanted your perspective on 2 kind of separate issues.
One is we've been hearing there's more regulatory scrutiny around bank reserve levels and I saw your reserve went up a little bit and that makes sense because you had good loan growth but any thoughts there? And the second piece was the CFPB is considering giving mortgage lenders protection from legal risk.
I'm wondering if you see any impact there.
The industry getting maybe more aggressive in extending credit at that point or maybe any specific points for M&amp;T there? No real outlook on the CFPB.
But on the allowance front look I think we've all learned a lot from the last crisis.
I think on hindsight many reserves were just too low.
And I think that the trend is that there's more emphasis on the banks to be very very focused on identifying the underlying inherent risk in their portfolio.
I think the stress testing actually probably adds to that right? People are expecting us to really understand and think about the risk where it could be lying within our portfolio.
The one big trend though is just more and more documentation for whatever your position is.
We're seeing that from every front whether it be the audit industry or various regulators that come to see us.
So that's what we're doing and we're trying to make sure that we explain what we see and be very very clear on it.
I know there has been a lot of chatter but I -- at the end of the day you got to stick to your process and make sure you've explained it well.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification on any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code (716) 842-5462.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us on the call today to discuss the fourth quarter as well as our full year results.
Let me begin by reiterating some of my comments from this morning's press release.
This past year was one of tremendous accomplishment at M&amp;T.
For the full year net income and earnings per share reached a new high exceeding those earned in 2006 the last full year prior to the financial crisis.
We successfully completed the integration of Wilmington -- of the Wilmington Trust merger and took the final step -- final major step in the integration process by completing the conversion of the trust systems and operations into a single platform.
Retention of the Wilmington Trust customer base has exceeded our expectations.
We completed our exit from the TARP program last August by agreeing to amend the terms of that instrument and assisting in its sale by the United States Treasury through a public offering.
We were able to capitalize on the disruption from HSBC's decision to exit upstate New York markets and as a result increased our sale of customer and business relationships in those markets.
We saw continued improvement in credit trends with net charge-offs for the year down 30% to 30 basis points of average loans.
We continue to build our capital ratios through earnings retention with the tangible common equity ratio increasing 80 basis points from the end of 2011 yet our return to shareholders improved.
And lastly we entered into an agreement to purchase Hudson City Bancorp subject to the approval of the regulators and the shareholders of both companies.
All of these accomplishments were attributable to the extraordinary efforts of our dedicated employees this past year.
Turning to the numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $2.16 in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with $2.17 earned in the previous quarter.
Net income for the recent quarter was $296 million up from $293 million in the linked quarter.
M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when incurred.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $8 million or $0.07 per common share in the recent quarter compared with $9 million in the third quarter also amounting to $0.07 per share.
There were no merger-related expenses in either of the past 2 quarters.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $2.23 for the recent quarter compared with $2.24 for the linked quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the fourth quarter which excludes the amortization expense I mentioned was $305 million up from $302 million in the linked quarter.
Net operating income expressed as an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.56% and 20.46% respectively for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with 1.56% and 21.53% in the recent quarter.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and income statement.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $674 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 up from $669 million in the linked quarter.
The net interest margin contracted to 3.74% during the fourth quarter down 3 basis points from 3.77% in the third quarter.
For the most part the reduction in margin as compared with the third quarter came as a result of what I'd call core margin pressure -- core margin compression as pressure on the loan yields which declined 6 basis points was partially offset by a lower cost of funds.
The items that usually have an impact on the linked quarter margin comparison such as prepayment penalties noninterest -- interest on nonaccrual loans were consistent with the third quarter.
Interest income from acquired loans was $78 million in the fourth quarter down from $87 million in the prior quarter.
However the average balance of acquired loans declined to $6 million -- excuse me $6 billion in the fourth quarter from $6.8 billion in the third quarter thus the yield on the acquired loan portfolio was little changed from the third quarter.
In general the cash flows being realized from our acquired loan portfolios continue to outpace the initial expectations that we had at the time of the Wilmington Trust and Provident acquisitions.
I'll discuss our outlook for the margin balances and net interest income in a few moments.
As for the balance sheet we saw robust growth in loans during the fourth quarter not unlike last year's fourth quarter.
Average loans increased by approximately $1.6 billion or an annualized 10% to $65 billion from $63.4 billion in the third quarter.
On that same basis compared with 2012's third quarter changes in average loan balances by category were as follows: commercial and industrial loans grew by an annualized 12%.
Within that category loans to finance auto dealer inventory grew by $137 million while all other C&amp;I loans increased by $354 million an annualized 10% increase.
Commercial real estate loans grew at an annualized 5%.
The residential real estate loans grew by $790 million partially as the result of a $447 million increase in our pipeline of mortgages held for sale.
In addition the remainder of loans that we locked to retain for our portfolio in the third quarter were funded and came on to the balance sheet in the fourth quarter.
Consumer loans declined an annualized 2% driven by lower level levels of indirect auto and home equity loans partially offset by growth in other consumer loans.
On an end of period basis loan growth was quite a bit stronger.
Total loans at the end of 2012 increased by some $2.5 billion to $66.6 billion or 15% annualized from September 30.
Thus we enter 2013 with loans already more than $1.5 billion higher than 2012's fourth quarter average.
Average core customer deposits which exclude foreign deposits and CDs over $250 000 matched the performance on the loans side increasing in the fourth quarter by approximately $1.6 billion or an annualized 11% from the third quarter.
Noninterest income totaled $453 million in the fourth quarter compared with $446 million in the prior quarter.
The recent quarter's results included $14 million of net other-than-temporary impairment charges related to our investment securities portfolio up from $5 million in the linked quarter.
Excluding those losses from both periods noninterest income was $468 million for the recent quarter up 4% from $451 million in the third quarter and up 10% from last year's fourth quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues rose to $117 million in the recent quarter compared with $107 million in the prior quarter.
Within that category residential mortgage banking revenues grew $96 million in the quarter up from -- grew to $96 million in the fourth quarter up from $82 million in the linked quarter while commercial mortgage banking revenues declined compared with the prior quarter reflecting lower volumes from what was a very strong third quarter.
Service -- deposit service charges were $112 million in the recent quarter compared with $114 million in the prior quarter.
Substantially all of the $2 million decline related to M&amp;T's decision to waive fees for customers who faced challenges arising from Hurricane Sandy.
Turning to expenses.
Operating expenses excluding the amortization of intangible assets were $612 million for the fourth quarter up from $602 million in the prior quarter.
Expenses in the quarter were elevated in part due to a branch operating loss relating to a customer who misappropriated funds.
This represents the majority of the quarter's increase.
In addition the bank experienced higher levels of professional service costs related to investments in our technology platform and our capital planning infrastructure as we moved towards becoming a CCAR bank for stress testing purposes.
Nevertheless the efficiency ratio which excludes security gains and losses as well as intangible amortization was 53.6% for the fourth quarter improved from 53.7% in the third quarter.
The strong revenue trends continue to be a contributing factor to the improved efficiency ratio.
Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter were $44 million -- excuse me one second -- let me now turn to credit.
Let me start with the credit quality we feel remains good for the most part.
We did see an uptick in nonaccrual loans.
Nonaccrual loans increased to $1.01 billion or 1.52% of loans at the end of 2012 from $925 million or 1.44% of loans at the end of the previous quarter.
The majority of the change came as a result of the transfer to nonaccrual status of $64 million of loans to a long-time M&amp;T customer that are fully secured by residential real estate.
The loan shows up in our regulatory filings as a residential mortgage loan.
It is well-collateralized.
And as a result in our view no specific reserve was warranted.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken into foreclosure of defaulted loans were $104 million as of December 31 down from $112 million as of September 30.
And we expect to report a slight decline in our level of classified assets when we file the 10-K next month.
Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter were $44 million little changed from $42 million in the linked quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 27 basis points compared with 26 basis points in the linked quarter but better than the full year net charge-off ratio of 30 basis points.
The provision for credit losses was $49 million for the fourth quarter compared with $46 million in the linked quarter.
That provision exceeded net charge-offs by $5 million.
And as a result the allowance for loan losses increased to $926 million as of the end of 2012.
The addition of the -- to the allowance comes largely in response to the strong loan growth we experienced in the fourth quarter.
The ratio of allowance for credit losses to total loans was 1.39% compared with 1.44% in the linked quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of the year-end 2012 was 5x net charge-offs for the past year.
As you know we disclose loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately from nonaccrual loans because they're deemed to be well-secured in the process of collection which is to say there is low risk of a principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $358 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans $316 million or 88% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Those figures were $309 million and $280 million respectively at the end of September.
M&amp;T's estimated Tier 1 common capital ratio was 5.75% at the end of 2012 an improvement of 71 basis points from the end of 2011.
Last week we submitted our capital plan to the regulators as required under the terms of the 2013 Capital Plan Review.
As with the other participants we expect to receive comments by the end of the first quarter.
Let me just make one correction.
So our Tier 1 common capital ratio is 5.57% -- excuse me 7.57% at the end of 2012.
As far as Capital Plan goes in our minds M&amp;T's main capital action for 2013 will be the Hudson City transaction.
In addition we remain focused on building our capital ratios to the new regulatory standards including Basel III.
So 6 months ago we promised to provide you a better estimate of where our capital ratios would come out under Basel III in part hoping that we'd see more clarity around the proposed rules.
However the body of rules for Basel III remain a work in progress for the regulators.
And by our nature we remain cautious about offering a pro forma figure.
That said we think that the projections made by the investment community that show our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III being some 75 to 100 basis points lower than under Basel I are not unreasonable given the current interest rate outlook.
Should this be the case it would suggest that pro forma for Hudson City we're on track to exceed the 7% Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III this year.
Before we turn to the outlook I'd like to take a minute to cover the full year results for 2012.
Diluted earnings per common share were $7.54 an increase of 19%.
Net income was $1 billion -- $1.03 billion which represents a 20% year-over-year increase.
GAAP basis net income expressed as a rate of return on average assets and average common equity was 1.29% and 10.96% respectively improved from 1.16% and 9.67% in 2011.
Included in GAAP earnings were after-tax merger-related expenses from the Wilmington Trust acquisition of $6 million or 0.05 -- or $0.05 per common share compared with net after-tax merger-related gain of $13 million or $0.10 per common share in the prior year.
Also included in GAAP earnings for the past year were after-tax expenses from the amortization of intangible assets amounting to $37 million or $0.29 per common share compared to $38 million or $0.30 per share in 2011.
Net operating income which excludes those items that I just mentioned was $1.07 billion an increase of 21% from the prior year.
Diluted net operating income per share was $7.88 an increase of 20% from 2011.
The rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders’ equity was 1.40% and 19.42% respectively.
Turning to our outlook.
I'd like to offer a few general thoughts on where we think things are headed for 2013.
Excluding any impact from the Hudson City merger our outlook for net interest margin is consistent with our prior comments which is to say that we'd expect in the neighborhood of 3 basis points of underlying margin pressure per quarter over the course of 2013.
Our most recent internal projections may -- projections indicate that the Hudson City transaction should have a small negative impact on our net interest margin for the year.
That said the first full quarter following the merger could be somewhat noisy as we work to restructure the Hudson City balance sheet.
For legacy M&amp;T we're looking for mid-single-digit growth and earnings assets with loan growth offset by a modest decline in securities.
Fee income should remain strong going into 2013 until we begin to see softening in the mortgage refinance area.
Total operating expense excluding Hudson City should be well controlled in 2013.
And we expect stable to slightly lower charge-offs in 2013 from the levels that we saw in 2012 which are already below what we consider to be our long-term loss rate.
I'll remind you that M&amp;T's first quarter results have tended to be seasonally low reflecting fewer days which affects revenue and the higher salaries and benefits expense from the accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense as well as seasonally high FICA unemployment insurance and the 401(k) match.
We'd note that most of the estimated $120 million of Hudson City merger-related expenses will come into play in 2013.
We continue to target cost savings from the merger to approximate 24% of Hudson City's premerger expense base.
This includes the impact from our hiring program but is separate from any reductions to their FDIC cost.
Those cost synergies arising from the merger should start to become evident in the second half of the year but won't be fully realized until well into 2014.
Overall we continue to expect the Hudson City merger to be accretive to both GAAP and net operating earnings and to tangible book value in the current year and be accretive to earnings in 2014 at a high single-digit rate.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
So we'll now open up the call to questions before which Jackie will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a margin-related question.
You had a 4 basis point decline in funding costs.
Are there still levers that you can pull to continue to bring that down or maybe talk about funding costs looking forward? Yes Kevin in terms of -- I think the answer in terms of pulling levers no.
I think -- but what you're seeing is if you go back over the quarters I mean there's still a little bit of migration of the time deposit portfolios.
And there's a -- from time to time some of our long-term borrowings are still rolling down.
So I would say that it shouldn't be 0 but the ability for us to kind of think about our strategy and change that number is pretty low.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the strength in the noninterest-bearing deposit growth are you seeing a change in deposit or behavior? Or is it all market share gains? You mentioned the disruption in your markets in the HSBC-related strength.
Can you characterize how much of that growth is market share gains versus maybe any change in deposit or behavior? Well let me do it this way.
A lot of -- in the lion's share of the growth trends we've seen in deposits over the past several I mean maybe 8 quarters right has been on the commercial side and that continues to be true.
But what -- looking into the numbers this quarter what I did notice is that we had pretty decent growth particularly in December in our consumer noninterest-bearing.
So I think it's a combination of both.
I think if you were to look at our deposit trends versus others the differential is probably market share.
But what I'm surprised at is that despite the improvements in the economy despite the fact that people are now clearly borrowing we still haven't seen a decline in that trend.
So I don't know what you can gain from that but that's probably the best I could do for you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
I think Hudson is still its own company.
But just conceptually as I think about interest rates since August the 5-year swap rate is about flat.
MBS yields rates are down.
Mortgage rates are down and jumbo is down more than conforming.
So is it fair to just kind of think big picture the capital accretion from Hudson City should be better but the earnings the net interest income and loan portfolio coming over from Hudson City should be a little worse? I guess the way I think about it Brian is that I'm looking at when we announced the transaction and prepayment fees we were looking at maybe those prepayment fees are slightly slower right still high but slightly lower.
But other than that we haven't really seen any material change in the balance sheet that differs from the projections we made at close maybe slightly little more loans.
Prepayments on securities have actually held up and may be exceeding what we thought.
So but overall the balance sheet looks a lot the same.
Are you thinking of just sort of the shape of the curve and then...
No I was actually thinking more along the lines of like when Capital One closed ING Direct the interest rates had come down from the time they announced the deal to the time they closed it.
The capital accretion ended up being better and they ended up with some negative accretable yields going forward turning.
So I guess maybe I'm over extrapolating but I was thinking maybe the same thing would happen here.
I think you're kind of directionally correct but I don't know that it's significant.
So each one of those things that you mentioned is probably true.
So you're saying basically the mark on the loan maybe the premium mark is a little less.
So that probably would be true given what's happened to rates.
The big question is what happens between now and the actual close? You don't really know Brian.
Makes sense.
And then the first quarter noisy or could be noisy comment can you just remind us what the main areas of noise we should be thinking about are? Yes.
So the way you think about is if you look at the higher levels of securities funded by structured debt on Hudson City's balance sheet we all know today that that's a negative trade if you look at the yield.
And a big chunk of that should go away when you mark the portfolio.
But having said that if you were to put that trade on today it would still be underwater right at that marked rate.
So until that position is unwound and as we'll think about how much time do we take to that it will driven by execution that actually would lower your margin.
So that's the way to think about it.
That trade isn't just necessarily a problem when it's not marked.
Once you mark it it's still an underwater trade.
The yield on securities will be lower than the borrowing cost.
And the securities wouldn't all be gone when the deal closes.
There could be some of the portfolio repositioning could happen post the deal close? Yes because we've got to figure that out.
Right? So -- and you don't know what day will you get approval so -- right? So the way I think about it is you'll get a lot done if we get approval at the beginning of a quarter and we'll be able to get a lot done during the course of the quarter.
But if it happens at the end of the quarter right you might see some distortion.
You might get a whole month of just sort of low margin stuff on your balance sheet that you don't intend to keep.
But economically -- yes economically it's not a big deal.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping maybe you could share some thoughts on how you're thinking about Hudson City's mortgage business in terms of intent to continue to originate those loans either for sale or for portfolio.
I mean my comments aren't going to be different from what we said in the past.
Our thinking maybe in this order is that one of the things that we will be able to bring to the table which we're sort of in a sense already getting started on by -- through our hiring process is adding an agency business to the branch network that's there which should be a positive.
And we think we can get that up and running pretty -- right pretty much out of the gate.
So that's the first thing that will be a change in the profile.
And then at the end of the day our view is that we're logically going to have some appetite for jumbos simply because if you look at the demographics particularly in New Jersey and then in where the branches are in Connecticut there's much more of an opportunity for jumbos there just because of the natural level of the home prices.
So think about the fact that most of our footprint other than Baltimore is pretty much all in -- the average home prices are way under.
So I think the question becomes how much of that we do? Now we don't tend to portfolio a lot.
So logically speaking that as we start out with $26 billion $28 billion loan portfolio that's going to decline.
But the dynamics of how we're thinking about it would include those components.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how does -- the CFPB recently provided guidance on qualified mortgages QM.
I'm curious if M&amp;T would ever originate or portfolio a non-QM mortgage and then sort of what your read on the guidance is and how you're thinking about that? I mean let me give you a very general comment.
In -- overall we didn't have too many problems with it.
We worry about any aspect of things that are price fixing because it tends to move the market.
So when you set -- when you lock in the fees for something you can't make a decision.
I think that -- and this is personally I think that the idea that to the extent that you originate a qualified mortgage outside of those parameters that you bear the risk kind of makes sense to me.
But other than that I mean I didn't think that we had any big problems overall.
Research Division</strong> And so does that mean that looking at the risk of any individual loan you all would not avoid a non-QM mortgage as long as it met the rest of your sort of underwriting criteria? We would have to think about it.
We'd have to think about -- the difficulty with that simple analysis is you got to understand your exposure in regard to the overall mortgage market in total.
Right? So I think we need time to think about exactly how that would affect us and we're thinking about it now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question you mentioned a little earlier that people are clearly borrowing.
Obviously you'll have very strong loan growth sort of across the board this quarter.
I'm just curious if there is any geography that was stronger or weaker than any other? Or sort of what maybe you attribute how much of it is market share versus not what you're seeing in terms of line utilization? Just any thoughts around the loan growth? Let me make general comments.
I mean so loan growth was strong.
There was clearly a flurry of activity towards the end.
And as you kind of look at those various types of things people were trying to do some were simply refinancing presumably while rates are still low.
Others we saw doing -- focusing on recaps.
There are a number of financing of acquisitions or even on the other side where we saw loans pay off people had done either partial sales of their company I think around the tax laws.
In our trust department we're away from loans now.
But I think the comment that I heard in December was that we had set up a record number of trusts in the month of December.
So clearly there's a lot of activity around sort of the changes that were coming at the end of the year the tax code and so forth.
But having said that we also saw growth in other areas manufacturers.
One of the things that we saw down in Pennsylvania was there seems to be some optimism associated with the aftereffects of Sandy where people who are making equipment and infrastructure down there are already getting orders for infrastructure i.e.
boilers those types of things.
The cost of -- we heard that cost of plywood and the cost of drywall is going up in the area which benefits a number of our customers in the Pennsylvania markets.
If you look at our loan growth by region we were up an annualized in upstate New York 5%.
We were up 11% in the sort of metro area which is Tarrytown think Hudson Valley Westchester New York City Philadelphia.
And then we were about flat in Pennsylvania.
We had actually pretty -- we had okay commercial growth but it was offset by the consumers.
And then what I found interesting is that even in places in upstate New York if you were to adjust for the fact that we had a couple of large pay down of balances that were related to either full sales of companies or partial sales of companies that the loan growth in places like Buffalo and Rochester were very -- still very robust in our middle market lending area.
So it was a ton of activity.
I can't suggest that it will stay at those levels going into the first quarter but it was clearly across the board different regions and also different reasons for the transaction.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's great.
And then could you give the mortgage banking pipeline heading into the first quarter? I'll get it for you.
I think it's about -- oh I'm sorry.
So let me give you that.
So last quarter we were just under $2.4 billion and that -- let me just describe the pipeline.
So that's everything that's come in to be locked and excluding things that have already locked.
So it's our true pipeline of business going into the quarter.
So $2.3 billion $2.4 billion.
At the end of last quarter it was $1.8 billion at the end of this.
So we saw -- we did see things slow down.
While the quarter was robust in mortgage December was slower than October and November.
Research Division</strong> And is that seasonal? Or are you seeing other factors in there? I can't tell.
I mean clearly there's some seasonal effect fewer days.
But it's still too early to tell.
I wouldn't suggest that that -- that December is -- December was really the exception I guess is what I would say.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on sort of the moving parts on the pro forma margin for Hudson City.
So you mentioned in your prepared remarks that the first full quarter will be a small negative impact.
And part of it is in terms of your answer to Brian's question is that there clearly have securities that have -- are earning a negative spread because of the wholesale funding.
But if I think about -- so if I think about the loans you're putting on because you're accreting capital upfront my suspicion is that that yield is lower than M&amp;T's legacy yield today.
And so I'm wondering on the deposit side if you just look at Hudson City's balance sheet clearly their deposit costs are higher than yours.
Is there a deposit accretable that we're not thinking about that helps sort of balance the potential negative on the loan side? No.
So let me -- so -- okay so take Brian's question and your question Erika.
You're right those 2 questions are perfect.
So remember that as we see the change in interest rates that Brian is talking about we've got to be concerned about the whole mark which would affect everything.
It would affect the wholesale borrowings and so forth.
And when we look at that in combination we don't see a big change.
But relative what -- so then if you go into the parts but relative to my thinking on where I think I may -- I gave a quote on the announcement of the deal about where we thought the loan yields would be I might have been like 360 or something.
Today probably on just the loan part that's probably higher today than we were thinking.
So overall I don't see much change in the overall balance sheet with the change of interest rates but the components have probably changed from where we sit today.
And we use that higher yield number on the loans in thinking about where we were as we go from here.
Again that could change and I don't know that you'd see much change in the overall mark because you'd got to count the liabilities as well.
But the loan numbers yields could change until we get to the close of the deal.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sure I should go back to the original presentation.
If I just look at the average balance sheet today how should we think about the mark on the deposit side? And I apologize if this is such an elementary question I just wanted to make sure that I'm not understating your margin for 2013.
Well I mean other than the structured borrowings I think you've got to go and look at the time deposits and those are -- I mean the time deposit rates.
I would just look at the average time deposit prices offered by us and others and then maybe look a little bit into that market and that's what we're going to take them down to.
We're going to use those current rates on time deposits and that will probably be the biggest thing that affects the deposit mark.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the mark is whatever the -- got it okay.
And on the statement that you made with regards to 24% expense savings on HCBK's premerger expense base excluding FDIC costs how -- what is the length of time it would take for M&amp;T to achieve that 24%? I know you've made comments in the past that the FDIC saving -- cost savings were immediate.
Yes.
It may take -- let me just do the FDIC first.
It will take a quarter lag before you come into M&amp;T's structure for the FDIC.
And then the other thing is some of the savings are going to come from your timing of your unwinding of that wholesale book right? So you won't get benefit until you do that.
But when that's done then you should start to see the full benefit from the FDIC.
I don't have it in front of me but I would suggest that we should be pretty much on a full run rate after the first 18 months which is towards the end of 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A quick question in terms of the capital plan or the stress test you did mention that your main capital action this year was going to be the Hudson City transaction.
But obviously Hudson improves your capital position.
Are you considering any other capital actions in your plan? Let me say this.
I mean I think generally no.
It's a pretty simple -- it's a very simple thing that we're trying to do we're keeping much of the things the same.
But to the extent that we could begin the process of turning over our hybrid capital we would start to consider that.
And remember for us it's less of an issue.
It's not something that we would have to do a lot of because unlike others other people are starting with big amounts of capital right on the top.
And so it's very important for them to kind of take those down quickly to sort of optimize the capital structure.
We're moving and improving our capital over time.
So there could be some of that activity if it were to get approved and if we were to choose to do it right? It depends a lot on rates.
And our thinking was that if rates on preferreds were low and we had the right inquiries we would want to consider beginning that process.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But that's something that you would apply for as a possibility but just you may or may not execute like the trep to pref [ph]? You have to apply for it somewhere to be able to do it.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No understood.
That's the reason I asked I wanted to make sure it was being applied for.
The other quick question I had just on with the I guess hiring commercial bankers.
Are you able to do any of the hiring ahead of the deal closing or are you -- have you started that process? Or is that something where you start taking I guess resumes after the deal closes? So -- yes it's a great question.
I mean we're well on our way.
One of the -- everything seems to be going on track with Hudson City and the integration but the thing that seems to be well ahead is the hiring.
So for example on the sales side we've identified and have as of this past Monday 49 people that will work in the new footprint.
And if you look at that 18 of them are internal people were internal folks who have agreed to go down there and are kind of familiar with our culture in M&amp;T and will work but primarily in New Jersey.
And then we've also hired another 31.
So if you look on the commercial side in terms of RMs we've already got 16 people on board.
We've got 23 business bankers on board.
We've got a number of mortgage originators on board already who are getting prepared to do that agency-type business that we talked about.
And then we also -- while we're a little slower on that part we also have a few people already on board who are part of the retail branch who will become part of the retail branch network.
So from a financial perspective some of that was in our December numbers some of that is already going to be in our fourth -- first quarter numbers.
And I feel pretty good about where we're headed there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on commercial real estate you had $1 billion of CRE growth on a point-to-point basis.
And I just wanted to ask you for a little bit more color on that any specific buckets that's coming from within? I know multifamily had been good but are you -- any signs that you're starting to now see that spread out in terms of demand and opportunity in CRE? Well it is interesting because our CRE growth has been pretty -- I don't have it in front of me but it's actually been -- it's been spread out already.
So for example on the CRE side upstate saw a 9% growth.
The reason I talked about from Westchester down to Philly grew 7%; Pennsylvania grew 2%.
So it's coming across the board.
The other thing I would say is again the other category we saw was there were a number some in real estate where people were bridging decisions over the end of the period.
So some of those loans were shorter term in nature all right? And then as we get into maybe the second quarter of next year some of that -- I would expect some of that to roll off.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then that would have shown up also in CRE.
I thought you were referring more to the commercial bucket.
It's both.
There are a lot of -- there was a lot of year-end decisions being made I guess is the simplest way for me to say it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And the second point I wanted to just follow up I understand your comments about core NIM compression and your thoughts about having mid-single-digit earning asset growth does that lend us out to believe that aside from day count that -- and before Hudson City that it's reasonable that you guys would still expect NII to be growing this year? Yes that's true.
You're thinking about that the right way yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then the last comment I want -- I just wanted to come back on your thoughts about mortgage banking.
The -- hearing you talk about a little bit of decline in the pipeline although it's staying quite strong.
What are you seeing underneath the surface now that you've returned back to the originate for sale and are retaining less? What do you see happening on the gain on sale side? What happened this quarter and what changes do you anticipate from that perspective with what we've seen in rates change so far? Yes.
Yes sure.
Good question.
Yes.
So I think this will be the dynamic right? So as you see things slow down we've built up a fair amount of capacity.
And so as you see things like we saw in December you're going to see lower gain on sale.
And so when I look overall quarter-over-quarter our gain on sale was up.
So if we were somewhere 225 -- I'm sorry 325 326 in the third quarter we were probably 20 basis points higher than that overall.
But if you were to go to December that came down quite a bit.
And much of that is us trying to sort of just manage the volume that we had in our capacity because we can't change it as fast.
So really the question on margin is going to come down to -- and it affects us both on our regular stuff and on HARP.
And the question will become with margin it's going to be -- have a lot to do with sort of the volume pickup.
I think out of the gate in January things actually look pretty good.
So I don't know if that helps.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that does help.
And I guess the second just the last corollary to that is if the total mortgage banking revenue were to start to tail off how quickly could you adjust to that capacity and infrastructure that you've built on the origination side from an expense perspective? I'll say this we got a long-tenured mortgage team they're pretty good at it.
IT is often -- that they need to go be able to go faster when we get into those situations but they're pretty good at what they do.
So the other thing I would suggest is that also there are a couple of parts of our business right? And so the labor-intensive one is really on the residential side.
We also have a commercial mortgage business which I think doesn't have as big of an infrastructure that's required because we're using the agencies and each loan is bigger.
But we also have a fairly large servicing portfolio right? And that tends to be much more stable.
So that stream should maintain relatively steady and we've got a lot of -- a pretty good sized workforce there.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> René I just want to follow up on your comment on the Sandy and the fee waiver.
I just want to make -- I understand that you indicated that you've since restarted that fees or they've still been -- they've still -- they're still in suspension? What I talked about was the impact that we had in place in the quarter during around the storm.
I don't think that that's still in place.
Those waivers were primarily almost entirely in October and November.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up to that have there been any changes just in general in terms of the pricing your various products? And then in terms of Hudson City coming on is there anything that we should think about in terms of either new products coming out or any meaningful pricing changes as we think about again the fee line item? So let me just -- so with regard to Hudson City that's a discussion after we end up getting the deal approved and we own -- and then the merger takes place because we just don't deal with the pricing of the other institution.
That's their job.
We focus on our portfolio.
I think the bigger question for us is as you look at some of the things that we're doing some of the investment that we've made at the end of the year has been around our deposit and deposit technology.
And I think we're very -- still very focused on looking at particularly our checking products and making sure that those are redesigned to give the customers a lot more choice.
And so it's not so much about what our overall fees will be but we intend to continue to make investments to give people more choice around their checking and their deposit products.
So you'll see changes.
I don't know that you can extrapolate that to anything on the fee income side other than the fact that we hope to have higher balances.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's what I was getting at.
Just in terms of product redesign the value proposition for the customer particularly with the new customer base coming on...
Yes.
I mean -- Yes okay.
So I mean the other thing I would add is we're doing a lot.
So when we talked about earlier on the opening of the call the technology investment and so forth I mean one of the things that we're spending a lot of money on is trying to improve the customer experience online.
And so we've been doing a lot of the initial work around Web banking upgrades and some of the platform there that will allow us down the road to begin to again offer a smoother experience for the customer.
And then as I mentioned before those products with choice we hope is received pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the capital side.
I think you indicated on the 7% twofold [ph] I think that's both in terms of your expectations for Tier 1 but more importantly I think you would going back at the time the deal that the expectation of the tangible equity was also greater than 7%.
Is that...
We haven't changed this as of yet anyway.
We said our thinking back then was that we would fall after the deal somewhere between 825.
I think we said 825 and 850.
So if you kind of extrapolate there and you also understand that you're generating a lot of capital post the transaction date.
It seems pretty logical that we'll be as we said on the call we'll be above where we need to be which is actually before the full implementation dates are in effect.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so finally again in terms of the CCAR process I'm assuming that the dividend remains very near and dear to M&amp;T and their shareholders and that that would also be likely part of the capital plan submission.
Particularly again as you mentioned that the capital accretion that's occurring with the deal and the ongoing improvement in terms of the company earnings and so forth.
Yes we think we've done a pretty nice job of one keeping the volatility low in our earnings over the years and that's allowed us to have a lot of consistency in our dividends.
And we don't expect to see any changes on that front as we sit here today.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups René if you could.
On the margin guidance of 3 basis points or so compression per quarter obviously that wouldn't incorporate any sort of benefit of redeeming the high-cost trust preferreds that you've got out there right? That would be as if those trust preferreds are still outstanding for all of 2013? Yes you got that right.
And again Brian I'm sure you know this but the way I think about it is what makes it interesting if you could do that is that it's kind of EPS-neutral right where rates are today.
And so while it may have some effect on your margin you just take the dividends and you're paying them below the line.
So as it comes to net income to common shareholders given where rates are the whole thing is relatively neutral.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you'd have a benefit on the margin but EPS-neutral? Right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I guess on the expenses for the quarter I know you mentioned that there was some sort of maybe onetime items and expenses related to the CCAR.
So if I look at that $193.6 million in the other cost of operations so should that be more like what the third quarter expense number was? You're thinking about that the right way.
I believe the item we mentioned on the misappropriation of funds by the customer is in there and our professional services were pretty high.
So typically what will happen is while we'll continue to maintain some level of investment you're going to see probably -- typically what's happened in the past is you see that line soften up a little bit in the first quarter and then of course we have a kind of a spike given the items we mentioned the salaries and benefits side.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the salaries and benefits for the fourth quarter is there any sort of sign-up bonus? Is there anything with the new hires that would be something we should adjust for? I mean in the context of how large that number is I don't know that it is anything to be really thinking about there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question on the acquired portfolio you talked about the net interest income declining.
The yields obviously the yields seem to be somewhat steady.
So we should be thinking about that continued pace of the runoff in the acquired balances thus the impact when you guys do report this in your Ks and Qs that that accretable yield number that you're putting in there should continue to decline but any of that would be the same as being a core reinvestment of your legacy loan portfolio since I'm still calculating that yield to be somewhat close to where your legacy loan portfolio loan yields are.
Yes I think that's the right way to think about it.
And to say it in a slightly different way what we've been seeing is that those loans are paying off right? And you see that and that's part why we gave you those balances.
You'll see them in the Q and the K.
But the loans have been paying off and that sort of results in sort of the cash flows being better but that normal pay down is kind of at a level yield.
And so from what we see today your description is probably a pretty good one.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Rene can we come back to that misappropriation of funds? How much was that in the other noninterest expense line item so that we don't include it on a go-forward basis? Well what we said was -- I think that -- I think the total other expenses were up $10 million or something like that.
So it's more than half of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is you gave us I think the gain on sale margins for the mortgage banking business for the quarter.
What was the dollar amount in the mortgage banking revenue line of the gain on sale? Ask me that again I'm not sure.
Say that again? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes.
The gain on sale revenue or gain on sale income that you generated in the quarter by selling mortgages how much of that -- in the 116 how much was it in the quarter? Well our total 116 117 I think was our number.
Our total number is about -- let me verify it and I'll give it to you.
$70 million.
Yes $70 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how would that compare to the prior quarter? 57 I think.
Is that 57? LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
The other question I have for you is on your securities portfolio what's the duration of the portfolio right now in terms of years? Right now I think the duration is 2.2.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally obviously all the banks will benefit should there be a parallel shift in the yield curve but that's not expected anytime soon.
If the long end of the curve the 10-year government bond yield starts to rise or continues to rise throughout 2012 at what point would it help mitigate your net interest margin pressure so that -- you mentioned about 3 basis points a quarter.
Have you done any sensitivity to say that if the 10-year reached x level that there wouldn't be any margin pressure? Yes we do routinely do that.
So let me just -- give me 2 seconds and I'll give you some specifics here.
So let's see.
So you're talking about a nonparallel interest rate shock and you're suggesting that the rates would go up on the long end? LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
That's correct.
Yes.
And so I mean it wouldn't take long.
I mean if you take a look at it and you look at it in terms of -- I think this is instantaneous but -- give me -- I'm not sure if I'm talking instantaneous.
But basically our numbers is if rates were to go up 100 basis points on the long end it's -- 3.66% is the sensitivity to our net interest income and I'm just drawing a blank.
I don't think that is a instantaneous shock.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would it be safe to say that if the long end of the curve went up gradually 30 40 basis points to somewhere in the low 2s 215 220 225 would that be enough just to mitigate then the margin pressure or it would have to go up even further? Well without using exact numbers that would have an effect.
They definitely have an effect.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It would definitely have a positive effect.
Yes.
Yes I mean think about it this way.
The other -- one of the big issues I think is that the yields on the securities are coming down especially to the extent that you've got to replace them right? So you see a slowing in that prepayment.
That's going to take pressure off of the primary reason why we see margin compression.
Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is a long call so I'm going to try and make this quick.
One housekeeping item.
You said that $64 million nonaccrual that was a resi mortgage loan? Well it's a long-term customer who we've had a relationship with where at times we've done business loans and so forth.
But the key is is that it's all collateralized by his real estate right? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that's multiple real estate residential real estate properties is that what you're saying then to...
Let me just -- it's a fair amount of real estate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's residential real estate not commercial? That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a big picture question.
It sort of has been like the M&amp;T story and you said for many years that you think about the GDP and you think M&amp;T's going to grow at the rate of GDP or maybe slightly more or that the banking industry in general should sort of -- that's a normalized growth rate for the industry.
If we look at what you guys put on in 2012 you grew 10% 11%.
Would you say that 2012 was a transitional year as it related to the economy and maybe the opportunities that you saw in taking share in Upstate New York? Or do you sort of see a shift a potential sort of opportunistic shift occurring for you guys as it relates to the rest of the economy in terms of future growth? Let me -- that's a good question.
So let me start.
I'm going to go in reverse Collyn.
I would say that we have seen -- it has been an opportunistic shift given where we were particularly through the crisis and the fact that the company stayed healthy.
And so it's presented us with a lot of opportunities and that's probably the first differentiating factor as to why our revenue growth has been higher than the general economy.
But I would argue that the only way that you can get into that position is if you take the view that you shouldn't be growing much faster than the economy.
So I think we still have that view and we'll try to do our best not to make too many mistakes.
But then the other thing and so we can get down into it I mean the Upstate New York markets was something that happened to us that was exceptional that impacted our loan growth.
The fact that one of the things I think people may be underestimate is that while our charge-offs have been really low and there's a view out there that "well how much lower can they get when the economy improves?" We tend to move like the economy so we just have a lower base.
But having said that what's different now is that a lot of the portfolios that we acquired are also seeing a benefit from that.
And you just don't -- based on the way the acquisition accounting works you see that in your net interest income right? So I think you've got it.
And we hope that those types of things -- good things will continue to happen to us.
But we think the path to get there has just sort of stick to our knitting and focus on integrating these transactions and not trying to push too hard or make things happen that aren't given to us by the general economy.
Your final question comes from the line of Stephen Mead with Anchor Capital.
LLC</strong> Just coming back to the dividend policy because of the submission of the Capital Plan and also the Hudson transaction is the dividend policy in a sense on hold or what? And have you stated some level of either growth in the dividend or payout of earnings? Well what we said and I guess the better term is that what we reminded people is that there's nearly never been a big change in the way we think about dividend payout cash payout.
For the longest time we've maintained you can go back a dividend payout ratio that was somewhere between 25% and 32%.
And our thinking was that as the company grew then the shareholders would be rewarded by growth in the dividend as well.
We kept it in that range because we wanted a lot of flexibility because we were very keenly aware that consistency is important and that from time to time there are disruptions definitely in banks in bank stocks in bank earnings.
So we felt that the easiest way to do that is to not have too high of a payout ratio.
When we saw the low point of the storm hit in 2009 that made our payout ratio increase and then we had the highest payout ratio.
But it was from maintaining it consistently right? So as you see in the last 2 quarters we've come down to about 32% roughly I think is what I saw the payout ratio the last 2 quarters.
So that's probably right about at the top end of the range of where we've been the last 20 years -- I can only vouch for the last 20 years.
So we don't really see any change in that nor are we aware of any reason why we would change our approach.
It also happens it's now seen to be consistent with the views of the regulatory community.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The other question just going back to the Hudson City transaction that deal was announced just before the September announcement by the Fed to purchase mortgage-backed securities.
Did you anticipate that in your negotiation of Hudson? And how has in a sense the Fed's policy to repurchase mortgage-backs how has it changed things in terms of your integration of Hudson? It hasn't.
I mean keep in mind that first of all it's not an agency portfolio.
And two what we tend to do is -- when we show up on day one it's an organization we don't know and I think -- first we think about credit then we think about credit and we think about credit again right? So we're deep into the loan files and looking at what we think the risk is of the portfolio.
And we would have had no foresight into what the Federal Reserve was going to do.
And as I look at it today I don't see it having much impact on our thinking.
I also think that if you look at what's happened to mortgage rates there's been really little influence from any of that to what's being passed through to the customer.
So hopefully that's hopeful but I don't think there's really...
LLC</strong> So you -- on the consumer side of the equation in terms of the margin compression that's occurring and the asset yields coming down faster than say cost of funds it's got to affect people's calculation of returns on equity just...
Yes you've got to separate the description of what I'm telling you is happening to our balance sheet which are loans we booked several years ago.
And any time we make a forward-looking decision whether it be on making a loan or definitely a transaction where we're going to buy a bank we're looking at forward curves right? And quite frankly we tend to price transactions by looking at forward curves and making sure that we can at least economically in our analysis pay a price that allows us to hedge those -- any changes in that forward curve right? So they're 2 sort of separate things.
The earlier description is of what's been rolling off our balance sheet from loans that were made in prior periods.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you tell us when -- what's the timing of when you think you might be able to close the Hudson deal? No there's no change.
I mean we would like to be able to do it by the second quarter I think.
So no change in what we said.
And what I can tell you is there's been really no change.
We're moving along in the regulatory process and one of the big steps in the process was submitting our Capital Plan on January 7.
So we've now done that.
And hopefully we'll get feedback and work with the Fed and other parties to get there by the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would that be toward do you think the front-end of the quarter or the latter part of the quarter or is it just too hard to say right now? They only let me talk to you at the end of the quarter.
That was our final question.
Now I'll turn the floor back up to Mr.
MacLeod for any closing comments.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
MacLeod please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everybody for participating in M&amp;T's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
Before I get into the discussion of M&amp;T's results for the first quarter let me say a few words about the announcement we made on Friday regarding the pending Hudson City merger.
I believe this is the first time since current management came to M&amp;T that we have had to publicly disclose a matter arising from a discussion with our regulators.
However in this case because it has an impact on the pending merger we are able to make a limited statement.
As you may recall we announced the merger in August of last year.
Apart from any issues specific to M&amp;T in terms of context the industry is already in a regulatory environment that seems clearly heightened in at least 2 relevant ways.
First if you look at recent merger activity in the banking sector the trend seems to be that it's taking notably longer to get regulatory approvals.
Said another way we don't take regulatory approval for granted.
Second industry as a whole is subject to a heightened regulatory environment and expectations including bank's -- the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering compliance programs.
So that's the context in which our Hudson City deal is taking place.
During the 7 months we've been working on the Hudson City merger we of course were also involved in our normal ongoing discussions with our regulators as part of the continuous supervisory process.
In addition we have been continuously working on scaling up and strengthening the overall risk management infrastructure of our growing bank along with planned improvements to the BSA/AML process.
We recently were made aware of the fact that certain deficiencies in our BSA/AML compliance program rose to a level of significance such that they would impact our ability to close the merger with Hudson City in the near term and that we would have to implement the plan for improvement and demonstrate its efficacy [ph] to satisfaction of M&amp;T management our board and the regulators prior to obtaining regulatory approvals for the merger.
Our ongoing investment includes bolstering internal staff and hiring an outside consultant to help us evaluate and improve our governance people processes controls and systems.
Fortunately these efforts are already under way.
Of course we then talked things over with Hudson City.
Both companies remain strongly committed to this merger as it is a highly beneficial transaction for each of us for all the reasons we've discussed previously.
So we mutually decided that we would proceed with our shareholder meetings on the merger and would also allow more time under our agreement an additional 5 months while M&amp;T works hard to resolve these issues.
We definitely appreciate the fact that Hudson City has been a totally supportive and steadfast partner in this.
So what are the regulatory issues? As you know we have obligations to keep supervisory information confidential.
So there is a limit to how expansive we can be today.
And we can only talk about what we know as we sit here today.
While we don't anticipate any other material issues cropping up as we get into this of course that can never be completely ruled out.
We have no reason to believe that the issues involve any wrongdoing or illegal conduct by anyone in M&amp;T work or any identifiable instances of actual money laundering activity using our bank.
Independent of the merger we are fully committed to resolving the BSA/AML compliance concerns and to carry out any further requirements our regulators may ask of us that we are not aware of today.
It is important to note that these things take time.
However we should be helped by who we are -- who and what we are.
Compared to some other institutions that have had these issues M&amp;T is relatively uncomplicated and locally focused business.
We don't have any significant international operations and don't have the kinds of diverse complex businesses that the larger money center banks are engaged in.
However we do have a lot to do as we take having strong compliance programs seriously.
With that said we are optimistic that we can make the progress that we need to make to satisfy our regulators and to obtain regulatory approval for this merger.
And I know both parties are as firm as ever that this is a deal worth getting done.
And that's why M&amp;T and Hudson City remain strongly committed to the deal and to do whatever we need to do to see it through.
Next I'd like to review the highlights from our first quarter results after which Don and I will take your questions.
The results were comparatively strong exceeding our internal projections and get us off to a good start for 2013.
Turning to the specific numbers diluted GAAP earnings per share were $1.98 in the first quarter of 2013 up 32% from $1.50 in the last -- in last year's first quarter.
When you compare this to the $2.16 in the first -- fourth quarter of 2012 the decline reflects lower mortgage banking revenues and seasonally higher equity compensation and benefits costs.
Net income for the recent quarter was $274 million up from $206 million in last year's first quarter.
Net income was $296 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Other than our normal seasonal uptick in compensation and benefits expense there was very little in the way of unusual items in our first quarter results.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effects of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions.
Included in GAAP earnings for the first quarter of 2013 where after-tax merger-related expenses related to the Hudson City acquisition amounting to $3 million after tax or $0.02 per common share.
There were no merger-related expenses in the fourth quarter of last year.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $8 million unchanged from the prior quarter and this amounted to $0.06 per common share in the recent quarter compared with $0.07 per share in the fourth quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the quarter which excludes those items was $285 million compared with $305 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $2.06 for the recent quarter up 30% from the first quarter of 2012.
The comparable figure was $2.23 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income expressed as an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity was 1.48% and 18.71% for the recent quarter up from 1.18% and 16.79% in the year ago quarter.
Said another way we increased our return on tangible common equity by nearly 200 basis points.
On an average tangible common equity base that is nearly $1 billion higher than the first quarter of 2012.
The comparable returns were at 1.56% and 20.46% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Next I'd like to cover a few highlights from the balance sheet and income statement.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $663 million for the first quarter of 2013 compared with $674 million in the linked quarter.
The decline compared with the linked quarter is entirely due to the lower day count.
In line with the guidance we offered in January of this year the net interest margin contracted by 3 basis points to 3.71% during the first quarter compared with 3.74% in the fourth quarter.
The reduction in margin is almost entirely due to what I characterize as core compression as yields on new loans both commercial and consumer is -- are somewhat lower than that on maturing loans.
This asset side pressure is being slightly offset by a lower cost of interest-bearing liabilities including lower rates on core deposits.
While the day count diminished the net interest income it added about 2 basis points to the reported margin and that was offset by a 2-basis-point decline as a result of the lower loan fees as compared with the fourth quarter.
As for the balance sheet loan growth for the first quarter was pretty much in line with our outlook as average loans increased by $840 million or an annualized 5% from the fourth quarter.
On that same basis compared with 2012's fourth quarter changes in average loans by category were as follows: commercial &amp; industrial loans grew by an annualized 8% commercial real estate loans grew by an annualized 9% residential real estate loans were up 2% while consumer loans declined an annualized 5%.
Upstate New York and our metro region which includes greater New York City Philadelphia and New Jersey areas experienced the strongest loan growth in both C&amp;I loans and commercial real estate loans while loans in the mid-Atlantic declined slightly.
On an end-of-period basis loans declined an annualized 4%.
A fair amount of the borrowing activity that we saw late in the fourth quarter was done by customers in anticipation of changes to tax rates and was comprised of short-term and bridge-type loans that paid down relatively quickly.
The average investment securities continued to decline as a result of the -- as a result of paydowns combined with our low appetite for reinvesting in the current rate environment.
Average core customer deposits which excludes deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman branch and CDs over $250 000 grew at an annualized 2%.
And during the quarter we were opportunistic and took advantage of the tighter spreads in the capital market by issuing $800 million of unsecured bank notes.
The $500 million fixed-rate tranche carried a 5-year fixed rate of 1.45% while the $300 million floating-rate tranche was issued at a 3-month LIBOR plus 30 basis points.
Turning to noninterest income.
Noninterest income totaled $433 million in the first quarter compared with $453 million in the prior quarter and improved by 15% from $378 million in the year ago quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues declined to $93 million in the recent quarter compared with $117 million in the prior quarter.
The decrease is primarily attributable to an approximate 50-basis-point decline in gain on sale margins while origination volumes were down about 6%.
These downward trends have become evident at the end of last year although recently while the competitive environment continues to exert pressure on margins volumes appeared to have stabilized.
Fee income from deposit services provided were $111 million during the recent quarter compared with $112 million in the linked quarter.
Trust and investment revenues were $122 million up from $117 million in the prior quarter.
But particularly encouraging was the strong sales activity we saw in the Wealth Advisory business which was the primary driver of the linked quarter increase.
Turning to expenses.
Operating expenses which exclude merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible assets were $618 million for the first quarter.
This compares to $612 million in the fourth quarter.
The seasonal increase in salaries and benefits that I mentioned earlier amounted to $37 million in the recent quarter and included items we typically note such as accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense for certain retirement-eligible employees higher FICA higher unemployment insurance expenses and expenses related to the 401(k) match.
As in prior years we would expect a decline in the second quarter as these items return to more normal levels.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible and amortization -- intangible amortization and any merger-related gains and expenses was 55.9% for the first quarter improved from 61.1% in last year's first quarter which also included the seasonal uptick in salaries and benefits expense.
That comparable figure was 53.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
So next let's turn to credits.
While credit quality remained strong we saw an increase in nonaccrual loans.
Contributing to the increase was a change in the method of identifying nonaccrual home equity loans and lines of credit to reflect the repayment performance of the related senior lien loans that is not owned by M&amp;T.
As discussed in our 10-K prior to this quarter we had limited knowledge about the repayment performance for such senior lien loans not owned by M&amp;T.
This change had not impacted -- this change had no impact on our allowance for loans.
Nonaccrual loans were 1.60% of total loans at the end of the first quarter compared with 1.52% of total loans at the end of the previous quarter but down from 1.75% of total loans at the end of the first quarter of last year.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken in foreclosure or defaulted loans continued to decline down from $104 million at the end of 2012 to $96 million as of March 31.
As has been the case for some time we expect to report a further decline in our level of criticized assets when we file our 10-Q next month.
Net charge-offs for the first quarter were $37 million down from $44 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 23 basis points down from 27 basis points in the linked quarter.
And the provision for credit losses was $37 million for the first quarter compared with $49 million in the linked quarter.
The provision very slightly exceeded net charge-offs.
And as a result the allowance for credit losses increased to $927 million as of the end of the first quarter.
The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total loans was 1.41% up from 1.39% at the end of the linked quarter.
Both the allowance-to-loan ratio and the nonaccrual loan ratio were impacted by the decline of end-of-period loans as compared with the prior quarter end.
The allowance -- the loan loss allowance as of March 31 was 6.2x the annualized net charge-offs for the quarter.
We disclose loans past due 90 days but still accruing separately from nonaccrual loans because they're deemed to be well secured and in the process of collection which is to say there's really low risk of principal loss.
Loans 90 days past due excluding acquired loans that have been marked to fair value at acquisition were $331 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these $312 million or 94% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Loans 90 days past due were $358 million at the end of 2012 of which 88% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
M&amp;T's estimated Tier 1 common capital ratio was 7.39% at the end of March up 36 basis points from 7.57% at the end of last year.
Lastly our outlook for legacy M&amp;T which excludes any impact from the Hudson City merger is little changed from what we discussed on the January earnings call.
The 3 basis points of margin compression and the mid-single-digit loan growth we saw in the first quarter were consistent with that guidance and still reflect what we expect for the remainder of 2013.
As I noted earlier based on what we're seeing today we're expecting a slow tapering off in the mortgage -- in mortgage banking revenues especially in comparison to the record levels in the fourth quarter.
Having said that we are encouraged by the recent extension of the HARP program through 2015.
On the expense front much of the lingering benefits from the Wilmington Trust cost savings as well as other initiatives are being redirected into infrastructure investments which of course includes our regulatory infrastructure.
And I'd also remind you that the high -- seasonally high salary and benefits expense in the first quarter will return to more normal levels in the second quarter.
And with respect to credit we expect stable to slightly lower charge-offs in 2013 from the levels that we saw in 2012 which are already below what we've considered to be our long-term loss rate.
The first quarter results further validate that expectation.
Now turning to the Hudson City transaction.
While we can't predict the timing we remain confident about the economics of the proposed transaction and do not expect material changes to the benefits of the transactions to our net operating earnings in the first full year following the close of the merger.
Of course all these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
We'll now open up the call to questions before which Jackie will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so just real quick on the BSA update.
I guess thanks for giving us some of that color.
I know you can't say much.
But as far as the expense base and I guess your guidance for expenses for the rest of the year you mentioned you hired a consultant.
It looks like on your website you had 5 new postings for some BSA-related employees.
I guess should we be thinking about an uptick into the second quarter kind of an expense base related to that BSA issue? Well I think Brian the first thing I'd say is we'll clearly make the investments we need to make and we'll sort of go full steam ahead.
I thought that's wonderful you already noticed the postings.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> [Indiscernible].
Let's see.
I think let's put it in context.
We have been making quite a bit of investment in our overall infrastructure for some time now.
Last year it was heavily focused on -- the year before focused on investments in our capital planning exercises which of course affect our technology but our people as well.
You saw that we hired Don Truslow as the Chief Risk Officer.
You saw that we hired Mahesh Sanakran about a year ago a little more than year ago around our forecasting process.
So we've been doing a lot on that front anyway.
And I guess the way to think about it is when you think about a over a course of a year we now spend $2.5 billion.
So we have a lot of resources to be able to sort of put to bear.
And I just think when you sort of think about earnings models I think it's kind of hard to find it all in that right because we're constantly making investments.
The other thing I'd point you to Brian is that if you look at -- because there's so much change we're constantly tweaking our business models.
If you look at just the first quarter results over last year our salaries and benefits are up $10 million $11 million $12 million.
But that's totally offset by FDIC expense coming down because credit quality is improving and we're issuing the funding and so forth right? So we're sort of constantly trying to manage the whole.
So if I had a line item that said compliance you'd see that go up and we'd make a lot of investment there but I'm not sure how to sort of put that in the context of the overall spending.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a quick follow-up on the expense side.
You pointed out the rest of the core cash expenses were down nicely sequentially from the fourth quarter.
And you mentioned the FDIC insurance.
So it looks like the assessment rate has come down.
So should we look at that assessment rate irrespective of the changes in the base should that continue to work down? It was actually as high as 17 basis points last year's first quarter.
It looks like it's closer to 10 11.
And I guess first question is that a good run rate to go forward? And then that other cost of operations which was $170 million was there any sort of credits or adjustments in there that should -- that we should adjust for? Or is that a good run rate going forward? So let me do it in reverse.
So overall I mean typically we tend to have a lower expense base and the first quarter tends to be little bit higher other than the salaries in the force [ph].
So that decline is kind of normal.
I don't know that it forecasts anything right? I think if you look at what happened last year from the first to the second it shouldn't be much different right? I just tends to be a little low.
Then your first part of your question was? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> The FDIC assessment base.
Oh yes the FDIC assessment.
I think look the formula is affected by a lot of things.
So as classified loans start to continue to come down you're going to get lower rates there.
As we begin -- early on a year or so ago we talked about changing some of the way we did business.
That's affected that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
The issuance of the $800 million has an impact.
And so to the extent that as we kind of go out and look at the liquidity coverage ratio and kind of move our -- in that direction you would logically see some offsets there.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Has there been any MOU or a cease-and-desist order or any of the formal written agreement established with the Fed regarding the BSA or the anti-money laundering issue? So let me answer.
I think so -- okay so let's step back for a bit.
So as you know the regulatory dialogue that we have by its nature is confidential as you said.
But it's also ongoing.
And as -- if you think about how it works as an industry matter formal enforcement actions are disclosed by the appropriate regulator.
While some informal regulatory matters such as MOUs and so forth are disclosed by the institution if they're material from a securities law perspective we didn't wait to receive any formal findings before disclosing this issue last Friday.
And as such we're not really aware of any sort of final outcomes or conclusions from the regulators.
We did this in part because of its impact on Hudson City and we tried to be as proactive as we possibly could.
Having said that we don't believe -- we do believe that we have the full understanding of what the issue is -- issues are to be addressed and so that's why we're running ahead and working on all of them.
And in the end I guess it will be up to other parties to sort of determine the appropriate sort of type of action that they take.
But as I said before we have never in our minds -- I think this is the first time that I can remember in my 21 years and as I talk to others where we've really ever discussed a regulatory matter in public and it's related to the transaction.
Research Division</strong> Got it René.
And just as a follow-up one of the local newspapers in Buffalo was commenting that some M&amp;T employees were leaving Hudson City branches that were in the process of preparing.
Can you confirm if that was true? And if it was when would these employees be actually going back into the Hudson City branches preparing for the closure? So I mean what I can say is that each of the institutions kind of have to focus on their own issues.
And until you get yourself close to a date and actually close to or having approval you've got to be very careful to make sure that each institution takes care of their own matters right? So that's what we'll do.
Hudson City will continue to focus on managing its balance sheet and trying to keep themselves safe and sound.
And on our front we're going to focus heavily on this issue and make sure that when the time comes we're ready.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I know you can't really pinpoint sort of the timing of the Hudson City acquisition.
And I forget the language in the release you all put out Friday said something like a significant delay or a sizable delay.
Is it reasonable from a modeling perspective to stick it in the fourth quarter? Or how should we sort of think about the rough timing? Thanks for your question Bob.
I mean the thing that we're going to focus on is keeping our regulatory issues as the most important sort of issue regardless of the transaction.
So I got to say that right at the outset right? And we have every intention that we're going to remediate the issues that are outstanding.
And we're going to do so quickly and we're going to do so in a manner that probably exceeds expectations.
And second point I'd make to sort of get to where you are is that we need -- to be able to complete the merger we'll need to obtain the regulatory approval which by their nature are pretty uncertain.
And -- but if we can do so we'll try to get them as soon as possible.
But that said we've not really provided you with a specific date at this time.
And I would say that from our perspective it really seems prudent for us really not to engage in that discussion till maybe later to -- towards the end of the summer when we've made progress on our own things.
And at that point if we have better clarity we'll do it.
But I think internally we're just going to focus on hitting this one out of the park.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think previously the sort of margin assumption around Hudson City was that it would be relatively neutral to M&amp;T's margin.
Is that true regardless of the timing of the close because the yields will sort of all be marked to market as long as the yield curve is more or less where it is today? Based on what I know today that sounds like it makes a lot of sense.
And how -- my understanding of how the 2 institutions are -- I mean particularly how that institution is hedged.
And that gets tweaked a little if you were to see changes in their balance sheet and if you were to see rates move a little.
But I think you're thinking about it the right way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Although changes in their balance sheet won't matter much because you're really only keeping the loan book.
I guess you'll have the securities book until it winds down.
But mostly you're just getting loans and deposits right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question and I'll hop out and I'll shift direction to loan growth.
The loan growth on an end-to-period basis this quarter as you guys mentioned was actually down.
How much of that do you think was volume being pulled into the fourth quarter ahead of year-end issues? And how much of it do you think is maybe anything else in terms of are you hearing anything different from your lending customers today in terms of their appetite to borrow from where they were in the fourth quarter? Okay yes.
I mean I guess directly to your question I mean I think basically look you average from the third quarter to the first quarter and you're going to see that a lot of that stuff was timing.
And I can't believe that people were -- I mean we're -- they were changing the timing in the fourth quarter because of the tax events we talked about.
But at the end of the day I think if you look just from the month of -- from February to March after we saw the drop we saw the sort of normal mid-single-digit -- low to mid-single-digit loan growth.
So I haven't noticed any change.
What we -- I mean I think it's an interesting thing.
So in upstate New York as we talk to people and actually all the way across through Albany we're seeing that some of the clients are actually -- have more utilization in their lines that we're hearing stories of people looking to make capital investment a few capital investments.
When you flip all the way down to the other end of the franchise in Washington D.C.
it's more reserved people are worried about the sequester the competition has picked up.
We were talking 2 quarters about life companies and we were talking about conduits.
Now what we're seeing and I think it's probably because of the limited fewer opportunities that the competition sort of heed up among the large national players that are in that market.
So when you look at the overall thing it's almost a -- I'm kind of laughing at the back of Bob's letter.
Middle America seems to be doing very fine and all of those areas that are affected by specific-type events right have gotten more competitive.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the BSA stuff can you try to quantify? I mean when you think about the new people you have to bring on the new systems that might go in place what kind of total dollar expenditures do these sort of add to the run rate on an annualized basis? Yes I mean this is -- I mean how do I say this? I mean look let me just say it again.
We'll make whatever investment it takes.
We're not starting from 0 right? So if we do this we do it pretty well but we need to make some additional investments.
I think the difficult part will be that relative to some other things we've done I mean you saw we agreed to bring on the 600 people from -- in the local community here in the mortgage servicing space right? I mean those types of things are probably more relevant or so visible I should say than maybe hiring of 100 people or whatever the number may be.
Really what you got to think about though is on the systems and data side right? And a lot of those capital investments that you're making you might not -- they might be significant but you might not necessarily see them right out of the gate on the -- in the financials right? They'll come over time.
So that would be the one area where you definitely see -- you see spending but you don't necessarily see the impact being significant in any given quarter.
So it's hard to say.
I mean that's basically the best I can do Ken.
As we learn more about it I'll talk to you about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just last question.
In terms of your higher-cost troughs [ph] that you have outstanding has your thought process changed at all in terms of what you might do with those or when just given the push out of Hudson City? No it hasn't changed at all.
I don't know that we've said it before but we can.
We do have approval to begin refinancing those out.
And I just haven't really thought about when we're going to do it.
In part I think if we saw attractive pricing or something like that we would probably go ahead and try to seize that opportunity.
But we're really focused on decent pricing.
So that will probably dictate the timing.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So a few people have asked me about what if anything that BSA/AML kind of a catch-up means in terms of M&amp;T broadly speaking? What I mean by that is M&amp;T which has been a historically above-average-efficiency company and a very conservative company over time is there anything -- and knowing that the industry is very much getting focused on by the regulators on BSA and AML so I don't want to read too much of that.
But is there anything we should take away here about M&amp;T's investments or degree of investments that the company has been making? I guess the question I'm getting is are you underinvested in other areas? And is that part of what's happening on the BSA/AML side? One of the things that Ken is -- let's step back and think about what's unique.
We were engaged in 3 4 or 5 transactions through the crisis when most people weren't.
And so what I think is confusing is when you look at the numbers it looks like the expenses have been well controlled.
But what you're seeing there is all of the synergies in -- from the mergers of -- the transaction have gone right back into building the infrastructure.
So I already talked about the hiring of people.
If you sort of looked underneath that that's been continuing.
But we've put in new data centers one down in Hillsboro Delaware last year.
We spent $20 million on our way to a $43 million spend.
On the one up in Amherst another new data center we've been involved in the building out our capital planning process and our compliance structure.
We hired a new Chief Compliance Officer about 1.5 years or so ago.
So I don't know if you've really noticed when you're looking at the numbers but really a significant investment has been made.
And so as we look at this we kind of see it the same way because at the end of the day you can't be a strong institution unless you're -- unless you've made these investments for the future.
So I don't really look at this as a sort of short-term thing.
I think we're going to take our time.
We'll do this right.
We'll exceed expectations because we tend to be sort of here for the long term right? And the other thing I will say is that if you look back there have been 3 periods of expansion for M&amp;T: in the early '90s at the turn of the century and then recently.
And all 3 of those periods came to us because we were healthy and the industry was not.
And what we did in the interim is we built up our infrastructure.
So that's kind of what you're seeing today.
I think we do it pretty well and I don't think this is a sign of anything that's changing in our operating model.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's important color René.
And my -- just I have one follow-up on the timing of the deal.
Can you just walk us through what the path is from here? I know it's going to be hard to say about when it is you go back to the Fed or they come back to you and then when you start to put the merger process on -- back en route.
But can you just walk us through what benchmarks -- how we can understand what has to happen between now and closing and how that's now changed what are the differences there? Sure I'll say it again Ken.
We do not take regulatory approvals for granted.
That's what we have to work our way through.
The significant issue that you have to get through is you've got to put in place your infrastructure on BSA/AML and you got to do it to meet the standards of the firm the board and the regulators.
So that's what we're doing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I'm just wondering more of like is there a path? So is that -- does that just imply then there's a period of time where you put your work in there's a period of time where you ask if it's okay there's a period of time where they tell you it's okay and then we move back on to just normal last-mile approvals? I think that's what people are just trying to understand is what needs to -- what back-and-forth needs to happen between you and the regulators in order to get to that point rather than trying to again perfectly gain like when that time is actually going to be.
That -- I mean how do I say this? That is just a hard question to answer.
I think what you're requiring me to do is put your head down and make sure everything is in place.
Our examiners each one of them who are from different places are here all the time.
They're continuously monitoring us.
And so we feel that if we do our work then the rest will take care of itself.
But in terms of talking about timing you just can't do it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That -- that's I understand.
And my last question René is just on the mortgage business can you just give us a little color on -- you mentioned that originations had stabilized.
But can you give us an understanding of what the pipeline looked like at the end of the quarter and what your commitments to originate were? Yes.
Yes sure.
So let me just do the pipeline a bit.
So we had just about 1 point -- just under $1.9 billion in our pipeline going into the -- at the end of fourth quarter.
And that's now $1.6 billion $1.64 billion.
So it's down 12% 13%.
And if you look at what we locked we were at $2 billion and this quarter we were $1.9 billion.
So that came down 6%.
So it's a little lower.
And as I said I think we saw things drop significantly by the time we got to December and then January.
But it seemed relatively stable as we kind of went through the 3 months of the quarter.
So I don't think we're seeing any kind of an acceleration from where we were in lower volume.
Although we would expect that over the next few quarters that will be the trend right? Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
I guess coming back to the question of Hudson City and the ability to do any of kind of the initiatives you had planned for accretion and cost savings and stuff like that.
I mean I guess one of the things that strikes me is some of the stuff Hudson City was thinking about doing as a stand-alone entity before the merger and some of the things you had planned for post-merger accretion initiatives are overlapping initiatives.
And so I guess should we just expect Hudson City to run on a status quo basis? Or is there some subset of things like expanding into agency mortgage origination or maybe a start on the branch rationalization that they could do because then even in a scenario unlikely scenario where they end up being a stand-alone entity they arguably would have done those things anyway? Okay.
So I can't -- Brian I can't comment on specifics because Hudson City is going to have to go down their path and run their institution.
But having said that there's a number of things before we showed up that they were trying to do that would strengthen their franchise and that would change the mix of business they have on their balance sheet that are very consistent with things that we would do if we were operating in New Jersey.
And one of the benefits of the transaction is that we were able to accelerate that but they were very much aligned.
And so when I look at the whole thing if there's a delay or significant delay in the transaction I don't see much of the changes in the economics.
I mean it's very small things.
Like obviously there'll be no benefit until Hudson City either significantly improves their -- or either significantly changes their operating model or does the merger with M&amp;T before you'd see lower FDIC expenses right? And in this case that was a large item.
So that'll just be delayed.
But I think the way you've characterized this is right but it's very important to understand that we don't have any influence over that whatsoever.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> What about -- can you remind us what percentage of your mortgage originations are HARP related? Yes it was about 26% this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay pretty much unchanged from last quarter or...
It was like 30%.
It was -- it might have been 30% last quarter.
I'll get that number for you in a minute.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And René I know you commented on sort of in the past what new origination yields sort of are in the ballpark I know.
Maybe if you could comment where those are relative to some of your overall average loan yield that was I think 424 basis points for the first quarter.
Oh you're -- I'm sorry I was back on mortgage.
So you're saying what's going on with loan yields? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes just new origination yields sort of relative to the current book which is 424.
Oh yes.
Yes it's interesting.
So last quarter we talked about it a little bit and I said that we hadn't seen much change in the competitive pressure.
And we heard more comments across our footprint about competitive pressure this time.
So I grab this chart which actually I think I got in front of me.
And really what you see is there really has been a steady downward pressure on margins probably for 6 quarters.
It's been slight so you don't really noticed it.
But I would say that we're running now at levels that we hadn't really seen since maybe the fourth quarter of 2010 because it's kind of been very gradual.
And I think what you're seeing there -- so now first having said that it's still much much higher the spreads to LIBOR from where we were than before we went into the crisis and all that right? So they're still relatively healthy.
But having said that I think what you're seeing is that there are limited opportunities.
Whether people should be thinking about it this way or not they are thinking that they have a lot of capital right and they're trying to find something to do with it when the economy really hasn't moved that much and it's creating a fair amount of competitive pressure and particularly in those customers who are very very healthy right? Everybody wants the same individual.
So when you look at the trends I would say that it's just coming down slightly.
Maybe it's dropping 2 3 4 basis points a quarter right? But there's -- clearly you can see the pressure.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know I guess really the yield dilution or yield pressure a lot of it has really been on the securities book.
And I seem to remember new originations were sort of coming on close to where the average loan book is.
So what's your -- where is the number sort of relative to the 424? Is it sub-4%? I guess if you're assuming 2 or 3 basis points a quarter I guess that's what you would apply.
Some I'll throw some numbers out there just as a rough reference right? And I don't think about loan yields that way.
I think about them as a spread to LIBOR.
So if we're running up at 300 basis points now 18 months ago that might have been 320.
And that 300 basis points is kind of consistent what we were in 2010 but we might have been at 400 back in middle of '09 right? So -- and you kind of think that steady progression.
Having said that we were 200 or right around 200 and trying to hold our ground which is why our industry loan growth was low maybe 190 back in '07 right? So we're still about 100 basis points higher than that.
And then -- and so that's good news.
But in terms of what you're thinking about the rollover of the balance sheet you got some downward pressure there.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had 3 questions for you.
How much traction are you still feel out in the marketplace with the HSBC branch sales and the disruption of the customers? A lot of those in-market acquisitions that go to somebody else create a pretty substantial market share gain so I just was curious if you still felt like there was some momentum there.
Yes I think -- again I guess the best indication was Western New York again had our best loan growth.
So I think we said we had 5%.
I think it was 11% loan growth in Upstate New York on average this quarter.
And while I would expect some of that to begin to taper off because a lot of the activities that -- the significant activity that took place last quarter.
Marty I don't know if you'll appreciate this but as I live here in Western New York and I go to dinner parties people -- every time I say I'm from M&amp;T people still come up and say "I need to switch to your bank." So I think there's a lot of momentum.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
[Indiscernible].
But I wouldn't expect it to be as strong as what we saw last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then BSA and AML are long-standing requirements.
And as you pointed out you really don't have a lot of international activity and complex businesses.
And the acquisition of Hudson City really doesn't add to that exposure as well so not specifically in that area.
How do you -- is it just the size so your size of the organization that kind of puts you on a threshold? Because this isn't the first review you've had of these requirements.
They've been out there for quite a while.
I think Marty that what you're seeing is that in this environment there's a lot of change and you've got to continuously make improvements and investments.
And you've got to go above and beyond to make sure that you're ahead of the curve.
And you can't -- you just can't step back.
You've got to keep making investments.
A huge change is going on in the industry.
And it's not a matter of sort of saying well I was okay last year so I'll be okay this year.
You've got to make those investments.
And I think in our case it's a little bit exacerbated by the fact that we're a bigger firm.
LLC Research Division</strong> There's no signs before in reviews or anything like that that there was imminent issue? Yes you -- well Marty you've been on my team.
I guess I'll leave it at that.
LLC Research Division</strong> We'll go on to the next question.
Any change in your balance sheet perspective for the positioning? Since Hudson City was only going to balance the balance sheet and kind of use some of your asset sensitivity any change in your perspective with the delay? That was the last thing I wanted to ask.
And thanks for humoring me on some of my questions there.
No change at all.
We don't see any change at all.
I think we're just -- we'll keep -- as we said in our outlook.
But there's no restructurings or anything.
Or if we're working on anything where as you saw with the issuance of unsecured debt we're sort of steadily working our way to make sure that we have the appropriate liquidity and so forth.
And we will -- I wouldn't be surprised to see a few more of that type of thing.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is Ebrahim on behalf of Erika.
I had a quick clarification to Brian's question earlier on the other expense line item.
Did you say we should expect that $170 million to sort of trend back higher to sort of where it's been in the second half of last year like the first quarter is seasonally low and it goes back up? Yes.
Usually there's a seasonal dip in that and I can't explain exactly why right off the top of my head.
But in terms of professional services and those types of things they tend to be light in the first quarter and I think that was the case this quarter.
So I wouldn't be surprised to see a little uptick there.
Put it this way.
Our -- in the past going from the first quarter to second quarter you don't get the full benefit of the change in the salary and benefit swing.
Research Division</strong> Good okay.
And I guess just one question with regards to the Hudson City deal.
Does that change in terms of your hiring plans in the New York area with regards to commercial bankers like that deal will reduce the rate of hiring? Or how does that impact the thought process there? No I don't think so at all.
I mean I think -- remember the thing to think about it which people tend to forget about is that we're already there.
And so we've hired quality people.
And if we find -- we continue to find quality folks who we think can add to our franchise then we would continue to hire them.
But it -- you will almost again think of that as a little bit separate from the transaction.
I know we accelerated everything because of it but I think quality people are always welcome here.
Our final question comes from the line of Steven Palestri [ph] a private investor.
This is Gap Lester [ph] René.
I'm concerned where the new shares are coming from that you're going to be issuing to HCBK shareholders.
Could you just repeat that question again? You're just a little -- your voice was a little light on the call.
Sure.
I'm concerned where the new shares are going to be coming from that you will have to be issuing HCBK shareholders.
Are you issuing new shares and will that dilute the current shares of M&amp;T? Now so the proposal of -- as the agreement we entered into specifies is that we would be issuing shares of M&amp;T to the Hudson City shareholders.
60% of the consideration would be in shares and the remainder would be in cash.
And because they would be issued in conjunction with the -- a positive economic transaction there would be no dilution.
But are those shares currently in circulation only held by M&amp;T so that they're -- you're just not loading more shares to the [indiscernible] of shares? Well what would happen is those shares part of the shares would be exchanged for the Hudson City shares.
And in return we would get the capital that sits on Hudson City's books today.
Okay so there's no dilution of the current shares of M&amp;T? Not as we projected.
You do have a question from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Adam Chaim in for Matt O'Connor.
I just had a follow-up on the balance sheet management question ahead of HCBK.
Sorry if this has already been asked but you started selling almost all your residential mortgage production late last year I think partially given anticipation of Hudson City closing.
So I think you said earlier that your balance sheet management wouldn't change ahead of this given the delay.
So this doesn't change your thought process in terms of holding more of that until the deal is actually closed? The transaction [ph]? We don't have any change in thought process from where I was in January.
So I don't plan to do -- we don't plan to do anything different.
And your final question comes from the line of Gary Lu with First Investors.
So René so if the timing of the regulatory issue is so difficult to predict can you talk about your thoughts behind putting out a January 2014 time line in the press release? And also the second question is assume we are in January 2014 and you still haven't received the approval.
Do you intend to maybe extend the deadline a little bit? Or do you really want to walk away from the deal? Oh that's a lot of questions.
I think it's tough to say that.
But think about it this way.
In banking and in regulated -- definitely in regulated industries it's not unusual first for shareholder approvals to be obtained prior to getting any kind of a regulatory approval right? So that is not unusual at all.
And I think if you kind of go back and look at what we've been talking about for the past 7 months in investor conferences in our original deck this transaction is unique and adds a lot of value to both sides.
So our thought process was -- our thought process when sitting down with the Hudson City folks is that we all remain really committed to the transaction because it adds so much value and it improves both financial institutions.
So -- and I don't -- I think at the end of the day not much else to say about that.
I mean you can see it in the market's reaction.
Everybody gets this transaction makes a lot of sense and so we're very committed to it.
So we thought we would extend the time line give ourselves a little bit more time to get our issues resolved and move on.
At this time we have no further questions.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items in the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As I noted in the press release our earnings quality remained strong in the recent quarter including higher net interest income comparatively strong mortgage banking revenues and above average credit quality.
We took advantage of favorable market conditions by executing prudent balance sheet actions that enhanced our liquidity capital and long-term return profile while continuing to serve the needs of our communities in a relatively competitive landscape and an evolving regulatory environment.
Let's review the detail of the quarter's results.
After which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per share common share were $2.55 in the second quarter of 2013 up 29% from $1.98 in this year's first quarter and up 49% from $1.71 in last year's second quarter.
Net income for the recent quarter was $348 million up from $274 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $233 million in the second quarter of 2012.
During the quarter we took advantage of some -- of the stronger risk appetite from investors in the current low interest rate environment by selling over $1 billion of private label mortgage-backed securities previously held in our available-for-sale investment portfolio.
The after-tax loss on the sale amounted to $28 million or $0.22 per common share.
This transaction resulted in higher liquidity and capital and removed a risk-sensitive asset which had been generating substantially all of our other-than-temporary impairment charges from our balance sheet and assists us in preparation for entering the 2014 CCAR process.
Also during the quarter we sold our holdings of Visa and MasterCard common stock which we had received through the restructuring of those companies back before the financial crisis.
The after-tax gain amounted to $62 million or $0.48 per common share.
Lastly following the second anniversary of the Wilmington Trust merger we reversed an accrual for a contingent compensation obligation assumed in that transaction.
The result is a reduction of noninterest expense having an after-tax impact of $15 million or $0.12 per common share.
Taken together these 3 items contributed $50 million to net income for the quarter or $0.38 per common share.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions.
Included in GAAP earnings for the second quarter of 2013 were after-tax merger-related expenses related to Hudson City that were incurred early in the quarter and which amounted to $5 million or $0.04 per common share.
This compares with $3 million or $0.02 per share in the prior quarter.
After-tax expenses from the amortization of intangible assets was $8 million or $0.06 per common share unchanged from the prior quarter.
Net operating income for the quarter which excludes those merger-related expenses and intangible amortization was $361 million compared with $285 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $2.65 for the recent quarter up 29% from $2.06 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income expressed as an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common equity was 1.81% and 22.72% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.48% and 18.71% in the first quarter of 2013.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning press release -- this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement.
Tax equivalent net interest income was $684 million for the second quarter of 2013 up from $663 million in the linked quarter.
As required by GAAP we regularly revisit the cash flow projections on which we base our valuations of acquired loans.
In general continued improvement in economic conditions particularly in the former Wilmington Trust footprint led to a reduction in estimated expected credit losses on acquired loans of $130 million.
As a result our estimates of cash flows to be generated by the acquired loans have increased by about 2%.
Those increases resulted in about $6 million of additional interest income in the second quarter on our $4.9 billion portfolio of acquired loans as compared to the first quarter.
Of course as acquired loans repay and that portfolio reduces in size in future periods the dollar amount of interest income earned on acquired loans will also decline.
Net interest margin was 3.71% during the second quarter unchanged from the first quarter.
A higher level of accretable yield from acquired loans added about 6 basis points to the margin compared to the first quarter.
Prepayment penalties from commercial loans combined with cash basis interest received on nonaccrual loans added about 7 basis points to the margin as compared with the prior quarter and higher level of excess funds held at the fed reduced the margin by about 9 basis points.
This reflected a higher level of deposits by Wilmington Trust -- held by Wilmington Trust customers in connection with the pending -- in connection with pending capital markets transactions as well as proceeds from the private-label MBS and the Visa and MasterCard stock that we sold.
Lastly in line with our prior outlook there were some 4 basis points of what we'd consider core margin compression which reflects the continuation of the trends that we in the industry have been seeing higher-yielding loans maturing and being replaced at today's lower yields.
As for the balance sheet the average loans grew at an annualized 1% from the first quarter.
Compared with 2013's first quarter changes in average balance -- in average loans by category were as follows: Commercial and industrial loans grew a healthy 9% annualized; commercial real estate loans grew an annualized 2%; residential real estate loans declined an annualized 12% reflecting in part our conversion of $288 million of FHA loans into Ginnie Mae securities the majority of which were retained in our investment portfolio; consumer loans were down an annualized 2%.
On an end-of-period basis both commercial and industrial loans as well as CRE loans grew at a similar pace to what we experienced on an average basis for the quarter.
From a regional perspective the Upstate and Western New York region as well as Pennsylvania experienced decent overall loan growth at 8% and 7% annualized respectively.
This included double-digit annualized growth in C&amp;I loans.
While the benefit we've been seeing as a result of the HSBC divestitures locally is tailing off I would tell you that there is still some lingering benefit as customers who had not moved to M&amp;T in the initial period following the merger are now finding M&amp;T to be a good fit.
Loans in our metro region which includes New York City were relatively unchanged reflecting paydowns on several large CRE transactions that generated the prepayment penalties I referenced earlier.
The Mid-Atlantic region was also flat I think largely in connection with the fact that it's the region that we're seeing the most competition from banks as well as from life insurance companies.
Average core deposits which excluded deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Island office and CDs greater than $2 000 -- $250 000 grew an annualized 12% reflecting in part the trust-related deposits I mentioned earlier.
Turning to net interest -- noninterest income.
Noninterest income totaled $509 million in the second quarter compared to $433 million in the prior quarter.
Included in that figure is a $56 million of net securities gains which includes losses on the sale of the private-label MBS and the gains from the sale of Visa and MasterCard stock that I previously noted.
Noninterest income excluding securities gains and losses was $452 million improved from $443 million in the linked quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues declined to $91 million in the recent quarter compared with $93 million in the prior quarter.
Residential origination volumes declined by 2% from the first quarter while residential gain on sale margins declined by 40 basis points.
The bright spot was on the commercial side where originations and gain on sale revenue nearly doubled from the first quarter which masked the decline on the residential side.
We'll update you on our outlook for mortgage banking revenues in a few moments.
Fee income from deposit services provided were $112 million during the recent quarter compared with $111 million in the linked quarter.
Trust and investment revenues were $125 million up from $102 million in the prior -- excuse me $125 million up from $122 million in the prior quarter.
Those revenues benefited from the normal seasonal uptick in tax preparation fees.
Turning to expenses.
Operating expenses which exclude merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible assets were $578 million for the second quarter.
Excluding the reversal of the accrual that I mentioned at the beginning of the call operating expenses were $604 million.
This compares to $618 million in the first quarter.
The decline compared to the linked quarter reflects a return to normal levels of compensation expense following the seasonally high levels in the first quarter partially offset by higher professional service fees including those related to our BSA/AML work.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and the merger-related gains and expenses was 50.9% for the second quarter improved from 55.9% in the prior quarter.
Excluding the reversal of the Wilmington Trust accrual the efficiency ratio would have been 53.2% in the second quarter.
That efficiency ratio was also improved from 56.9% in the year-ago quarter.
Next let's turn to credit.
Our credit quality remained strong and in line with our expectations.
Nonaccrual loans were 1.46% of loans at the end of the second quarter improved from 1.6% of total loans at the end of the previous quarter and 1.52% of total loans at the end of last year.
Other nonperforming assets consisting of assets taken in foreclosure of defaulted loans also continued to decline down from $96 million at the end of the first quarter to $82 million as of June 30.
As has been the case for some time we expect to report a further decline in our level of criticized assets when we file our 10-Q next month.
Net charge-offs for the second quarter were $57 million compared with $37 million in the first quarter.
The increase was the result of a $30 million charge-off on a loan to a wholesaler and remanufacturer of auto parts.
The annualized charge-off rate -- the annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 35 basis points in line with our long-term average.
Annualized net charge-offs were 23 basis points in the linked quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $57 million for the second quarter exactly matching charge-offs.
As a result the allowance for credit losses was unchanged at $922 million at the end of the second quarter.
The ratio of allowance for credit losses to total loans was 1.41% again unchanged from the linked quarter.
The allowance -- the loan-loss allowance as of June 30 was 4.9x the annualized net charge-offs for the annualized year-to-date net charge-off level.
Loans 90 days past due excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $340 million at end of the recent quarter.
Of these $315 million or 93% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Loans 90 days past due were $331 million at the end of the first quarter of which 94% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
M&amp;T's Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 8.55% at the end of June up 62 basis points from 9 -- from 7.93% at end of the first quarter.
With the adoption of the final rule on Basel III capital accord for U.S.
bank holding companies we are now working on formalizing our disclosure for this ratio and should begin ongoing reporting of this measure by the end of the third quarter.
Our preliminary estimate is that our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III will be 40 to 45 basis points lower than that under Basel I.
This contrasts with our remarks on the January call where we estimated that our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III -- under the Basel III NPR will be lower by some 75 to 100 basis points than under Basel I.
So another way we estimate that our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III at the end of June would be approximately 8.1%.
Lastly let's turn to our outlook.
The rising long-term interest rates during the quarter from historical low levels provide us with an opportunity to invest in higher-yielding qualifying liquid securities and we continue to see the potential for the estimated 3 basis points of quarterly core margin pressure that we've previously indicated.
The intense competition among lenders and other -- in our markets continues.
Although at this point our outlook for mid-single-digit loan growth for 2013 is unchanged.
The tapering off in Residential Mortgage Banking activity that we referenced earlier this year has obviously begun and should lead to further declines in mortgage banking revenues and gain on sale margins during the second half of the year.
Turning to expenses.
While we expect our core expenses to continue to be well managed we expect our professional service expenses to continue to rise reflecting our continued investment in infrastructure including risk management as well as enhancements to our capital planning and stress testing.
In addition we are hiring staff to support those and other regulatory efforts.
And with respect to credit.
Despite the charge-off on the loan to the auto parts company this quarter we expect net charge-offs to remain low for the remainder of 2013 which as I've noted before are already below what we consider to be our long-run -- long-term loss rate.
As I've mentioned previously we remain focused on enhancing our capital and liquidity profile and closing the gap with our peer regional banks as we transition towards becoming a CCAR bank in 2014.
We continue to build a quality capital at a healthy pace with our estimated Tier 1 common ratio at 8.55% again up 140 basis points from last June and 62 basis points from March.
Lastly I want to end by giving you an update on the BSA/AML matter that we disclosed in April.
As you know we subsequently entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve on June 18 which outlined our obligations to address the fed's concerns regarding BSA/AML compliance.
The written agreement calls for submitting a plan in the near term which would then need to be carried out to the satisfaction of our board and the fed.
The satisfactory execution of that plan is a critical path towards a resolution of that written agreement.
We are working diligently to address these matters in a timely and accurate manner.
The successful resolution of which will result in a stronger risk management infrastructure at M&amp;T for years to come.
Of course all of these projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth: changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may materially -- which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
I know you all have been busy this morning with all of the earnings announcements in addition to ours.
So now maybe we'll -- let's open up the call to questions.
Before which I'll have Jackie briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I get all the moving pieces here.
So within the release you guys talked about a $13 million impact to net interest income which sounded to me maybe related to the $130 million you re-classed from the non-accretable.
So that to me I think is -- how does that kind of reconcile with the $6 million you talked about here this morning? Yes.
You've got to think about -- we -- when we report in our Q the table on accretable yield it's all of the yield on the acquired loans.
So you have that number coming down from quarter-to-quarter right? We added a new estimate of our cash flows that we're likely to receive.
So really when you look at the change from the quarter-to-quarter that accretable yields from acquired loans that actually increased by just $6 million right because the number is coming down over time.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So the $70.5 million you recorded in the first quarter that number had gone down by $7 million and now you added $6 million in.
So...
Yes.
So I think that number is about $6.5 million higher than the last quarter $70.5 million to $77 million or so.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Okay.
And then -- so I guess going forward then that $6 million -- I mean I guess if I had a run rate that I was kind of assuming you'd have a level yield in that acquired portfolio that the accretable yield would go down I should be adding somewhere about that $13 million impact to my -- what I would have guessed would have been your normal accretable yield going forward? Is that fair to say? Well I think if you were to reset yourself right you can kind of look back at those tables we provided.
You can see how much that is coming down.
So for -- I won't give you the example but you can kind of work your way through that.
But the way I think about it Brian is we're left with about $4.9 million of acquired loans out of say 60 -- sorry 6 -- $4.9 billion of acquired loans out of $60 billion.
And if you look at the yield the yield -- the difference between our yield on loans with versus without those acquired loans is about 15 basis points.
And if you assume for a minute that the average life is 3 years you're going to lose about 5 basis points of that every year basis point or so a quarter.
That's embedded in when Don and I talk about 3 basis points of compression.
That's one of the things causing that compression.
So your assumption of level yield is that's the way we look at it.
That's the appropriate way to look at it I think.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So x all of this your guidance then of saying "Look you should be back to sort of the 3 to 4 basis points of core compression." That is assuming though that you take what about $2 billion or so -- $2.4 billion of interest-bearing deposits that excess liquidity which was the 9 basis point drag this quarter on the NIM.
You are going to put that back to work either you're going to buy some securities or actually put that in organic loan growth? Yes.
Well I mean how do I -- good question.
So what I would say is you got it right.
So we're -- our thought process is 3 basis points of compression a quarter.
We're still sticking with that.
One of the things that we do have is we do have the opportunity to reinvest that cash in sort of qualifying liquid securities as you start thinking about the new ratios that are coming out.
So that gives us some ability to offset.
And I don't know how to exactly think about that because as you know we often think about match funded.
So as we put on Ginnie Maes and those types of things economically we think about the spread towards wholesale funding that we could go out and get.
But you're right one of the sources that could in the near term have the margin be more stable is reinvesting those -- that cash.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm going to get in the queue.
But just with that you haven't reinvested that excess liquidity yet? We've invested some.
So if you look at the investment securities portfolio you've got -- so we sold the $1.1 billion of the agencies.
That probably had an average impact of somewhere between $600 million and $700 million on the balance sheet.
But we also purchased a little over $800 million of Ginnies.
And if you think about what we've been saying our investment securities book has been shrinking in part because and this is my term the rate seemed to be a little artificial.
And so with a jump-up of 100 basis points it was sort of a nice opportunity for us to say "Okay.
Well let's start buying some so that we can hold those qualifying securities as we go forward." Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess that agencies you bought can you just give us that yield and I'll -- then I'll get back in the queue.
The Ginnies we bought -- we committed to buy in 2Q but they all settle in July.
So they're not on the balance sheet at June 30.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> René couple of questions just in terms of the BSA issue as well as Hudson City.
First off can you give us a sense of like the time line for the planned submission to the fed? Well I mean the only thing we really can give you is as you saw in the written agreement there's a requirement around 60 days for us to come up with our credible plan that would need to be approved by the regulators.
And then what's probably most important is from their reaction we have to go execute that plan right? So the way I think about it is we're really focused on submitting that plan and then we'll have our head down for some time trying to make sure that we have everything in place to execute it.
So I think sort of speculating on any time line at least right now doesn't make much sense for us.
We'll keep updating you as we move forward.
But there's not really much to say beyond that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is only just my assumption that you guys obviously had kind of started that work prior to formerly receiving the agreement based on what they had possibly communicated to you previously as you guys disclosed that last quarter.
Yes.
I mean that's true.
I mean I'll say 2 things: I feel that I'm happy we got a good jumpstart on the issue.
And in the same tone I think we've got a lot of work to do.
So I think the way we think about it is once you get into something like that like everything else you want to build a first-rate process not one that just sort of meets the hurdle but that you can sort of use as an investment for the long term.
So I feel good and at the same time I also feel like we've got a lot of work to do.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No understood.
And then I don't know if you can answer this.
But within the agreement there's not necessarily any prohibition in terms of asset purchases and so on and so forth.
But I think as you mentioned in your remarks you want the plan and execution so to speak to be to the satisfaction of not only the fed but the board as well.
So help me kind of understand in terms of again kind of that process if you will from a formal standpoint and how it may affect or influence your ongoing kind of evaluation of the Hudson City transaction as I think about valuation in your ongoing review of that deal as time goes on.
Well you got a couple of questions in there.
I think -- I mean I think one I'm going to repeat myself.
I think once we get through the work we have to do on BSA/AML and when we get through to the satisfaction of everybody then we'll consider what we do with things such as Hudson City but really not before then.
In terms of the economics I mean we have a good understanding of Hudson City's balance sheet.
We think about for example what the moves in rates will do to them.
We -- there's a lot of moving parts but there's nothing that makes us uncomfortable about the economics of the transaction relative to where we were before.
Obviously all of that's got to be revisited when we sort of get back at it right? Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the servicing acquisition that you guys are going to close when is it going to close and how we think about the financial impact of it? Well again I think the first thing is is that we're not purchasing servicing right? We -- what we've agreed to do that's been out there in the [indiscernible] public for some time is to be a sub-servicer right? And so just sort of operationally I mean if you think about expenses for a minute you're likely to see expenses rise on a normal basis.
I talked about that earlier on my earlier comments.
But we've now hired about 500 people located here in Buffalo that used to work for a third party.
And all of those 500 people are up and running as of July 1 right? So first thing you're going to see is that there'll be a little bit higher expenses as you get into the third quarter and then that work will trickle in through the quarter right? And so I don't think you really get a full running impact of any change in our servicing profitability in probably till the fourth quarter right? But I would say it's kind of relatively negligible if you think of the bottom line because of the fact that you've got to sort of start up -- negligible next quarter because you've got to put those upfront costs in place.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was getting more at what you think the incremental kicker is from a run rate perspective not from a next quarter.
But is this accretive to earnings? Is it -- I mean the math would say it is.
I'm just trying to give -- get a sense of if this -- is this a needle mover is this just...
I mean it's a great question Ken.
I guess the way -- I didn't think about it till you just said that.
But I don't really -- it's not that big such that it's going -- I mean going to offset the decline that we're going to see in residential mortgage gains and we saw a 40-point decline on the residential side there.
I wouldn't be surprised to see the same again next quarter.
I don't -- I think that's probably the bigger theme maybe mortgage banking revenue will be a little bit supported over the next few quarters by it but you're still going to see an overall downward trend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And René just the -- that reversal of the Wilmington gain did -- could you just talk to us about the size of that and where that was geographically within the expense lines? Well it's in other expense.
And this was when we closed the merger at the outset of the opening balance sheet there was contingency outstanding obviously because if you can take yourself back to all that turmoil we wanted to make sure that we were properly reserved given all of the contracts that were sort of out there.
And I think what you see is this very nice sign that as -- over time we've kind of gotten through the integration.
It's now a little past the 2-year anniversary.
A lot of people have remained with M&amp;T and have decided to sort of remain as part of the group.
So what you're kind of seeing is the finality of all that.
And there was sort of that amount that was no longer considered a contingent liability as we got to this quarter.
So I think I said the amount did I not? On a pretax basis it was $26 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $26 million.
Okay.
And then last quick thing is just can you give us the mortgage apps pipeline closings? Oh yes.
So I'll give you a couple numbers.
So this lock volume I'll give you the first quarter was $1.8 billion -- $1.9 billion.
Second quarter was $1.8 billion.
And then if I give you the pipeline at the end of the first quarter we have $1.6 billion.
And the end of the second quarter we have $1.6 billion.
So what's happening is the volume is up is remaining steady maybe down 1 or 2 percentage points.
But the only reason that's happening is because the gain on sale margins are dropping at a healthy pace.
So I think that kind of tees you up.
I wouldn't expect a big big change in volume next quarter but I would expect gain on sale margins to continue to decline.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit about how the movement that we've seen in mortgage rates and interest rates generally impacts the Hudson City acquisition.
And I think that those assets get mark to market at close.
So with mortgage rates higher how does that affect I guess the capital gain as well as the income off of that business? Okay.
So I'm going to give you this very -- in a very general sense and from my understanding of over the past year the balance sheet not necessarily from having any conversations with Hudson City.
And I would guess if I look at the profile of that balance sheet the mortgages will extend some net interest income will be higher.
The issue you had is the steepening of the curve.
So obviously that's going to affect a little bit of the mark on any sort of fixed rate asset side but you're going to have them out there for a longer period as well right so that's a little bit of an offset.
And I wouldn't expect much in the way of any change in the mark on the liability side right because the short end didn't move.
So you could get some -- if you're thinking of March maybe there would be some negative impact as where we stand today.
Really what matters most is what happens to the short end because that's where the big issue is on the wholesale borrowing.
The second point I would make is that as we see things here these are reflections of the economy improving.
So you also should get some improvement on the credit profile.
I mean they're pristine.
But having said that everybody should get some benefit from the improvement in the economy.
And the third thing is that the change in the Basel III rule is probably a positive effect from what we are all thinking on how mortgages are treated both from the complexity of what we have to do to track it all and also from the favorable capital treatment from the rule now being finalized.
So there's a lot of moving parts right but those are the items.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then one other question and I'll hop back out.
The bump in CRE loan yields this quarter -- I know you mentioned prepayment penalty income.
I'm just curious how much of that was the prepayment? How much was maybe the adjustment in assumptions on the Wilmington purchase loans? And I didn't catch the prepayment dollar amount if you gave it earlier.
Yes.
I lumped it all together and I think with the nonperformings and we said that was 7 basis points the 2 in total relative to the previous quarter.
And I mean without getting real -- I have it somewhere probably half of that is probably prepayment.
Give me a second.
Yes I don't have the 2 broken out but let's say it's half of the 7 basis points just as a general thought.
I think the real issue it's interesting is that -- so when we sit around thinking about that we say "Okay well maybe that won't reoccur next quarter." So we tend to be relatively conservative.
But having said that it's very logical that we were seeing prepayment -- those prepayment penalties because all throughout our balance sheet we saw the impact of lower rates and people trying to refinance.
We saw it in credit in both deals in our normal portfolio where it actually was not a bad quarter in terms of loan volume in terms of origination.
But we're seeing a lot of refinancings.
We're seeing that in the nonperforming book.
It's also part of what's behind the reversal on the Wilmington side of the -- into accretable yield right? Because people are able to refinance things that are relatively healthy.
So that said it's hard to predict.
It's somewhat lumpy in the margin but it could continue for while -- as people are trying to make sure they lock down their refinancings with the anticipation of rates being up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the Wilmington credit market investment was that predominantly in the commercial real estate portfolio? Is that where virtually all that was? It's across the board.
There was a fair amount a healthy amount in the real estate portfolio yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on the liquidity.
What -- of the $2.4 billion in average balances especially in light of the Basel III requirements on liquidity what -- how much should we consider excess to -- for reinvestment? So let me just -- I'll get to you -- I'll do it in 2 parts.
So overall our focus over the next couple of quarters is to sort of -- is to continue to improve our liquidity profile and sort of the movement in rates makes that a little bit easier today.
So as we get to the outset would not be surprising to see all of that sort of reinvested in very very liquid-type securities.
But beyond that we probably would continue to focus on that through additional -- we did $800 million of unsecured funding a quarter or 2 ago.
We'll probably do more of that right? So over time we'll start to work on that liquidity profile as we get closer to the final rules.
And then that will have to be also invested.
So I'd kind of think of the first set as maybe all of the $2.4 billion $2.5 billion will be invested.
And then there'll be more but it will -- those will be at sort of match-funded spreads right? Research Division</strong> And just a second question on the follow-up to your expense guidance.
Should we think of the base upon which we're growing expenses for the second half of the year as $604 million? I don't see anything wrong with doing that.
I think yes then you'll have to make adjustments for -- again I mentioned the people we've hired and we continue to hire folks on the regulatory side.
I think since last quarter for example we've hired 53 BSA/AML professionals we've added to the team.
And then you'll see professional services rising some as well but starting at that $604 million is probably a good way to go about it.
Your next question comes your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at overall loan growth here.
I understand why you're reducing the consumer real estate portfolio at a pretty fast clip here.
But I'm wondering can you provide some commentary around your expectations for overall loan growth before the Hudson City deal closes really given kind of modest negative loan growth in the first quarter and flattish loan growth during the second quarter.
What was the first part? Modest negative growth when? Research Division</strong> I was just saying -- well I mean the question is what are your expeditions for overall loan growth given residential real estate is kind of running off and commercial is actually fairly strong.
Yes.
So I don't know if you caught that but we securitized some FHA loans.
And so a little under $300 million of that just went right into our securities book.
So in terms of earnings assets there wasn't much of a change.
There'll be a slight runoff in the resi portfolio but we'll also do some -- retain a certain portion to sort of keep that runoff to be flat as we go forward.
The C&amp;I I mean it was a little higher than normal and I would say 9% growth is pretty healthy.
We haven't seen a change.
When we look at our pipeline for both C&amp;I and CRE the quarter was pretty good.
The amount of pressure on deals that we accepted was light.
The margins were strong.
The thing that we're seeing is that there's a fair amount of prepays particularly on the fixed rate portfolios.
And then finally if you look at the consumer side on as that [ph] basis and particularly if you look at home equity and indirect for the first time they actually had slight growth.
So it sort of seems like those are leveling off which is kind of why we held our -- held on to our 5% number overall.
So we don't see much change.
Some people are talking about slowdown.
But everything we see is -- the slowdown is driven by paydowns which is always good from a credit perspective it's always good from the customer locking in lower rates and being healthier right? So that's our logic behind sort of sticking with 5% or mid-single digit I think is what we -- or low mid-single-digit loan growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And René you classified about $10.4 billion of consumer real estate loans in the June quarter.
I understand why that was down but do you expect that portfolio to decline at a pretty quick pace the next few quarters? Or you think that should kind of level off here? It hasn't changed much.
I mean it's been down 1% 2% every time we report.
And on an asset basis it was actually flat to up this quarter right? So I kind of view it as slowing.
I can't think of another reason why that would change.
Research Division</strong> And then René just a number question on the fee waiver.
What was the impact of fee waivers in the second and first quarter in the trust income line? Was it material? Fee waivers.
On the money funds I think I'll have to get back to you on that Craig.
I don't have that in hand right now.
Well finally to your last question I think the other thing is is that we may do more securitizations right? So that will be just to re-class.
But again we want to make sure that the portions of our balance sheet that we have as customer loans that we make sure that they have guarantees and a certain amount of liquidity as we kind of think about our liquidity coverage.
And your final question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> René at the beginning of the call you mentioned that you -- part of the reason why you sold the securities was to help your 2014 CCAR application.
Is -- has anything changed in terms of the application process? Are you -- is there a certain reason for why you're doing it? Because obviously you went through the process last year.
I was just wondering what's different about next year's process.
That's a great question.
It's a great great question.
Well we went through the CapPR process which is a process where we run our own models and we go through a review and the Federal Reserve and other -- Federal Reserve actually goes through and reviews our governance and our process.
But we've actually never been a CCAR bank which requires an extra step which is being part of the horizontal process in which half is -- half of that process is what we did before but the other half is that it now goes through the fed's own models right which was something that we're not familiar with.
So we've really taken the position that as we kind of have learned about our portfolio we thought -- we want to make sure that we're pretty well positioned to go through that test for the first time.
And of course that sort of is all benchmarked off of where you are at 9 30.
So it's been a big focus of ours.
Well that married up very nicely with the private label mortgage-backed securities is that we run a model and we've modeled those for valuation purposes.
And until recently our model was saying that those securities were worth more than what the market prices were implying.
But as we got into the early part of the quarter that changed and the valuations on the market were well above our model.
And so we decided to pull the trigger.
To give you some sense had we pulled that trigger back in '09 the difference would have been roughly $240 million right? So it's not a core security.
It's also a risk-sensitive security.
So if you have stress and housing prices were to drop right then not only are you not going to collect that $200 million extra you're going to take a hit right in OTTI under extreme stress.
So it's not a core asset.
We decided to move it off and then we take the $1 billion and we also use it to improve our liquidity profile.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That helps.
And then just really quickly or last thing is on the CRE payouts you mentioned there was a couple of big ones in the quarter that drove the prepays.
Was that -- how large were they? I'm just trying to get a sense of if it was meaningful for the growth in CRE this quarter.
Yes.
It would have changed the percentage growth.
I definitely think so.
I don't know how to -- I mean first of all there were several.
Several loans anywhere from $5 million to $30 million $35 million would not be abnormal.
And not only that in our nonaccrual book you had several loans that paid off as well right so both there and the nonaccrual balances.
So how do I say it? I think -- I kind of think of it as more of a trend.
I don't know how long the trend will last.
But I don't know if that helps.
There was not one really large transaction that paid down [ph].
And that was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the M&amp;T Bank Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As I noted in the press release M&amp;T's profit softened during the recent quarter as compared with the previous quarter.
This reflects the impact from -- the impact to M&amp;T from the industry-wide slowdown in mortgage banking activity as well as higher operating expense arising from our investments in risk management capital planning and stress testing regulatory compliance and technology and operating infrastructure.
I'll cover more details on these investments in a moment.
The recent quarter was also marked by continued strengthening of our Tier 1 common capital ratio which increased by 52 basis points to 9.07%.
Let me first review a few of the highlights from the quarter's results after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Turning to specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $2.11 in the third quarter of 2013 compared with $2.55 in this year's second quarter and $2.17 in last year's third quarter.
Net income for the recent quarter was $294 million compared with $348 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $293 million in the third quarter of 2012.
During the period we completed the remainder of our actions initiated to strengthen our capital and liquidity position in an efficient -- in the most efficient manner.
We converted some $1 billion of FHA loans on our balance sheet into Ginnie Mae securities which we retained in our investment portfolio.
In addition we securitized and sold $1.4 billion of capital intensive lower returns indirect auto loans.
These transactions generated $56 million of pretax securitization gains which contributed $34 million to net income for the quarter or $0.26 per common share.
You will recall that M&amp;T's results for the second quarter included net pretax gains on the sale of investment securities amounting to $56 million.
Also during the second quarter we reversed an accrual amounting to $26 million pretax for a contingent compensation obligation assumed in the Wilmington Trust merger and which had expired.
Taken together those items contributed $50 million after tax to net income for the second quarter or $0.38 per common share.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $6 million or $0.05 per common share during the third quarter compared with $8 million or $0.06 per share in the prior quarter.
There were no merger-related expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2013.
In the second quarter merger-related expenses amounted to $5 million after-tax effect or $0.04 per common share.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the quarter which excludes amortization -- intangible amortization and merger-related expenses was $301 million compared with $361 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per share -- per common share were $2.15 for the recent quarter compared with $2.65 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholder's equity of 1.48% and 17.64% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.81% and 22.72% in the second quarter 2013.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $679 million for the third quarter of 2013 down by $5 million from the linked quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.61% during the third quarter compared with 3.71% in the second quarter.
The narrowing of the net interest margin was largely the result of a $13 million decline in prepayment fees and interest on non-accrual loans.
This accounted for 7 basis points of the decline in margin.
The remaining 3 basis points of the decline reflects the core margin pressure that we've been projecting for some time and that we continue to expect to unfold over the course of the year -- over the course of the next year.
The higher level of earnings assets would have been sufficient to grow net interest income despite core margin pressure were it not for the return to normal levels of prepayment fees and cash basis interest.
As for the balance sheet average earnings assets grew by an annualized 4% or about $700 million from the second quarter.
This included a $1.7 billion increase in average investment securities and a $1.1 billion decline in average loans both of which reflect the securitization activity primarily the FHA securitization that I mentioned earlier.
In addition to these securities -- to the securities retained through the securitization of FHA loan we purchased an additional $1.6 billion of Ginnie Mae securities in the open market over the course of the third quarter essentially reinvesting the proceeds from our second quarter sale of private label securities and the late third quarter securitization and sale of indirect auto loans.
On an end of period basis investment securities were $8.3 billion as of September 30.
After annualizing for the securitizations growth in average loans for the quarter was an annualized 1%.
Average commercial &amp; industrial loans grew by 2% annualized.
That growth was muted by the typical seasonal slowdown in floor plan loans which declined by almost $100 million.
Excluding floor plan C&amp;I loan growth was 5% annualized slightly lower than what we've been seeing over the past several quarters.
Average commercial real estate loans grew an annualized 1%.
Adjusted for the securitizations average residential real estate loans declined an annualized 5%.
The $1.4 billion auto loan securitization did not have a significant impact on average consumer loans as it was completed in late September.
However adjusting for that securitization consumer loans grew an annualized 2%.
Despite pricing pressures M&amp;T's commercial loan origination has been consistent quarter-over-quarter.
However refinancing activity has driven the apparent slower rate of loan growth.
From a regional perspective upstate in Western New York continues to be our strongest reason for loan growth.
The average total loans in that region grew by an annualized 5% compared with the linked quarter while the average C&amp;I loans grew by an annualized 8%.
Our Metro region which includes New York City and Albany area and Philadelphia was just behind that with annualized growth in total loans of about 4% and annualized C&amp;I growth of about 12%.
The mid-Atlantic including Baltimore Washington and Delaware continues to experience the softest loan growth with high single-digit annualized declines in C&amp;I and CRE as well as total loans.
This region is where we're seeing the most competition particularly with respect to pricing and structure.
Average core customer deposits which excludes deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Islands office and CDs over $250 000 grew an annualized 3% from the second quarter.
From an end of period basis core deposits grew an annualized 6%.
We continue to maintain a high level of excess funds at the fed amounting to $1.8 billion at the end of the quarter.
The average balance for the quarter continue to reflect the high level of deposits by institutional trust customers early in the quarter and included the portion of the proceeds from the auto securitization that occurred later in the quarter.
Turning to noninterest income.
Noninterest income totaled $477 million in the third quarter compared with $509 million in the prior quarter.
The quarter -- this quarter's figures includes the $56 million in securitization gains I referred to earlier while the second quarter figure includes $56 million of net gains on the sale of investment securities.
Mortgage banking revenues declined to $65 million in the recent quarter compared with $91 million in the prior quarter.
This includes 3 components.
Residential gain on sale revenues were $17 million for the third quarter a decline of $23 million from the second quarter.
The residential origination volumes declined by 41% from the second quarter to $1.1 billion while residential gain on sale margins declined by 48 basis points.
On the commercial side of mortgage banking gain on sale revenues declined by $11 million returning to more normalized levels after a record second quarter.
Residential mortgage servicing revenues grew by $7 million to $30 million in the third quarter.
The increase reflects about 1 month of revenue from the subservicing contract that we entered into during the quarter.
We expect to see in the neighborhood of $15 million of additional servicing fees in the fourth quarter as the revenue from that contract reaches its full running rate.
Fee income from deposit services provided were $114 million during the third quarter compared with $112 million in the linked quarter.
Trust and investment revenues were $124 million a little change from $125 million in the prior quarter.
The second quarter results benefited from the normal seasonal uptick in tax preparation fees.
Turning to expenses.
While we've noted the expected ramp up in expenses for some time now the full impact of those investments in risk management capital planning and stress testing regulatory compliance and technology and operating infrastructure became particularly apparent in this quarter's results.
Operating expenses which excludes merger-related expenses and the amortization of intangible expense were $648 million for the third quarter compared with $578 million in the second quarter.
The linked quarter variance includes the $26 million accrual reversal in the second quarter that I mentioned previously as well as an increase of $44 million in operating expenses.
Contributing to that increase was a $16 million rise in salaries and benefits.
That was largely attributable to first the $7 million related to approximately 500 FTEs brought on board for the subservicing contract at the outset of the third quarter.
Next $4 million attributed to an extra compensation day in the quarter and then $2 million reflecting the ramp-up in staffing related to our BSA/AML and capital planning and stress testing initiatives including some 200 FTEs.
Also contributing to the linked quarter increase was an $18 million increase in professional services largely attributable to $7 million spent for specialized consulting services related to BSA/AML $6 million of additional spending on certain technology-related investments as well as our risk infrastructure and $1 million related to the subservicing contract.
Looking -- if you were to look at expenses on a year-over-year basis the $46 million increase as compared to last year's third quarter is characterized as follows.
About 37% of the increase in expense is a result of our regulatory compliance initiatives BSA/AML capital planning and stress testing including some 250 additional FTEs.
Approximately 24% of the year-over-year rise is accounted for by the subservicing contract.
And finally you will recall that the staff -- you will recall that the staffing hired for our New Jersey initiative during the first 4 months of this year drove about 20% of the increase including some additional 175 FTEs.
We hope you find this detail helpful.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and the merger revenue expenses was 56.0% for the third quarter compared with 50.9% in the prior quarter.
Excluding the reversal of the Wilmington Trust accrual the efficiency ratio would've been about 53.2% in the second quarter.
Next let's turn to credit.
Our credit quality remained strong and in line with our expectations.
Nonaccrual loans declined $49 million from the end of the second quarter and the ratio of nonaccrual loans to total loans declined by 2 basis points to 1.44% as of the end of the third quarter.
Net charge-offs for the third quarter were $48 million compared with $57 million in the second quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percent of total loans were 29 basis points for the third quarter and the year-to-date.
The comparable figure was 35 basis points for the second quarter.
The revision for credit losses was $48 million for the third quarter which equaled the net charge-offs.
Reflected in the aforementioned gain resulting from the securitization and sale of the $1.4 billion of auto loans was an associated reserve release of $11 million.
The net effect was a decline in the allowance for credit losses to $916 million as of the end of the third quarter.
The ratio of allowance to credit losses for total loans increased to 1.44% at the end of September 30 from 1.41% at the end of the prior quarter.
The loan-loss allowance as of September 30 2013 was 4.8x annualized net charge-offs for both the recent quarter and the year-to-date.
Loans 90 days past due excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition was $340 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these $321 million or 94% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Loans 90 days past due were also $340 million at the end of the second quarter of which 93% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
M&amp;T's Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 9.07% at the end of September up 52 basis points from 8.55% at the end of the second quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio under the recently adopted Basel III capital rules is approximately 8.75%.
The Tier 1 common ratio has increased by some 161 basis points since the third quarter of 2012 while our tangible common equity has grown by $1.1 billion or a 20% increase.
Turning to the outlook.
We continue to see the potential for an estimated 3 basis points of quarterly core margin pressure.
The reported net interest margin will continue to be impacted by the levels of excess cash held at the Fed.
Despite the slower loan growth during the quarter our outlook for loan growth remains relatively unchanged.
In addition we may continue to purchase investment securities to round out our liquidity asset buffer.
At this point in time assuming that interest rates stay where they are some continued modest softness in mortgage origination seems likely.
As noted as revenues from the subservicing contract reach their full run rate in the fourth quarter we effectively have a cushion against further declines in total mortgage banking income.
And with respect to credit our year-over-year charge-offs of just 29 basis points are below our long-term average of 37 basis points and we would expect to report a slight increase in criticized assets in our upcoming 10-Q.
Stated simply credit quality remains strong.
Turning to expenses.
We estimate that our current outside level of spending will likely remain elevated for the next several quarters.
As a management team we've concluded that to the extent that we can make the necessary investments and strengthen our infrastructure now it will position us well to sustain our long-term record of relative outperformance.
With respect to capital we've exceeded the 9% threshold for our Tier 1 common capital ratio under the Basel I rules and as we said our current estimate is 8.75% under Basel III and we plan to continue to build capital over the near term.
As you know I am not at liberty to discuss the details of our regulatory matters but by way of an update on the BSA/AML matter we believe the progress to date has been considerable.
And while we have a lot of work left to do we continue to work diligently to create a high-quality BSA compliance program that fully addresses the concerns raised in the written agreement with the Federal Reserve.
Of course as you're aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
With that let's open up the call to questions before which Maria will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify on the NIM outlook of down around 3 basis points per quarter is that off of the 3.61% that we saw this quarter? That's an interesting question.
I guess the way I look at it Matt is I look at it a couple of ways.
So if you think about -- if you were to go back to the first quarter I think we were 3.71% in the first quarter.
So we're also down 10 over the 6 months and there's probably 2 basis points of day [ph] effect -- there's actually some effect of cash.
So if you look at the underlying trend we're coming down about 3 basis points.
So it's hard to answer your question because it depends on the level of cash where your starting point is.
The other way I look at it is assuming cash and obviously days over time are the same.
If you look at it on a year-over-year basis we were down 16 basis points and 11 of that was the -- about a $2.4 billion increase in cash.
So we only had about 5 basis points of compression.
I think that really reflects the 3 basis points we've been talking about offset by the fact that our acquired loan portfolios had been performing better.
So you're going to have to pick your number but I don't think of it as off any particular number because it gets reset with the cash balances.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> It is.
And I guess what I was getting at is the prepayments fees coming down.
Would you consider this quarter kind of a bit more typical in how those fees are or were [indiscernible]? Yes very typical very typical.
I mean as I kind of look back over the last -- I don't know I just glanced at the last 6 7 quarters.
The numbers are between $7 million and $9 million.
So this quarter was $9 million.
The aberration was just last quarter was up 13 from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately obviously the mortgage banking business for the industry is going through a pretty sizable correction both on volumes and on the profitability as we think about the gain on sale.
Has your thought process in terms of the mortgage banking business medium and longer term changed at all in terms of -- obviously your pending deal you're going to build out the agency mortgage business there.
Anything that you're seeing for the environment overall changing how you think about sizing that and the strategic importance of all that? Yes.
I mean the one thing that we see that's on our minds and we've kind of made some stake in the ground I guess on it.
But if you go way back before the crisis and before the new structure and the higher requirements including -- and then including the put back fees and those types of things.
People were happy getting gain on sales between 80 and 100 basis points and the big issue for us is that the business cannot support those lower levels of gain on sale.
So you kind of have to hit a floor and pick that target.
The big question will be is whether the rest of the industry actually adheres to that.
But as you know we tend to focus on profitability.
And at least for the last 30 years or so we've been able to avoid chasing all that stuff.
So I think that's the big question that's out there for me is are people are going to behave rationally.
We've had gain on sale margins come down somewhere around to about 200 basis points now.
And I'm not sure that they can go all that much lower and have it make a lot of sense to be in that -- to do a lot of volume in that business but that's the big change that we're grappling with and so far it seems to be holding up fine around those levels.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just I guess a little question on the competition within the loan market.
You mentioned that the mid-Atlantic is the most competitive among your 3 regions.
I guess I'm curious as to within the competition among the other 2 areas has that competition gotten tougher and are there deals more deals now that you're potentially walking away from due to either pricing or structure than there might have been 3 to 6 months ago? Everywhere or outside of the mid-Atlantic? LLC Research Division</strong> I was actually speaking specifically outside the mid-Atlantic.
Outside the mid-Atlantic.
Yes I mean there's levels of pricing pressures across the board and I -- outside the mid-Atlantic because there it's just -- it's significantly different.
And you can kind of see that in my comments around the volume which are declining because in the mid-Atlantic just as a background I mean there's a point at which we're not really hitting our risk return levels and we just can't use the balance sheet for that purpose.
So for some time it was the life companies.
I think I've talked about that for a while but now you've seen the banks join in -- several banks join in on that.
But if you look at the other areas each of them is a little bit different.
And if I think of like I work my way up I work my way north on the map you got -- in Pennsylvania in the sort of central Pennsylvania maybe Harrisburg area we talked to our customers.
Their expectations for the loan growth is relatively soft.
They're not -- they're really hesitant to do anything on the CapEx front.
They also have a lot of -- how should I say it low confidence in sort of the economic recovery.
So they're not doing a lot of hiring and so what that results in is there's just not a lot of activity but there's a lot of folks actually going after the transactions.
So what we're seeing in that particular market is a willingness to -- for people to take on -- what's probably more important than the pricing pressure there is the willingness to take on the whole credit or larger chunks of credit by smaller institutions and so that affects loan growth.
So as you know I mean if you have a granular portfolio you're going to be less lumpy.
If it goes the other way you're going to have more risks.
If you look at smack in central Pennsylvania there's been actually a little bit of a rebound from the Marcellus shale.
But again not enough to drive what we're seeing around pricing and structure in that case.
But then as you flip your way up to most of upstate New York and our definition of upstate New York we have 5 communities all 5 communities have loan growth.
I would say by historical measures pricing has got a slight downward trend but volumes have held up fairly well and I can't tell you exactly what that is.
There's a manufacturing base up here and people seem to be a little bit more willing to make investments.
And I think your competition is different.
Because of the number of banks you actually choose not to bank up here.
So that's the landscape.
I mean I would say that over the last 3 quarters the pricing issue in any one quarter wasn't all that noticeably more but now it feels like it's gotten pretty heavy.
So hopefully that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a couple of questions on expenses.
You mentioned that those are likely to be elevated for a number of quarters into the future.
And I guess specifically on the FTEs that were added for the servicing portfolio is it your expectation that those will remain relatively static to the number of FTEs you on-boarded? Or do those come down over time therefore reducing the potential expense related to that revenue? Well on servicing those are -- I mean those are tightly managed around the level of the servicing portfolio.
And so we have about an $81 billion servicing portfolio until we're properly staffed for it.
If that were to run down over time you wouldn't need as many staffing but it depends on sort of what comes on the opportunity side there.
That's pretty steady.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes fair enough.
And then on the BSA/AML compliance cost it looks from your comments that you're running at an annualized rate.
Round number's about $60 million a year for those.
Any sense as to how long that might continue? And once you get this investment done presumably you're largely over with that is that a 1 or 2-year timeframe or is that longer? Well Matt I can only comment about -- I comment about all of the stuff because I think what we've decided is that -- and we decided this some time ago that it doesn't make sense to take a long time to make all these investments.
The regulatory environment is changing.
The operating environment is changing as well.
So we figured we would accelerate those changes and try to get a bulk of work done.
We saw this before -- we've seen this before.
We sought after each of our areas of expansion in the early '90s and then again after the all first period.
And now we're seeing it again after we've gone through several acquisitions in about a 5-year period of growth.
What's different this time is we're just deciding to look at the whole thing together.
So I think that makes the expense naturally higher.
With respect to BSA at some point there is a natural level of staffing that's going to make us -- how do I say this have a state-of-the-art program and -- but that will level out but it will take some time for each of those things to happen.
That's why I said over the next several quarters we think it's going to be relatively elevated so -- and then from there each piece is different.
So CCAR is different.
BSA is different.
Overall risk management structure a different animal as well.
So as the expenses come down that will -- it won't all happen at once.
Our next question comes from Keith Murray of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the BSA/AML.
You're talking in the next several quarters.
I mean how -- what inning would you describe [indiscernible] or sort of what percentage of the way you think you're there on that? That's a great question.
I don't know.
So you end up with an issue a weakness in your program but then the reality is that it's not likely just go fix your weakness.
You actually have to -- you have to think about it in a way of building the state-of-the-art best-in-the-industry practices in part because the -- of all trillions of dollars of illicit activity that ends up going through the banking system those folks are ramping up their efforts to try to figure out new ways to get around you.
So at the end of the day we're revamping our whole process and that takes a fair amount of time.
The real question becomes when do you get enough of it done so that you actually have confidence in your own process so that your board has confidence in it as well as the regulators having confidence in it and there's no answer to that question.
You just work hard and you figure out how to keep on course for making sure you have a high-quality product as opposed to trying to get it done too quickly.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then let's assume for argument's sake that the deal with Hudson City closes in January.
How long do you think it will take to get that franchise sort of set up the way that you guys want it to be? Is that 1-year or 2-year build? First I'd say -- first thing I'll say is we haven't spent any time thinking about Hudson City lately.
We've been really focused on the things that I've just talked about.
But I mean if you look at any transaction we've got a pretty strong track record of how long it takes to do something like that.
Wilmington Trust took a lot longer because it was a different animal.
And if you're putting together a thrip sort of regardless of size you would be -- it would be very short order.
And what you'd have to do is kind of go back and talk to a few folks about what's pretty well-documented about what we've done in the past but today we're not -- this is not what we're focused on.
We've got -- our eyes are all focused on the regulatory matters at hand.
Our next question comes from Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean I hate to kind of beat on the expense side again but I guess when I [indiscernible].
You like [indiscernible].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> What was that? You like expenses I know you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know I'm sorry about this.
So the cash expenses in the quarter right $648 million and you mentioned with the previous questions that obviously a lot of the expenditure is BSA/AML the CCAR and regulatory-related stuff that's going to stick around for a while.
I guess is that -- is there anything in there though that we could start seeing some small savings coming out? Or do you think that around this kind of cash basis somewhere around $650 million is where that's going to be on the next couple of quarters? Okay that's a great question.
So I think it's 2 things 2 things.
First of all because of the earlier question and the fact that we're trying to do -- we're trying to get a lot done relatively quickly we're using a lot of outside services.
So I mean that and you can pick your time horizon for how long you're off and running on your own.
So quite frankly a lot of the requirements under CCAR and those things are that you actually -- you're not really in a solid position unless you are doing all that stuff on your own.
To us that's a shorter time frame.
I don't think we're going to see much of a reduction in the next couple of quarters but you can see where you'd see some benefits and not necessarily having all that outside services helping you as you stabilize your processes.
But the flip side is as you think about it and we think about the total expense base if you look back to times when we had decline in mortgage volume we tend to focus very heavily on rightsizing and rationalizing the mortgage business.
But in the way M&amp;T works you actually tend to look at the entire bank.
And what is logical that will need to happen over some time we're still scoping it all out is that while we're spending a lot more on regulatory compliance and the control structure is that we're going to have to begin to rationalize the expenses in other areas right? So in terms of is $648 million our forever run rate? No not at all nor is 56% or 58% efficiency ratio.
That doesn't make sense much to us.
But we've been at this in attacking it so directly that we haven't spent much time rationalizing.
We've just been spending time building right? So there will come a time -- not that far away where we will be able to begin to think about where we can manage the expenses a little bit better.
$648 million is not a run rate.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right I didn't think so but thanks for the extra color on that.
And maybe just to go back to another question on the NIM as a follow-up here.
You talked about prepayment penalties.
Can you tell us what happened I guess on the accretable yield because the prepayment income you're talking about is obviously prepayment on loans and not -- you're not talking about the accretable yield on that? Yes again accretable -- let me just tell you the total interest income on the $4.7 billion of acquired loans that we have was $71 million I think.
The last quarter it was $77 million.
Looked at another way we had 15 basis points of lift in our yield last quarter from the acquired portfolio.
We have 14 basis points this quarter right? So you can kind of see that that's embedded into the 3 basis points of margin for us that we've been talking about and that 14 basis points of lift that we have will go away as those loans pay down.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess if I can take one other shot at it then I'll get back in the queue.
I guess you talked about not being really focused on Hudson City today because obviously getting through BSA and CCAR are primarily the biggest things you're focused on but really -- I mean should I take that to mean that you really can't think about Hudson City until you get the BSA and AML issues behind you? Well yes that's what we're doing.
That's exactly what we're doing right? I mean we're focused on the pool bank first and we're going to get that done and we're going to do it right.
And then from there we'll see what we do with the expansion plans right? I think that's the most effective way to approach it.
Our next question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question on your expense outlook in context of the broader efficiency ratio.
The efficiency ratio has clearly creeped up year-over-year.
And as we think about the next few quarters if expenses stay elevated is there enough revenue lift somewhere to take the efficiency ratio down from the 56% that you posted this quarter or until we see some rightsizing of the regulatory-related expense it's going to stay at the 56% level? I mean I think same answer.
For several quarters our expenses and therefore our efficiency ratio is going to be elevated.
The thing I would say Erika is it's not necessarily and probably not likely a rightsizing of regulatory expenses.
It's the rightsizing of everything else because the regulatory environment is not like a couple of weeks.
It's a total change in the industry and you've got to have a different infrastructure.
So most of our savings are going to come from other areas and we'll probably have increased spending on -- even from where we are on compliance and infrastructure around risk.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my second question has to do with potential growth of your balance sheet.
Do you expect to plow -- just plow the excess deposits into your bond portfolio if loan growth continues to be sort of where your outlook is or rather deposit growth continues to outpace loan growth? Or do you expect to lever the balance sheet some to increase your securities as a percentage of your earning assets? The way I would say it is as always we're profitable enough to be patient.
So we are not done with our liquid asset buffer.
We did a lot -- as you saw we did a lot of work when rates popped up and we were able to get the government-backed securities at the rates of about 3.25%.
Those yields have backed off but our plan is to keep doing that and particularly if there's any increase in rates we'd probably dive in and do more of that.
But once we're at a steady state in terms of for example our liquidity coverage ratio then I think the answer really is is we're only going to do loans if they make profitable sense because we don't really want to weaken our balance sheet and our history around securities is the same thing.
So it will be quite interesting because really what you're seeing on the cash balances is that consumers and businesses are just uncomfortable spending.
So it's all the same issue.
But what tends to happen at M&amp;T is we end up with fairly slow revenue growth but a decent return and a healthy balance sheet.
That is becoming more and more of a concern to me when I look what's the stories I'm getting out of the field and the different regions around pricing and structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just the first question just -- with regarding net interest income hearing your point about a little bit of coordinating pressure it seemed like the period end -- there's a lot of moving parts this quarter so with the loans and securities securitizations whatnot.
So I just want to understand I think period end balances for earning assets look a decent amount higher than earning assets.
So are we at the point where we can expect NII to resume growth from here? Yes.
I think that's kind of what I was trying to say in my comments.
If you take away the swing in the prepayment fees we would have had profit growth of $7 million $8 million linked quarter and that's because of all the additional investment securities mostly.
So I think that's right.
That's what you'll see.
You got some momentum going into the quarter.
And then from a margin perspective those are costing us a bit right? In terms of a net interest margin percentage they're coming down it's coming down a bit other than the fact that we're using cash.
So it depends what happens to those cash balances again.
But the way we look at it is that actually puts some slight margin pressure on you but I still think as I look at it we probably have growth [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay got it right driven by earning asset growth.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> On the mortgage banking side I just wanted to clarify something.
You talked about the $15 million incremental fees from the servicing deal and you talked about expected weakness on what I think was the resi side.
Are you saying that you expect those to pretty much offset each other? I would love to say on the residential side that things have stabilized.
But because I've only seen 2 months of it I'm a little nervous but I wouldn't -- I would expect a decline in resi mortgage probably to be smaller than the lift from -- but it's been early.
It was such a quick ramp down but I'm thinking that the servicing increase probably should readily offset the other side but hard to say right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then on the cost side of just mortgage again.
Related to the servicing deal were those costs already run-rated in the third quarter so we'll see the fee benefit in the fourth but do we get an incremental cost side increase related to the servicing acquisition? No not material -- so yes you're right those expenses were there at the outset of the quarter.
They were there around July 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last last thing for me just regarding -- you did a lot of these securitizations and capital kind of benefit type of transactions this quarter.
Do you anticipate doing much more of that? Or did you kind of take care of a lot of the shifting those several transactions in the third? How are you thinking about balance sheet efficiency and mix going forward? We -- what I would categorize it as Ken is we did most of what the repositioning of things that were on our balance sheet.
What we have left to do is maybe some issuance of unsecured debt and maybe some more purchases of liquid securities to invest that in.
Maybe in the near term we're on a program to do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Sort of following along that line of thinking should we think about the securitizations this quarter as sort of steps being taken right now to reposition the balance sheet or will auto securitization be an ongoing piece of your revenue stream? That's exactly what we're talking about right now.
I mean one of the things that we found when we kicked this off was that the appetite for yield was so high that it made the transaction work.
But having said that at least in my history it's an indirect auto loan you can't get a return on your book.
It's hard to get a return by selling it to somebody else.
So we're thinking about that.
And we'll probably be in much more of a flow-oriented program because a lot of times the appetite for that product is a little bit different than our own appetite just because we have different cost of capital or different return requirements.
So more but we haven't got there yet but we're thinking about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you think about that would the thought process be to securitize every quarter or a couple of times a year? Or how do you think about sort of the ebb and flow of originate and sale? I mean we're just building an infrastructure.
So I don't know we would do enough volume to be doing it anyway near it.
I mean once in a great while at this point I think is probably the answer.
The other thing is if you're going to do that Bob you would see it right away because we would have to originate those for sale right? So unless you see it's actually reclassifying those loans as we book them on we're not there yet to be able to do something like that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one last question on expenses.
I know you've talked a lot about sort of how they're going to be elevated.
Is the build out done though? I mean do they remain elevated at these levels? Or are there further increases related to hiring or other from where we are today? It depends on the topic.
We've made a lot of progress on I believe our capital planning.
I don't know enough to suggest that we're done but we've made a lot of progress there.
We have more hiring to do on the BSA/AML and as we talked to the folks the plan is to continue to hire there.
But I think we also are beginning our efforts on the other areas you know what I mean? So my sense is that -- I don't have it in front of me.
If I could give you -- Bob will probably put it in his annual report.
But if I could give you a regulatory number that number is probably going to go up but I don't think our overall expenses will be going up.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can we come back to the expenses that you're talking about that you've incurred in handling the regulatory issues? And they are going to remain elevated of course for a number of quarters.
Can you give us an estimate of what you think down the road what's kind of onetime the outside consultants that you're using? And I know you've hired a bunch of people and that's embedded and that's going to remain around for quite some time.
Is it 30% of the total numbers kind of the outside people and the rest is ongoing? It's a tough question.
Let me tell you why.
Once I say it it will sound obvious.
But day one when you decide to make your investment it's heavily loaded with outside people.
So and then at times at the end when you're at your steady state there's none.
So I mean if you're at -- say probably we got a high percentage of people and you're seeing us replace as those outside people go away you're seeing us replace with core infrastructure.
The CCAR we're probably be further along.
So that's a tough one.
And then actually most of this management stuff is actually -- we hired Don Truslow.
He's hiring permanent staff so that's all permanent.
If you want to look at it if you want to look at what could be more variable look at the professional service line look at the ramp up of professional services.
Don't just look over the last year.
Look at it over 8 or 9 quarters and you'll see in that professional services line what -- where you have expenses that could move.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then second you've been able as you've pointed out in this quarter to do a little restructuring in the balance sheet strengthens your capital ratios and with a very nice gain to boot.
Last quarter you had some securities gains.
Do you still have those types of opportunities in the next 2 or 3 quarters to help defray some of those elevated costs that you're running into with the regulatory issues here? Well no.
I think the way I look at those -- each of those transactions maybe with the exception of the Visa were net cost to me.
So the indirect auto loans were lower returns but they were above our cost of capital.
And so that was just the least cost way to get the liquidity profile but they're all net cost.
So to the extent that I don't have to do any more of those I'd be very very happy.
So -- and I think as we kind of look at our projection where we will be as I said the only thing we really have left on the balance sheet is maybe more liquid.
And fortunately we have a fair amount of cash to be able to do that today.
So yes I wouldn't expect to see a lot of those types of gains and sale-type activities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Speaking of those auto loans aside from the lower yields that you just mentioned did credit come into your thinking as well in securitizing them about the potential for increased delinquencies or anything? Well related to high quality credit book I mean the long answer is we look at everything but -- including the expenses.
But no I mean that was very high quality.
That's a book we originally underwrote at the time before we thought about the liquidity efforts we were going to keep those loans and so...
Our final question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> We'll wrap it up with a technical question and I have 2 kind of broader kind of scope questions.
If you look at the technical side the other cost in operations was up almost $50 million.
You mentioned several things but it didn't really all add up to the $50 million.
I just didn't know if there was something else beside the topics you've been talking about that's kind of loaded into that other expense line.
Did you adjust for the Wilmington accrual issue? LLC Research Division</strong> I thought that I had tried to do that but maybe that's the difference so...
So I mean that will be a big number and then there was just a lot of little individual things nothing that will really -- no one big item that I can really tell you about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So nothing else transitory that would come out of that number? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the 2 bigger kind of scope as you kind of look back and think of all the increased expenses investment and process that you've had to put in place really 2 things and with this is one what do you think was the primary catalyst? Was it because of your size growing or you're just active in M&amp;A? Or is it just rolling down to smaller and smaller banks getting to be required to be like you said at the best of the industry even though your operations were maybe much simpler.
But what was the catalysts? And then two do you think after all is done do you see improvement in risk management where you've already been one of the best in the industry? But do you see any back end benefit from doing all these exercise that will make you manage the bank differently or better? Yes.
I mean give me one second -- I mean I'm just writing your question down -- the first part I would go at it in 2 ways.
I mean as I said before particularly on technology front and other areas like that we were at a stage where we needed to make a fair bit of investment.
So well we hired Mahesh from one of our counterparts -- I don't know it's almost 2 years ago now right? And we've hired a number of other people because we realized that we needed to build the infrastructure from a larger bank.
We had done 3 4 or 5 acquisitions right recently.
So that was what on our mind the speed of it is clearly the fact that we are about $50 billion and growing.
And the expectation is not only that you've got to be top notch in terms of risk management and controls because we've always been top-notch in terms of controls but you can't do it right now.
So if you take those 2 things combined I think we're probably headed there anyway but it's been accelerated a bit.
The second part of your question as to whether we can do anything better the way I would characterize it is that M&amp;T -- so we've had a great track record around control and part of that is because we're so detail oriented.
We focus a lot on people.
We like to look under the covers of everything.
When we close the books on a monthly basis if moving expense went up the question we ask is who moved.
So we're very very detailed.
What we're trying to do as we get larger is to sort of overlay an addition sort of processes that let us see across the bank as the bank gets bigger right? So I think it's probably a very positive thing.
I think does it justify all the cost we're spending? I don't know how you could possibly do that but will there be some benefit? Yes sure.
Sure there will be some benefit especially when it comes to the risk management environment that Truslow is creating.
I mean I'm really looking forward to that.
I mean that's very very necessary given the larger size of the bank.
LLC Research Division</strong> It sounds like this is still like kind of a stepwise one of those points where you're growing assets on a linear line but all of a sudden your resources have to kind of ratchet up but then they'll level out and you will get the benefit of capacity going forward? Yes.
And then the other thing you realize is that as you -- in that size whatever size we are as a regional bank I mean it's not like -- I mean take BSA/AML it's not like we're going to have a state-of-the-art system that nobody else is going to have.
I mean this is probably the new requirement across the industry just to be in the game.
So we figured we better get that done quickly.
I hate to be behind in that respect.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just lastly the other kind of broad scope was earlier you mentioned the increase in your capital ratios with the delay [ph] you've seen in the acquisitions do you think that that changes your posturing as you go into the 2014 CCAR and how you think about deployment of capital? No we haven't had any change whatsoever in our thinking.
I don't know.
We think it's just prudent to -- at this stage of the game to have more capital and we've talked about whether it's now or down the road as other opportunities come up.
We think it's just a prudent position to have today.
So I've been really pleased that we've sort of gotten ourselves back to the pack and have a much much stronger capital level.
But we don't see any reason to change the course that we're on now of adding capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that's where you're kind of patient at looking at how to deploy it comes into play.
You know that eventually you'll have that opportunity? That's exactly right.
That's exactly right.
So you're thinking about how to do that and a lot of people early in the process assume that well M&amp;T's going to have to have a lot more capital so the return's going to go down.
Our job is to manage both sides of that equation right and we're trying to rationalize it.
As we have more capital certain things have made sense before don't make any sense anymore.
And so far we're doing a pretty good job at it.
We're going to keep working on that trade-off.
There are no further questions in the queue.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's M&amp;T Bank's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website at www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As we noted in the press release M&amp;T's results for the fourth quarter included an elevated level of professional services expense reflecting our continued focus on building out our regulatory risk management and technology infrastructure including our BSA/AML compliance program.
This represents our second quarter in a row where our costs are above what we would consider the natural level required to operate the bank even in what was we might refer to as the new banking environment.
More positive elements in the recent quarter's results included higher fee revenue and continued improvement in our credit capital and liquidity measures.
I'll review a few highlights from both the quarter and the past year after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.74 during the period compared with $2.11 in last year's third quarter and $2.16 in 2012's fourth quarter.
Net income for the recent quarter was $246 million compared with $294 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $296 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Recall that M&amp;T's results for the third quarter of 2013 included gains in connection with our securitization of FHA loans to Ginnie Mae securities which we retained in our investment portfolio and our securitization of indirect auto loans which were not retained.
These transactions contributed $34 million to net income for that quarter or $0.26 per common share.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After tax expenses from the amortization of intangible assets were $6 million or $0.05 per common share in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2013.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the fourth quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $252 million compared with $301 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.79 for the recent quarter compared with $2.16 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity of 1.22% and 14.12% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.48% and 17.64% in the third quarter of 2013.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $673 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 down by $7 million from the linked quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.56% during the quarter down 5 basis points compared with 3.61% in the third quarter.
While average earnings assets increased by some 2% annualized as compared with the prior quarter the mix of those assets changed primarily as a result of the securitization transactions we undertook in the third quarter.
The results included a $1.4 billion increase in average investment securities offset by $1.3 billion of decrease in average loans.
We estimate that this shift in the mix of earnings assets accounts for about 3 basis points of the linked quarter decline in the margin.
The core margin pressure which is primarily the result of new loans coming on at rates lower than those maturing and which is partially offset by lower cost of funds amounted to about 2 basis points and was in line with our prior outlook.
On an end-of-period basis investment securities were about $500 million higher at December 31 as compared with the end of the prior quarter which reflects further use of the proceeds from the third quarter's auto loan securitization to purchase additional liquid investment securities.
Average total loans declined by 8% annualized from third quarter also reflecting the impact of the securitizations as well as a reduction in our portfolio of held-for-sale residential mortgages mortgage loans which reflect the reduced level of mortgage refinancing activity that we're seeing.
Average commercial and industrial loans which were not impacted by the securitizations grew by a healthy 7% annualized.
That growth came from the typical seasonal recovery in Floor Plan loans as well as a fairly strong growth in the mid-Atlantic where C&amp;I loans increased at a 14% annualized rate and in Metropolitan New York -- and in the Metropolitan New York City area which increased by 13%.
C&amp;I loans declined slightly in Upstate and Western New York and in Pennsylvania.
Average commercial real estate loans grew at an annualized pace of 2%.
CRE lending was strongest in Tarrytown Philadelphia and New Jersey while CRE lending in New York City has become more competitive and the portfolio declined slightly.
Adjusting for the auto loans securitization average consumer loans grew at an annualized 3%; while on an end of period basis they grew at an annualized 5%.
All of that improvement was in the indirect auto portfolio while other consumer categories remained sluggish.
Overall I would say that while the marketplace remains very competitive we were able to maintain discipline in the fourth quarter and originated loans at acceptable margins.
Average core customer deposits which exclude deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Islands office and CDs over $250 000 grew at an annualized pace of 8% from the third quarter.
We continue to maintain a high level of excess funds at the Fed averaging $2.8 billion for the quarter reflecting a high level of deposits by institutional trust customers.
Turning to net interest -- turning to noninterest income noninterest income totaled $446 million in the quarter compared to $477 million in the prior quarter.
Of course the third quarter figure included the securitization gains I referred to earlier which totaled $56 million before taxes.
Mortgage banking revenues increased to $82 million in the recent quarter up $17 million from $65 million in the prior quarter.
This includes 3 components: Residential gain on sale revenues were $15 million for the fourth quarter a decline of $3 million from the third quarter; residential origination volumes declined by about 25% from the third quarter to approximately $800 million; while residential gain on sale margins actually expanded about 10 basis points.
Residential mortgage servicing revenues grew by $13 million to $46 million in the fourth quarter.
The increase reflects the impact from a full quarter of revenue from the sub-servicing contract that we entered into during the third quarter.
On the commercial side of mortgage banking gain on sale revenues grew by $6 million returning to more normalized levels after a weak third quarter.
Fee income from deposit service charges were $110 million during the fourth quarter compared with $114 million on a linked quarter primarily due to lower levels of consumer activity.
Trust and investment revenues were $126 million up $2 million from $124 million in the prior quarter and up $9 million or 8% from a year-ago quarter.
Turning to expenses.
As we've noted for some time now we continue to make investments in our risk management and compliance framework in the areas discussed earlier.
We also continue to invest in our technology infrastructure including the new data center here in Buffalo an enterprise data warehouse project which will allow us to centralize and improve access to customer information for both regulatory reporting and our own internal use.
And the new Web Banking platform which goes live this weekend.
As a result our operating expenses have risen meaningfully from what we think -- what we would think of as our normal ongoing expense levels.
Operating expenses for the fourth quarter which excluded expenses from amortization of intangible assets were $693 million up $45 million from the $648 million in the prior quarter and up $81 million from the $612 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The primary driver of the linked-quarter increase was professional services which increased by $42 million compared with the third quarter and by $50 million from the year-ago quarter -- $51 million from the year-ago quarter.
In the fourth quarter about $25 million or nearly 60% of the increase in those expenses was related to regulatory activities and projects for items such as the customer multifactor risk-rating model that was developed for our BSA/AML initiative as well as further development and validation of models used in connection with the CCAR stress-testing framework.
An additional $7 million of the linked-quarter increase was related to the technology infrastructure project that I mentioned.
In total an excess of 50% of the $81 million increase in expenses from the fourth quarter of 2012 could be attributable to the ramp-up of our spending on BSA/AML and in preparation for CCAR 2014.
Looking ahead operating expenses particularly for professional services tied to our BSA/AML initiative will remain elevated through March of 2014 although likely at a running rate below what we saw in the fourth quarter.
While it is difficult to predict the quarterly spending patterns for all professional services as we meet our expected milestones over the course of 2014 our quarterly rate of professional services spending should ramp down further as we progress into the latter part of the year.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as the intangible amortization and then merger-related expenses was 61.9% for the fourth quarter compared with 56.0% in the prior quarter.
And the efficiency ratio for the full year of 2013 was 56.2% unchanged from 2012.
Next let's turn to credit.
Our credit quality remained strong and in line with our expectations.
Nonaccrual loans declined by $45 million from the end of the third quarter.
The ratio of nonaccrual loans to total loans declined by 8 basis points to 1.36% as of the end of the fourth quarter.
And when we file our 10-K in a month or so I expect we'll report another meaningful decline in classified loans as well.
Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter were $42 million compared with $48 million in the third quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of loans were 26 basis points for the fourth quarter improved slightly from 29 basis points in the third quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $42 million in the fourth quarter.
The allowance for credit losses was $917 million amounting to 1.43% of loans at the end of the year.
The loan-loss allowance as of December 31 2013 was 5.5x annualized net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we continue to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that have been marked to fair value at acquisition were $396 million at the end of the quarter.
Of these loans $298 million or 81% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Accruing loans 90 days past due was $340 million at the end of the third quarter of which 94% were guaranteed by government agencies.
Turning to capital.
M&amp;T's Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 9.25% at the end of December up 17 basis points from 9.08% at the end of the third quarter.
Our estimated tier -- our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under the recently adopted Basel III capital rules is approximately 9.01%.
M&amp;T's Tier 1 common ratio has increased by some 168 basis points since the end of 2012 while our tangible common equity has grown $1.2 billion or a 20% increase.
Over the same period tangible book value per share grew by 18% to 52.64% -- I'm sorry $52.64.
Before we turn to the outlook let me take a minute to cover the full year results for 2013.
Diluted earnings per common share were $8.38 an increase of 11%.
Net income was $1.2 billion which represents a 13% year-over-year increase.
GAAP-basis net income expressed as the rate of return on average assets and average common equity was 1.39% and 11.18% respectively improved from 1.29% and 10.96% in 2012.
Net operating income which excluded the amortization and merger-related expenses was again $1.2 billion an increase of 12% from the prior year.
Diluted net operating income per share was $8.60 per share an increase of 10% from 2012 and the rate of return on tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity for 2013 was 1.5% and 18.17% respectively.
Let me turn to the outlook.
Based on our perceptions on where the economy and interest rates are headed our outlook has not changed meaningfully from the one that we offered you at this time last year.
On a core basis before the steps we've needed to take -- that we need to take to come into compliance with the LCR rules we're thinking that loan growth next year will be in the low- to mid-single-digit range maybe closer to mid-single digit if you adjust for the securitizations.
On that same basis and based on where the forward curve is we're expecting somewhat less NIM compression than in 2013.
At present we'd estimate about 2 basis points per quarter.
These factors should combine to produce some modest growth in net interest income.
However beyond our base case outlook we need to factor in the impact from the additional actions that we will take to reach full compliance for the liquidity coverage ratio by the end of the year and we have made good progress on the LCR compliance but we have further actions to take.
For example we need to continue to build our liquid asset buffer of MBS and treasury securities and issue unsecured bank notes to fund that buffer.
We expect there will be limited if any negative impact on net interest income but the reported net interest margin will likely be diluted.
And we'll keep you updated as we take these actions over the course of 2014.
We're expecting mid-single-digit fee revenue growth in 2014 including the benefit from a full year of revenue from the sub-servicing contract.
And as noted earlier expenses will be elevated well into the second half of 2014 but at a rate below what we saw in the fourth quarter.
And our goal is to be well positioned on expenses as we enter 2015.
Consistent with the past we will see our usual seasonal rise in salaries and benefits in the first quarter which was about $37 million in 2013.
The outlook for credit is stable.
There are no signs of turn in asset quality.
With regard to Hudson City our December announcement represents our expectation that we'll be able to meet our milestones for BSA/AML project -- for the project over the course of the year and give regulators time to assess the progress that we've made before the end of the year.
We are very focused on implementing a high-quality BSA/AML compliance program one that will set this industry standard and position us for the future.
Over the course -- of course as you're aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Lastly on a personal note we would like to acknowledge the resignation of our friend and mentor Mike Pinto.
As you know Michael has scaled back to a limited but important role focusing on several key initiatives.
Many of you have dealt with Michael also know that it will be impossible to replace somebody with his knowledge of the industry and of M&amp;T.
Over the past 20 years that I've worked with Michael and over the nearly 30 years that he's worked with all of us at M&amp;T he's helped us to understand what's important in running a bank.
As a result he leaves a cohort of protégés that have absorbed that knowledge thoroughly and who I'm confident will represent him well.
Now let's open up the call to questions before which Jackie will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> René just on the expense side.
Understanding your point that it's tough to predict what consulting is going to look like.
But if we take your comment that the delta has been about I guess $40 million of excess consulting just -- would you expect that we would be ending next year expenses kind of more towards this quarter minus that benefit? Like do you think you'll get through all of the excess consulting by the end of next year? Well it's a good question Ken thanks.
So the first thing I would point out is that the $42 million as you mentioned was this quarter.
We saw a very similar increase last quarter.
So we are very helpless -- we're well above our normal run rate on professional services expense.
I think as we look at the expense base in the fourth quarter in some ways it appears to be a high and we would expect that as we kind of move into the next year that they'll remain elevated and then taper off kind of what you're saying.
But the question is how fast will it come down.
So I think we should see meaningfully lower expenses by the time we get to the fourth quarter but I also think that expenses will likely be able to come down further from there all right? The one thing I would point out is that as we begin to think about the work we have to do over the course of let's say the next 3 quarters on BSA/AML and some of the initiatives that we have to the extent that we think we need to go faster we'll just ramp that up and that would sort of mean that expenses would be higher than we thought.
But I don't think the total investment is really going to change at all.
So that's why I'd say it's a bit hard to predict because we're sort of making sure that we stay on track with our progress.
And if that means the timing of the expenses changes so be it.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And just one other question about the fee guidance.
When you're talking about mid-single digit I'm wondering just against what base you're comparing it to.
And then also a little color on what you think will drive stronger fee growth next year.
I think -- I'll go backwards.
I think it will go across the board.
We've seen nice growth 5% 5-plus percent each of the last 2 years in the trust business.
We've seen okay growth in deposit service charges.
And then again as we look at what we're doing with the mortgage servicing you should get some lift from that coming late in half of the year.
So there's no one particular category.
One of the things I'm curious about is that commercial banking fees were somewhat light this year and I think that's a reflection of lower activity but as the economy picks up that would be another space that I would expect to see maybe recover a bit from what we saw this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last quick one.
Can you just give us an update of where the Basel III ratio approximated? Yes.
It's -- this quarter fully-phased and we believe it is 9.01%.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So again I guess another question on the expense side.
I guess thinking about the BSA/AML investment and the milestones you talked about you know that you guys have set for this year obviously to hit those and then get ready for that resolution and then onto the Hudson City merger.
I guess when you're think about the total investment can you give us an idea of maybe expected percentage of completion if you will by the first quarter second quarter third quarter next year that you would be 50% through or 75% through? Is there any other way to think about how we should be thinking about maybe how quickly that investment may taper off as we go through next year? Well I don't know if I can give a better answer than I just gave on the pace of the expenses.
But I think the way to think about it Brian is that you can't give a measure of completions because it's a dynamic process.
So we work with our teams to build out a process.
We go through that we have those processes validated by outside parties.
To the extent that there's more to work to be done we go in and we fix that and it's iterative it's an iterative process.
We draw leads at some point in the process where we feel that we'll be ready and confident that we can have the regulators come in and take a look and have the time to do what they need to do.
So in my mind it doesn't work like that in terms of percentage of completion.
But having said that we think that our expenses will probably remain elevated for the next 2 or 3 quarters.
And I wouldn't see -- I would see after that that much of the sort of outside expense should be behind it.
The thing to think about is we've also added a lot of folks I didn't give the numbers here but we've added a lot of folks over the course of the year.
And the reason that we've done that is to sort of build our permanent infrastructure.
So as we sort of get through the project phase we will not be dependent upon all of those professional services.
So as you look at where that was I think we spent maybe $134 million on professional services in this quarter and I don't have the number for last quarter but maybe it was $80 million or something.
All right so you can get a sense if you look back at those numbers over time how much they've ramped up and what likely a normal run rate would be without them with all other projects.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And I guess thinking -- you said that $25 million of the linked-quarter increase this quarter there was also -- not only just BSA/AML but there is some CCAR-related -- I mean I guess in the $25 million I guess the CCAR we'd start to see that drop off as we get past the first quarter of '14 right? So is there a way to kind of parse out how much of that CCAR may go away as we look into the sequential quarters? I kind of look at it almost on the same time line as the BSA/AML because don't think about submissions.
Think about building of -- so Brian think about banks and their asset liability process which they can run very routinely every month or as frequently as they want.
We're in the process of building the infrastructure to stabilize that.
So it's not about the submission as much as it is about building a sustainable repeatable process that has as much integrity as your ALM which of course has been around for decades right? So I think that'll -- we'll continue to spend and invest there probably on the same path as what you're seeing on the BSA/AML.
But then again that should taper off particularly in the professional services side.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess just one quick one and I'll get back in the queue.
With the accretable yield that was in the NII this quarter? Yes.
That number I think was $64 million or something down from $70 million.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> $71-ish million.
$71-ish million that's the number I was going to say.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And again Mike Pinto has always been a good friend and a mentor for me and so our prayers are with him and his family.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just go along with me for a minute here.
Let's assume for argument's sake that in 2014 you hit all your targets on BSA/AML you get the CCAR system where you want it.
When you get to 2015 and let's put Hudson City aside what's either an expense dollar run rate level or sort of an efficiency ratio target that you think you can run M&amp;T at for 2015? Yes that's a good way to ask a question Keith.
I mean I just think in terms of the efficiency ratio because we're always either expanding businesses or in some cases adding regions.
So you saw we are at 56.2% both this year full year and last year and that really is a reflection of sort of a new regulatory environment and the building of our infrastructure after the sort of growth spurt that we've had.
Like -- I think we did something like 4 5 acquisitions recently.
So we've always felt that operating the efficiency ratio below that level was something that was very doable.
We've actually run 50% to 55% somewhere in that range for a long period of time.
I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be back in those levels but it's going to get there not necessarily by just saying that you're going to cut some expenses because you do have a new infrastructure.
But think of for example as we achieved whatever time period what we're doing with the BSA/AML and building out the system that's a process that's almost pure 100% leverageable right as we bring in new accounts new volume and so forth.
So one of the reasons why we are so confident in making a lot of these investments across the board and the data centers and all the other technology initiatives is we think over time these are very leverageable and they'll position us well to sort of get back to the same space in the low-50s that we've always operated the institution at.
I feel pretty confident that that's very doable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on capital allocation in the past if you went through a patch of slow loan growth or where the risk reward on loans wasn't so great you could go and buy back your stock sort of at will.
Given where we are in the regulatory world right now when you're in a situation like that what's the new default position of what to do with capital? And as you think about the return ROTE potential for M&amp;T how much has it changed from where you are in the environment? Yes yes.
Over many many years that was always the governor right you could just sort of simply be very disciplined and say "Okay well I don't have use for it because things are very frothy and I'll give back the capital." So I think you're right.
I think in fact I think that's one of the reasons why you see that the loan pricing and now loan structures are so competitive because there's not really an alternative use.
It's also one of the reasons which makes us very comfortable to sort of make these correct investments right? But there is no answer to your question.
I mean you -- I think if we can utilize that capital well and put it in the right places over the course of like last year this year I think that will be one set.
And then pass then our capital ratio is now 9.25% they're kind of getting up there again.
So down the road in the future we'll have to see how that changes.
But one thing is for certain I mean you may see us -- if the loan growth is actually maybe X-minus because we're not really interested in sort of chasing some of the stuff that we see out there today particularly in terms of structure.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> René I just was hoping you could talk maybe a little bit about the loan growth outlook.
I know you guys said low- to mid-single digits and that seems a little slower than some of the other banks are talking about.
I think you also mentioned in your introductory comments that you've seen some of the commercial real estate lending in New York become more competitive.
I'm curious what you mean by that and how you're thinking about the loan growth outlook.
Yes.
I'm pretty optimistic on the commercial side.
There's nothing that we've seen at least from an industry standpoint that suggest that commercial loan growth is slowing.
In fact it's the opposite.
So we've had healthy C&amp;I growth.
I would expect that to continue and easily could be a little bit higher.
We saw some pay-downs in CRE.
So the normal trend to me would suggest continued growth.
And in fact if you kind of look at our numbers by category and in total relative to the industry I think we're -- we've been higher than the industry in C&amp;I we've been maybe a little lower in CRE we've been -- actually had less runoff in home equity right? So we're probably positioned well relative to the industry.
The thing that does bug us a little bit is in some places pockets you just see behavior that quite frankly the loan pricing didn't make sense that -- it wouldn't have made sense back in 2005 before we had the higher capital before we had the higher liquidity.
And in many cases in some of our markets you see it in some of the smaller firms who were not necessarily accounting for those types of things.
So I think that's one factor that could dampen the growth a bit.
But in New York it was interesting.
I mean if you go back maybe a year ago maybe 1.5 years ago all that during that period it was the one place where pricing was very very rational.
There were actually only a few players and the behavior seemed to be maybe the most rational in all of our footprint.
Now you're seeing again the conduits are resurging.
You're seeing insurance companies come in.
And in the past quarter it was a space where there were a lot of examples of just longer structures 7 years plus and very very thin pricing.
So I mean we report what we see and we kind of monitor it.
I felt pretty good actually about the fact that it was a little slow.
We actually because of that we saw some pay-downs right? There were some things we're sort of refinancing out during the quarter in New York City.
So that's what we know.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had one follow-up question.
René if I understood you correctly your guidance for less NIM compression this year than last does not include the liquidity build that you have to do it to be LCR-compliant based on the current proposal? That's correct.
And we did it that way because when we think of what we have to do to meet the liquidity coverage ratio and we look at the income impact they're very -- there's very little if any income impact.
So really what you're doing is sort of putting on a leverage with no impact on interest income sort of take down your printed net interest margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as we think through it how -- is it going to be a gradual building your securities book throughout the year or is it something you might front-load towards the beginning of the year? Right that will frontline.
It will be in the market.
You'll see it every quarter where it'll be relatively steady and consistent.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up question to Keith you mentioned a 56% efficiency ratio or something that is achievable near-term.
Is it unreasonable for us to say that M&amp;T can get -- M&amp;T standalone will operate at 56% for full year 2015? I mean is it unreasonable? I don't -- I mean we tend to think longer-term 2015 is a long way away.
I don't know.
Normal efficiency ratios for us would be low -- in the mid-levels.
But as we're done with our work and we start to leverage that structure and the new infrastructure I'd be surprised if we weren't below 55%.
Below that 50% to 55% somewhere in that range.
It's where we've always been.
And as you think about it and particularly depending on what type of institution that we have one of the things you're going to see again because of liquidity coverage ratio if we were at 56% and if you think of all these things that we've got to do with liquidity that ratio I'm not so sure that that just doesn't come down because structurally right we're a different institution.
So -- but I think we've got a long way to go.
We have a good track record and you kind of see it.
If I were looking at it I'd go back in history and look at where we've been and that's what I'd probably use as my benchmark.
Our next question comes from the line of Jennifer Thompson with Portales Partners.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions on C&amp;I.
If you could give us the line utilization rates or the trend you're seeing there.
And was there anything discernible in terms of the growth in C&amp;I through the quarter? In other words was there ramp-up at the end of the year or was it pretty consistent throughout the quarter? Yes great.
I'll go in reverse again.
There definitely was ramp-up towards the end of the year.
I think most of our loan growth was accounted for in the month of December.
From November 30 to December 31 we had about $700 million of growth in C&amp;I.
And then when we look at sort of -- that's on the balance sheet.
And when we look at sort of the pipeline loan growth -- loan production so new loans that went through our senior loan committee were lower than a year ago but a year ago it was abnormal and they were above average and consistent with any fourth quarter we've -- any of the better fourth quarters we've seen in the past.
So I think that kind of speaks to the idea that I wouldn't expect a slowing of commercial loan growth.
In terms of utilization we are somewhere 57% 58%.
That has been rising fairly consistently over the course of 2013.
So in fact if you look at that trend it's an upward trend it's a straight line.
So again it gives you some sense that the idea that you would expect C&amp;I to start slowing at this point probably doesn't make much sense.
LLC</strong> And that 57% 58% that you're running has it been -- I mean what's kind of the pace -- what was it last quarter? Is it going up a percentage or so every quarter or what? It's gone up a very little bit but very slowly.
So if you go back a year ago maybe that number was -- if it's 58% now maybe that was 55%.
If you go back a year before that it might have been in the low-50s 50%.
Fairly steady slow pace yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.
I guess as I think about BSA/AML I mean I think as analysts yes we've talked about it like we know what we're talking about.
But like what does a BSA/AML best-in-class system actually entail? Is it mostly about technology or is it adding people? Like you get the consulting to build it upfront but when you're done do you end up with a tech system or is it more people? And is there any benefit beyond compliance? Is it really just compliance or is there some other things from a business perspective that it helps you with or lets you do? So Brian again it's a good -- great question the way you phrase it.
Let me do my best.
So first of all it's not just technology it's people heavily people incentive and training people and training people to know the customer.
So if you think about it what we're doing -- one of the first -- one of the most fundamental things is we're building a risk rating system that allows us to be very sensitive and knowledgeable about when patterns change and that might indicate that someone's engaging in some illicit activity or money-laundering.
And to do that equally across all of our footprints and actually through each of the channels in which we interact with our customers.
So to do that on the system side there's a fair amount of just data capture.
And capturing that information is not necessarily just standard information you're trying to make sure that you have access to information that allows you to do a great job of being predictive.
So it's not a onetime thing.
Predicting customer behavior is sort of changing all the time and so these models are relatively complex.
So in order to do that what you've got to do is you've got to identify the information you need you've got to train your customer-facing employees on exactly what that information is and how to go about capturing it.
And then you've got to interact with all of your customers both the existing customers and the new ones through the account opening process to begin to capture that information.
But remember you've got to capture that information in a very accurate consistent way.
So you're not only -- you're not sitting in some back-office somewhere building a computer.
It's touching every aspect of our business and particularly the aspects that address our customers.
And so we've seen this happen before.
We've seen places that have done it in a way where there's been a lot of disruption in the markets to their customers.
We're trying to balance all that and at the same time we're trying to sort of aggressively be sort of best-in-class in terms of having predictive models that will allow us to monitor for illicit behavior.
So if you think about it it's pretty complex.
If you are really really good at systems that would be one thing.
And not good with people I think you'd have a problem.
So the quality of your people the quality of your sales force as well as the technology and the data are all key elements.
Our next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> René on your LCR ratio that you talked about and you may have mentioned it and I kind of overlooked it what's the dollar amount do you think you need to buy in terms of liquid securities to get you up to the level that you need to get to? Yes we haven't disclosed that yet Gerard.
And I think over the course of this year you saw in some of the moves we made particularly in the second quarter and then in the third and I think those began to get us in a good range to be able to kind of meet the requirements.
I think it's fair to say that we still have a fair amount to do at the sort of manageable amount that we would do through the course of the year.
But we really haven't talked about the amount.
In part we're not talking about the amount because remember that the rules of the NPR is sort of not final.
And one of the things that happen in the fall in my opinion was that maybe it seems that it came out to be a little bit more stringent than we were thinking.
So as it stands as it is we have more work to do.
But I think you'll see it you'll get a feel for it as we get to the -- through the end of the first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And stepping back from the BSA/AML the revamping of your systems that you're doing how much did your acquisition strategy over the years -- obviously you've done a number of acquisitions very successfully how much did that kind of complicate the situation versus if you were just a legacy M&amp;T Bank the legacy bank in Buffalo? Yes.
I mean I think one of the -- let me put it this way one of the things that has positioned us extremely well is this philosophy that we've had for many many years that when we do an acquisition our preference would be to do it a simultaneous close and integration right? And when doing that we end up putting everything on M&amp;T's system.
And so from a systems and information standpoint that's helped us very well as you kind of go through the years and think of the transactions that we've done.
Wilmington was a little different in part because we the bank part which was really quite frankly the smaller part was smooth and easily integrated in a very short time period I think that same summer that we did the close.
Whereas if you think of the trust business the wealth and institutional services we were really taking a lot of the quality and attributes that were already existing at Wilmington and bringing the M&amp;T piece into the fold.
So that was relatively new.
So I think you've seen that.
That's taken us longer on the Wilmington side to sort of get to what we would call a steady state.
Having said that particularly over the last 6 months we feel really good.
We feel really good about the work we've done on the control environment and how we've stabilized that.
So if you think of that as 2013 we announced that deal in 2010.
So typically that's longer.
But aside from Wilmington I think the way we've been able to do things to keep them simple to have not duplicate systems probably has allowed us to make these investments and have them be much more productive than not.
So we're not consolidating processing centers.
We're not -- if you remember a bunch of us in 2004 and 2005 when we were complaining about the revenue growth that's actually what we were doing.
We were looking at all the capture centers and we were doing all that kind of work.
This is the third time that we've gone through an experience like this.
One was after the 1991 '92 -- when I joined the bank we were ramping up all the systems we called it future solutions we spent tremendous amount of money there.
We also did the same with the projects I just mentioned to you in 2004 and 2005 and now we're doing it again.
So I think this is what you've got to do every period after you go through a period of growth.
If you don't do it things could get out of control.
LLC Research Division</strong> No doubt no doubt.
Regarding your agreement with the regulators do you think I mean after -- when you finish all your BSA/AML stuff do you think that for you to complete the Hudson City acquisition that that agreement has to be lifted? I think we've got to make progress on getting consumer to that best practice BSA/AML system.
And we've got to allow the regulators to have enough time to be able to say that we've got an adequate system.
Lifting of orders and all that we have no control over that.
And there's a history that says those things take much longer.
So I think we're just really very -- our thinking is really it's about BSA/AML.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally coming back to capital excess capital.
Obviously M&amp;T has demonstrated over the years as being a very good steward on taking care of excess capital and delivering it to shareholders.
Assuming that the regional banks like your own are required to carry the 7% Tier 1 common ratio maybe there's a domestic buffer of 25 or 50 basis points and I would assume that you guys want to keep another buffer on top of that.
Do you think that after you use your money for growth what's left over will -- you will maintain that philosophy or the board will maintain the philosophy that you've had in the past in giving that excess capital back to shareholders? Yes I think at some point that's right.
I mean I think -- and keep in mind our situation we've got to where we are in an efficient manner right? We're 9.25.
And you can see that other institutions are all giving back capital and doing appropriate levels of repurchases and those things.
So it's not as if that has been eliminated from the banking industry.
I think as I think about it right if you think of all the things that we've -- that have been part of our value proposition acknowledging that we sell commodities and making sure that we have a low-cost controlled environment keeping everything relatively simple.
To me now that everybody has to carry more equity those things are even more important to be able to carry that through.
And then at some point in time as you get excess capital yes the only choice you really have is to give it back in some efficient form.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> René I just wanted to go back to the Hudson City just for a moment.
As you mentioned the board has again met in December put out a statement including a comment that it was I believe unlikely the transaction I believe would close by the end of the second quarter.
I'm just wondering in terms of -- you're very focused on developing or building out kind of a best-in-class enterpriser's management system.
And I'm just kind of thinking -- I'm trying to think about whether or not -- are the companies on a dual track system such that they're very much still moving forward in terms of wanting to complete the deal but by the same token you're continuing to move forward in terms of your risk management process? I'm just trying to figure out if -- basically it seems as almost the agreement is becoming -- it has become an agreement in principle such that when the stars align sometime in the future the boards will revisit the transaction and determine whether or not it makes sense.
I thought I had you Todd in the beginning but then I think I lost you at the end.
So I'll go with the one from the beginning.
I think look put Hudson City aside for a minute.
We are among the smallest of the banks that are above $50 billion.
We tend to think long-term.
So regardless of any specific merger transaction we think in order to survive and be around you've got to have a pretty strong infrastructure.
And we also think that as we move forward further and further along what's really happening is that there are a lot of barriers to entries being set up.
So in our mind these investments that we're making particularly in risk management don't relate to any one particular transaction.
So the second part of that would be that once we complete that it's not that we're sort of running to -- I see what you mean by dual tracks now.
From a risk management perspective it would plug into Hudson City and there's no incremental whatsoever associated with it.
The dual tracking is sort of -- I mean at the end of the day the environment's uncertain and it makes sense for them to go down a path to make sure that they have alternatives in the event that we can't sort of do the partnership that we want to do.
So I think that's all that they were saying.
And under the sort of regulatory regime and their particular regulators they've got to continue to make progress to be safe and sound if for some reason that they have to go on their own.
But as we complete the merger yes I mean there's no incremental cost to run Hudson City given what its portfolio and mix are.
And that's what -- why you get a lot of leverage out of these investments we're making.
Research Division</strong> No I can appreciate that.
That's helpful.
I'm just wondering whether or not again you think about the period of time that's elapsed since the deal was initially announced the time where the initial due diligence was completed.
And it just seems like at some point we can get back to a situation where we have to revisit with shareholders and think about the economics of the transaction and whether or not it really makes sense at some point in time.
We reviewed all the economics of it.
We're economic animals.
Really we reviewed all the economics of the deal and I'm absolutely positive that Hudson City did the same.
And it just makes sense it didn't make sense for 1 quarter it made sense.
So putting those 2 institutions together that -- all that value is there.
Nothing has changed at all.
And both parties kind of weighed that out and are very committed to the transaction.
Our next question comes from the line of Sachin Shah with Albert Fried.
My question is about Hudson in fact again.
So I know you're trying to set the foundation here on this AML you reiterated in various ways.
But -- so from that perspective before you can move on and even have the regulators look at the Hudson bank situation and actually approve it and allow it to move forward is there any specific timing on this now relative to the previous statement that you guys put out on extending the termination date et cetera? The only thing that's out there that is public is our written agreement and it kind of lays out everything that we've got to do.
And we've sort of talked about the progress we want to make in terms of this year and we've talked about the spending patterns.
So with all that together you can get a good sense.
I mean sending it down to a specific day is not really how we think about it.
So -- but the timing is you're -- sometime in the second quarter of this year that you're expecting maybe some progress? I don't think I can add anything beyond I've already noted through the course of the call.
Okay.
And as far as Hudson bank so just to reiterate that the commitment is there on both boards to continue as outlined the merger agreement and the amendment of that to basically merge? Is that -- I just want to solidify those comments.
No I mean I think just go back and read the press release because we're all very enthusiastic about doing the transaction each of us individually and together.
There's sort of no question in our minds and I think that was evident in the actions that both boards took.
So we are very enthusiastic about -- once we get all our work done continuing on with that process.
Okay.
Just one follow-up question.
And so aside from this AML situation is there any -- so if you resolve this when you resolve this it's more of a when you resolve it situation.
Because as you said early on you're thinking more long term about the bank M&amp;T which makes sense.
But when you resolve that when you resolve that do you believe there is any other -- there are reasons why the regulators especially the fed would say "You resolved this but now you still can't do this transaction." If you spend any time around these processes I mean really what happens is that you do your best to have both partners have the right intent which we have here.
We think we've got a transaction that creates a lot of value and then you have your application process go through.
We don't influence the application process.
We don't influence future events.
We don't influence the state of the economy as that will happen going forward.
All we know is that the 2 management teams are really committed to producing a strong bank in New Jersey right? That's all we know.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rupert with CIBC Asset Management.
René through the acquisition of Wilmington Trust you guys are required a number of investor managers including a couple of equity stakes and some smaller boutique managers such as Roxbury Capital and Cramer Rosenthal McGlynn.
Can you comment on M&amp;T's strategic vision for the investment management arm of the bank in general and maybe these 2 assets specifically? Well I mean other than -- they are great partners and we're very pleased with every aspect of the Wilmington transaction and the partnership we've got.
But other than that there's really nothing to talk about there.
Is growing boutique investment managers underneath the umbrella of Wilmington Trust something that would be in the strategic plan for the future? I don't think that that's necessarily the way we think about the growth in the Wilmington business is in platforms.
I think that on the ICS and trust business that's a whole different ballgame in the types of clients and services that we're providing.
And then on the Wilmington side really our leverage is all about introducing the strong and talented team that's there to our customers.
So we're not sort of focused on the idea that we would need to have more of those types of relationships in order to sort of provide good customer value.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Herz with the OppenheimerFunds.
René I was wondering if you could talk about the trust preferreds and how you have a $350 million one at 8.5% that I think you were approved to replace with other capital? And then there's like $367 million of other trust preferreds which are currently callable they just became callable this month.
Yes so on the $350 million that you mentioned now when we submitted our capital plan last year we got approval to replace those through -- that approval lasts through the end of the first quarter here.
So it is our intention to do that and we'll probably use that piece as a replacement with a full preferred.
And then the rest of the stuff it depends -- and we've talked about this a little bit some of it is actually closed at very low rates and so it will probably end up...
Right I excluded the low-rate stuff.
I just gave the things that are all over 8% because there are all those floating rate things.
Yes so that's -- the remaining amount that probably not in the near term but down the road as our capital structure firms up we would then obviously look to do something.
But we're not looking to do anything with that sort of sub set that you just talked about in the near term.
Our final question is a follow-up from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> René just a quick follow-up.
So I guess one congratulations on your promotion but to me I'm just wondering if you can let us know I guess what -- with all the additional responsibilities you're taking on now as the Vice Chairman at M&amp;T and now running the wealth management Wilmington Trust lines of business I guess just talk about your expectations and what we can expect to -- how that will impact you going forward.
Well in near term I don't expect that you'll notice any changes.
I think that with regard to the whole announcement I hope you would see with Mark and Kevin and some of the other names that you have heard or will continue to hear that we've got a really really deep bench.
And with respect to Wilmington as I said that team is very very strong.
It's got strong leadership.
And now we've sort of gotten to a place where we've gotten to a very stable environment.
And so I think our forward-looking view of the Wilmington businesses is that we should be able now to sort of kind of go full steam ahead and integrate that into all the opportunities that we have across our core footprint on the wealth side and maybe beyond that with respect to the institutional businesses.
So my job is to help out in any capacity that I can and I'm sure you'll probably hear more about that as we kind of move forward.
And that was our final question and I'd like to turn the floor back over to Don MacLeod for any additional or closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the M&amp;T Bank First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lori and good morning everyone.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
As I noted in the press release we got off to a bit of a slow start in 2014 with lower-than-normal levels of client activity in January and February followed by a rebound in March.
This was the case for both the balance sheet as well as some of the fee income categories.
Nonetheless the quarter was a productive one.
We received a non-objection to our capital plan from the Federal Reserve access to debt markets and financed one of our trough issues with perpetual preferred stock plus eliminating the need for additional amounts of preferred for the foreseeable future.
And we continue to make progress on our BSA/AML compliance risk management and capital planning and stress-testing capabilities.
I'll have further thoughts on some of these topics later in the call but first let me review a few of the highlights from our first quarter results after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Turning to the specific numbers.
Diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.61 for the first quarter compared with $1.56 in last year's fourth quarter and $1.98 in the first quarter of 2013.
Net income for the recent period was $229 million compared with $221 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $274 million in the year-ago quarter.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $6 million or $0.05 per common share in both the first quarter of 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2013.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the first quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $235 million up from $228 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.66 for the recent quarter up from $1.61 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity of 1.15% and 12.76% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.11% and 12.67% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $662 million for the first quarter of 2014 down by $10 million from the linked quarter.
The decline was attributable to 90 days in the quarter compared with 92 days in the prior quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.52% during the quarter down by 4 basis points compared with 3.56% in the fourth quarter.
Although the reduced day count in the quarter had the effect of reducing net interest income it added 2 basis points to the reported margins.
We'd estimate that the actions taken during the quarter to further build our liquidity asset buffer in connection with the liquidity coverage ratio reduced the reported net interest margin by about 4 basis points.
During the quarter we issued $1.5 billion of senior banknotes and began to deploy the proceeds of that issuance into LCR qualifying investments.
Finally the remaining 2 basis points of margin compression represents our estimated core margin pressure which includes the impact of new loans coming on at rates lower than those maturing and which is partially offset by a lower cost of funds.
The average interest-earning assets increased by $1.2 billion or 7% annualized as compared with the prior quarter.
The increase included an $911 million increase in the average investment securities as well as the $213 million or 1% annualized increase in average loans.
Average commercial and industrial loans or those loans to support business operations grew at a healthy 9% annualized rate.
We saw strong double-digit growth in both Pennsylvania and in our New York City Metropolitan region as well as continued growth in auto floor plan loans.
Average commercial real estate loans declined slightly at an annualized rate of 1%.
While the origination activity remained steady we experienced the higher level of paydowns a high proportion of which were refinanced by CMBS conduits or life insurance companies at lower rates or longer terms.
The industry-wide slowdown in the residential mortgage loan volumes has resulted in a smaller portfolio of loans being held in the pipeline for eventual sale and that was the primary factor driving an annualized 7% decline in residential real estate loans.
Average consumer loans grew at an annualized rate of 3% with strong growth in indirect auto loans being partially offset by continued declines in home equity lines of credit as well as seasonal softness in recreation finance lending.
Average core customer deposits which exclude deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Islands office and CDs over $250 000 grew at an annualized rate of 2% from the fourth quarter.
On an end-of-period basis core deposits grew at a much stronger annualized rate of 11%.
Turning to noninterest income.
Noninterest income totaled $420 million in the first quarter compared with $446 million in the prior quarter.
There were no securities gains or losses in either period.
Mortgage banking revenues were $80 million in the recent quarter down $2 million from the prior quarter.
Commercial gain on sale revenues declined by $6 million compared with the fourth quarter reflecting lower volumes of commercial mortgage loans originated for sale.
The impact from those was partially offset by higher residential mortgage servicing revenues.
Fee income from deposit services provided were $104 million during the first quarter compared with $110 million in the linked quarter primarily due to lower levels of NSF volumes as well as lower customer debit card activity.
Trust and investment revenues were $121 million compared with $126 million in the prior quarter.
Some portion of this decline is seasonal and we would expect to see a rebound in the coming quarters in addition to the seasonally strong tax-preparation fees we typically realize in the second quarter.
Turning to expenses.
We continue to make investments in our risk management and compliance framework.
As a result our operating expenses are still elevated from what we think of as our normal ongoing expense level.
Operating expenses for the first quarter which exclude expense from the amortization of intangible assets were $692 million down by $41 million from $733 million in the prior quarter.
Recall that the fourth quarter's results included a $40 million addition to our litigation reserve.
In the first quarter salaries and benefits increased by $35 million reflecting in part the normal seasonal increase that comes from the accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense for certain retirement-eligible employees higher FICA expense higher unemployment insurance expense and expenses related to the 401(k) match.
As in prior years as these items return to more normal levels we would expect the comparable decline in this year's second quarter.
The other noteworthy change from the linked quarter was a $34 million decline in professional services expense.
As we noted on the January call those expenses likely peaked in the fourth quarter reflecting the front-end spending tied to our BSA/AML capital planning and stress testing and other initiatives.
Bob Wilmers offered additional details on our risk management and other investment priorities in his message to shareholders published with the 2013 Annual Report.
That said we would expect our spending in these categories to remain elevated possibly through the third quarter before beginning to show improvement.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related expenses was 63.9% for the first quarter compared with 65.5% in the prior quarter.
Next let's spend some time on credit.
Our credit quality remains strong and in line with our expectations.
Non-accrual loans increased slightly from the end of the fourth quarter.
The ratio of non-accrual loans to total loans increased by 3 basis points to 1.39% as of the end of the first quarter.
Notwithstanding that slight increase when we file our 10-Q in the coming weeks I would expect that we'll report another decline in classified loans.
Net charge-offs for the first quarter were $32 million down from $42 million in the fourth quarter and annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 20 basis points for the first quarter improved slightly from 26 basis points in the fourth quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $32 million in the first quarter.
The allowance for credit losses was $917 million amounting to 1.43% of total loans at the end of March.
The allowance for -- the loan loss allowance as of March 31 2014 was 7.1x annualized net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we accrue -- continue to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that have been marked a fair value at acquisition were $307 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans $291 million or 95% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Accruing loans 90 days past due were $369 million at the end of the fourth quarter of which 81% were guaranteed by government-related entities.
Turning to capital.
M&amp;T's Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 9.45% at the end of March up 23 basis points from 9.22% at the end of 2013.
Our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under the recently adopted Basel III capital rules is approximately 9.22%.
And tangible book value per share increased by 3% from the prior quarter to $53.92 per share.
We were very pleased to have received the non-objection from the Federal Reserve's CCAR stress test on both the quantitative and qualitative basis.
As we noted last month our capital plan for the coming 12 months includes maintaining our common dividend at its $2.80 a share annual rate as well as continued payments of dividends and interest on other regulatory capital instruments.
Turning to our outlook.
As I mentioned at the outset client activity was very slow across the board for both the balance sheet and some of the fee categories in January and February and then picked up significantly in March.
Our sense is that the slowdown was likely a temporary issue.
Regarding loan growth we were pleased with the momentum we had in C&amp;I lending.
We expect continued pressure on pricing and structures in the CRE space.
At this point in time we're maintaining our outlook for mid-single digit loan growth through -- in 2014.
We continue to expect modest ongoing core compression and a net interest margin of about 2 basis points per quarter.
As we've discussed we will see a continued decline in the printed margin as we take further steps towards reaching full compliance with the liquidity coverage ratio by the end of this year.
However those actions will have little to no impact no negative impact on net interest income.
We expect some improvement in fee-based revenue going into the second quarter despite the slow start.
Our outlook for fee revenue growth in 2014 remains in the mid-single digit area.
And as noted earlier expenses will be elevated as our pace of investment will remain high over the next couple of quarters before we begin to see some improvement.
Our goal is to be well-positioned for 2015.
The outlook for credit is stable.
There are no signs of any turn in asset quality metrics.
With respect to our work on BSA/AML compliance we continue to make considerable progress achieving several important milestones by the end of this first quarter.
However we have much more work to do and we're working closely with the Federal Reserve to implement a strong and sustainable BSA program.
I would also note that despite passing the CCAR stress test this year we're also focused on continued improvement in our capital planning and stress-testing capabilities in anticipation of CCAR 2015.
Of course as you're aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let's open up the call to questions before which Lori will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I'm not sure maybe you can kind of let us know on the expense side things came in better than I was expecting I think better than the Street was expecting.
And you talked about achieving many significant BSA-related milestones.
So I mean is there a way you can kind of gauge for us or say is there a -- are you through the fourth inning or fifth inning? Or maybe kind of let us know I guess how much progress or how far along the way you guys are with the BSA/AML process? Yes.
As I said a few minutes ago I think we've made very significant progress.
We do have a lot of steps left to do.
And so to give you to sort of some sense what we're really attempting to do and we've been doing since the last year is we're trying to do a complete overhaul of our program.
What we've done most recently is we've implemented -- we've launched the new enterprise-wide know-your-customer program.
And if you think of that what we're doing what that involves is having -- putting in place your process to identify all the customers' accounts and to collect a more comprehensive view of all the information at account opening and then to begin to use that to go through a new enhanced rescoring process.
And so one of the steps that we've made a progress on to date is we -- as of March 31 all new customers are going through that process and it's a much much enhanced process.
And obviously if you just take that one step we'll need time for -- to see that work and to make sure it's working properly and for all of the regulatory parties to get comfortable with that but that's an example of one of the things we've done.
We still have got a lot more work to do.
We've got work to do on transaction monitoring.
We've got work to do to take a look at our overall policies and procedures.
But we're making really significant progress.
As a -- by way of example in all of our new procedures we've trained over 7 800 employees on the new program in those procedures.
We've increased our staffing.
We are now at the end of the quarter up to 425 individuals FTEs working in the BSA/AML compliance area.
And then one of the biggest things that we've got to do is that once we get comfortable with our new process and how it's working including the risk scoring we've got to go take a look back at our customer base our existing customer base and sort of understand whether our new process would have come out with any different answer and whether there's anything in that book that we would uncover now that we have a new enhanced process.
So it's a lot of work.
We're really pleased that we made the progress we've had to date but we still have a fair bit of work to do.
And so we ask you to kind of stick with us.
We'll keep updating you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's a -- I appreciate the color.
And I guess maybe thinking just one other question on the expense and then I'll get back in the queue.
You did talk about the highly compensated seasonal spike that you have.
The professional services were down $34 million linked quarter.
But remind be isn't there usually in the second quarter that the other miscellaneous expenses usually have sort of a -- sort of catch-up after the sort of lower first quarter? Should we expect that same sort of ramp that we've seen in the last second to first quarter changes in that other expense line? I'm not sure -- well one if you look back pick a period 5 6 years yes you do see the decline in salaries and benefits and you should see a slight uptick in the -- in those categories.
I'm not so sure whether that would be the case of not Brian.
I don't -- I haven't thought about it that much but that would be typical if that helps.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just with that can you actually -- can you give us the actual amount of the stock-based compensation expense here in the first quarter and the FICA food and insurance expense items? How do I say this? The best I can do is because what you have is we've also got other things that are in there as well as sort of health savings account things that are funded upfront.
My sense is somewhere between $35 million to $40 million for all the items because -- somewhere in there.
It doesn't all reverse itself right away because it gets smoothed out over the course of the rest of the year right? But you should see somewhere in there would be the drop I would expect.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You actually have Dan DelMoro on the call.
Matt is not able to hop on.
A couple of questions.
I just want to clarify on the NIM.
NIM should have benefited this quarter from the troughs redemption.
So as we look forward in the printed NIM are you still expecting about the same decline outside of the core -- 2-bit core NIM compression? Yes nothing has changed if I get that right.
I mean to your specific item we did that halfway through the quarter right? So I guess there's still some benefit there.
But I think all of that is really included in our thought that if we weren't adding unsecured debt and liquid securities we'd be seeing about 2 basis points every quarter in compression.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
And just moving onto the fee income you mentioned that most of your businesses bounced back in March after a slow January and February which I'd assume is partly due to some of the extreme weather.
Was there anything else to note that attributed to the weaker activity? And also what's your overall rebound in March as we try to look forward? So that's a good question.
I mean it was very unusual in that almost everywhere you look things were slow.
So whether it'd be in our residential mortgage business things were slow until we got the March then we saw a pickup.
If you go to loan volume in terms of pipeline the same is true.
If you look at our lock box volume which is centered in upstate New York in the Mid-Atlantic they would -- lock box in the first quarter volumes were significantly down which is customer behavior right? If you look at wires handled out of our Western New York wire office those were down significantly in January and February picked up in March.
If you look at debit card transactions those were down I think 17% quarter-over-quarter but had an uptick in March.
So almost every topic you looked at was affected.
So my sense is although I've not seen that before that -- that it was something about the economy as a whole as opposed to something specific to M&amp;T.
The next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just first another follow-up on the expenses.
You talked about the $34 million decline in the professional fees.
Can you just give us a sense of what really drove the decline this quarter? Was it the completion of CCAR? A milestone in the systems? And then when you think out you're saying that we're going to see a decline post 3Q.
What is the milestone that we're going to reach that will allow them to come down once you reach that point? Okay.
Yes sure Brian.
I mean I guess the best example I -- or logic I can give for the fourth quarter was that -- think about this.
In order to be able to get to where we were at March 31 with the new program and onboarding all of our customers most of the significant technology work on aggregating customers and focusing on gathering new information and putting those processes in a lot of technology work is going to happen upfront because you can't begin those people-intensive process until you have your structure built.
On top of that all of the design of the program using the outside consultants and ramping -- the ramp-up of the process what I would suggest one it costs a lot but then you become more efficient at the processes as well.
As you look through and remediate accounts you become more efficient at that over time.
So that's really what was behind -- a big part of what was behind the fourth quarter expenses being so high.
It also -- to your point a lot of what we've been doing over the course of last year on CCAR I think was probably higher than it will be this year.
Even though we'll continue to spend this year that upfront engagement of what we're trying to do to meet the first test was pretty high.
So I don't know if that helps but that's kind of what we saw.
And then I guess as we kind of move forward there as -- we get the bulk of all of our processes in place and we're able to go back and look at how that new process affects our existing customer base you begin at some point to start to move much more towards a normal process of rescreening your accounts and screening new accounts that are coming on which is a much-less-costly process than kind of starting from where we are and looking at your existing book of I think we've got 3.5 million customers and 5 million accounts right? So you have to get through that whole process.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just a follow-up on the LCR.
And when you think about the additions that you've done over the past couple of quarters securities book is up almost up 100%.
And I know you're saying that you'll likely be where you need to be by the end of the year.
But can you give us a sense of the magnitude of how far you think you are in terms of the securities additions? Will we have another step up from here or would you expect to continue at a pace somewhere to what we've seen in the past couple of quarters? I'd say we have got more work to do.
I would say I was very pleased that we got a significant portion of what we need to do done in the first quarter.
So more to do.
And then I guess beyond there it's hard to comment because we've got to see the rule right? So and I think it's hard to suggest.
But I think we're ahead of plan.
And I think with that you'll see a noticeable amount of new volume.
But I think we're ahead of where we thought we would be.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Autonomous.
Just following up on the January and February comments.
Does it feel like all that activity was just lost and March is returning to kind of the run rate you had budgeted on these various metrics? Or are there some line items that could have a doubling-up affect in 2Q for lack of a better term? So stuff that would have normally happened in 1Q getting pushed into 2Q plus than normal volume that you would've expected in 2Q? I'd say I don't know Brian.
I don't know.
All I know is that March looked more normal.
And if -- had February and January looked like March we would have been happy.
But it's hard to predict the customer behavior from here.
Fair enough.
And then going back to the annual letter.
There were a couple of stats on the New Jersey build-out with 171 employees $878 million in loans.
I was wondering if you could just kind of give us a general update.
How's that going how are those lenders progressing and how's the business volume in New Jersey coming in this kind of interim period before Hudson City comes onboard? Yes.
Thanks for the question.
It's going very very well.
About a month-or-so ago Kevin Pearson and I went down and we had a grand opening of our new New Jersey office which means the majority of those folks that Bob listed the 171 people are all located in one particular office.
And they have been generating business and working really well together.
What's nice about it is that but for the fact that we don't have the branches you've got every single M&amp;T business division in that same office working together around leads.
Both loans and deposits have been growing.
I think Bob covered that in his stats in the message.
So we've got a wealth management team set up there.
So things look like it's going pretty well.
And at some point in time if we can get ourselves with a nice branch network behind us it'll be a bonus on top of that.
It kind of reminds me of -- if you've known M&amp;T for a while over the years we've done -- we've been able to do a great deal of work at building a franchise or a community bank in places like Albany or the Hudson Valley before we were able -- ever able to have the benefit of a branch network.
And I think there's something special about that.
It builds a lot of character.
So...
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just the umpteenth follow-up question on expenses Rene if I could.
You mentioned that the expense base will remain elevated through 3Q '14.
So I guess 2 follow-up questions from there.
First is it too optimistic to assume or project that the fourth quarter expense base could go down to the mid-$600 million level? And two because of the staffing additions that you mentioned when you answered Brian's question does the definition of a normal expense base for M&amp;T has it shifted from here and how much has it shifted? Okay so couple of things.
So I guess we were at $692 million in the first quarter and we've got some elevated salaries expense.
But if you start there you're already in the mid-600s right? And then from there you've got to think to the reasons why the expenses are elevated.
So beyond BSA/AML we are making improvements to our overall risk management structure because we're a larger institution.
So while that spending is not as great it'll probably last a little longer.
And we talked about the build-out in the -- of our web banking platform and then investments we're making in that space and in the mobile space.
So I think those will continue for a while.
And then I think we've got one more -- another year of making sure that our capital planning process is really stable.
So my sense is that it's not like a cliff.
There's sort of a process we're going through some of which will slow down at the end of this summer but other things which will continue and will reap the benefits over time.
I think I said on the call last quarter that something -- that the idea that we would be the mid-55s and 50s number and an efficiency ratio was not unreasonable and it was in the long-term that a bank with this added infrastructure because it's all leverageable could operate in 50% to 55% space.
And so that's how I would think about it in terms of long-term and maybe long-term efficiency ratio in those ranges.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And just a quick follow-up question on the LCR.
As I think about the full year should earning asset growth continue to outpace the mid-single digit loan growth that you mentioned? Well with the liquidity coverage ratio that's just going to be the case yes until we get to where we need to be.
So yes.
Which is the sort of issue of what will drive the non-core margin compression but the cost of that is -- there's no negative impact on the dollar amount of NII.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> René just a couple of questions going back to the CCAR program.
Number one as you referred to in your remarks I think that you're pretty much done on the preferred side but I'd like to get a little bit more insight if you could just in terms of the net new capital issuance if you will.
With the Hudson City deal theoretically the equity component moved up to 70% from 60%.
I'm just wondering how we should think about that net new capital issue.
And with the Fed's calculation on capital actions your number went from 62 to 67.
I'm just wondering if you could just provide a little bit more perspective behind that.
Yes the last one is easy.
I don't know.
62 67.
Not my test so I don't know.
I was happy about it.
The way to think about it Todd I guess is that we were going into the test for the first time.
And so that's one degree of uncertainty where all of the data that we've been submitted was going to run through to the Federal Reserves model.
And then the other uncertainty is that we were doing just I think the only large bank transaction included in the stress test.
So there was an amount of uncertainty there.
And how do I think of uncertainty? I think we are very buttoned-down in terms of understanding the risks associated with Hudson City.
We've looked at it a lot and we've looked at it for a long time now.
But when you're taking something that -- an institution that's below $50 billion and you're running information on their mortgages and their data through a centralized stress test again there's uncertainty.
So we just thought it was prudent to -- going into that situation to assume that of the purchase price we would assume that we would finance 70% of it.
There's been no change in the agreement with the Hudson City and the Hudson City shareholders.
That sort of brings me to sort of looking back at the economics.
I mean I think the way that we think about transactions whenever we talk to you about -- we announced that we're going to do a transaction and it makes economic sense.
We are always starting with an internal rate of return that assumes 100% equity financing.
And then we may choose to do 60% in the end or 70% or some other number but what that means is that the return is that we told you upon announcement haven't changed.
There's still 18-plus in terms of returns on IRR.
And then to the extent that we -- we use less equity fine that's a financing benefit.
When we look at -- if we were to go through and use 70% in the transaction as we look at the numbers we still see a high-single digit accretion -- EPS accretion from the deal high-single digit to low double-digit accretion so not much has changed there.
I think the one thing that we've noticed is that credit quality has improved at Hudson and -- which affects the marks in a positive way.
And the other thing is that prepayment fees -- speeds have slowed so it means that there's more net interest income than when we had originally announced the transaction and initial projections right? So everything is held up well.
I think our thought process was to try to be conservative and sort of help eliminate some of the uncertainties associated with putting that kind of a pro forma together and the test for the first time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to be clear as you mentioned this is not unusual that you would go into the deal with 100% equity assumption if you will.
But then with that incremental 10% you're talking more about -- or you still haven't figured out necessarily that incremental kind of 10% financing in terms of the structure that that might take if you will? No.
I think the way I think about it is at the time we get down to -- if and when we get down to that point what we're committed to doing is making sure that our capital ratios are consistent with what we say in our stress test.
And actually for many many years we've made -- we've been very proud to do that with you folks.
We're also doing that with our various regulatory bodies and that's how we're going to manage it to try to make sure we hit what we put in.
I'll note today even today if you look at the pace at which we generated capital in just the first 3 months it's already higher than what we had in our base forecast ending up at 945.
So we're generating capital quickly.
As we get closer to a potential transaction there we'll kind of make some decisions and decide what we need to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just if I could on the mortgage side you mentioned a couple of the items related to the mortgage this quarter.
I was just wondering again just with the volumes coming down in the quarter you guys have actually been able to keep your numbers high relative to the industry in terms of both year-over-year as well as sequentially.
Was there any change in the MSR this quarter? Was there any other color that you could add in terms of just like for example the margin the gain on sale I think you said that it was a gain I think on the commercial side was relatively stable.
But I'm just interested kind of how the MSR was treated this quarter and the margin on the gain on sale or anything else that kind of contributed kind of to a more stable mortgage line relative to the industry? Yes yes.
I mean so in terms of the -- stick to the residential side for a minute.
On the residential side I mean the gain on sale was relatively flat.
We saw about a 10% decline in locked volume.
We saw a 7% decline in application volume.
It matters that it's lower it's a lower decline.
But then if you go to the applications the applications were up right? So that kind of gives you some sense that the activity was weighted towards the end of the quarter but no change really in the gain on sale margins and I don't really expect one.
I think the residential business has been relatively stable.
It's taken a couple of quarters to come down to a normalized level we seem to be there.
What else did I miss in your question? Is there anything else? Research Division</strong> In the MSR? No change in the MSR.
We didn't have any material change in MSR this quarter.
Research Division</strong> So with the application's up if the pipeline has actually improved from year end going into April it sounds like? Yes slightly.
It's up as opposed to what you saw in all of the lagging indicators.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> René it seems like you were pretty negative on the CRE competition this quarter from the -- I think you said the conduit and the life insurers.
What gives that to change? And do you expect it to change and also do you need it to change to get to your I think it was mid-single digit loan growth or is most of that being pulled by C&amp;I? No.
I mean I don't think we needed to change.
I think this quarter -- I'm doing this off the top of my head but in the last couple of quarters our CRE growth has been about 2%.
It was negative 1 annualized this quarter so I don't know.
Maybe that will bounce up and down.
I don't expect us to see significant growth in CRE because of what you're saying in terms of the competition.
And I think there are really 3 things 3 broad things that are happening.
One is what I mentioned and that's people looking for yields so that's why you get the conduits where things are going into securities you get the insurance companies who are also looking for yields.
And so the low rate environment is driving that portion.
Unless any of us expect that to change soon my sense is that it will be around for a while.
I think the second thing is that there's a whole another subset of folks for example who seem to be more aggressive in the multifamily space and I would assume it's because of the risk weighting on the assets.
But relative to 1 year ago or so we see more and more people interested in that multifamily space.
And so I wouldn't expect that to change as well.
I do anecdotally think that it has a lot to do with a favorable risk weighting which in our mind it tends to create risk in some way.
So in those cases we would tend to back away from those things if the pricing and structure starts to fall outside of what we're normally comfortable with.
And then finally the third space is that we get a lot of competition from the smaller institutions institutions that are smaller than us around in the community banking space.
And I'm not sure anecdotally I know that for example as the FDIC rules change and as capital changes we're building those into our models as RMs are making decisions every day.
And it often wonders to me whether the smaller institutions are doing that as quickly and/or whether or not they've got a reprieve from some of the rules that's having an effect.
So how you look at all of those things I can't imagine that we're going to see any change in the pace there.
And so when I think about mid-single digit I'm really thinking about the commercial bank as a whole.
I'm throwing out the resi real estate because that's just really held-for-sale stuff.
And I think we're probably pretty close -- we're probably like 3% growth even with the down quarter in CRE this quarter when you combine C&amp;I and CRE.
The next question comes from the line of Keith Murray of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just on the fee side you mentioned the mid-single digits fee income growth outlook.
What's the base that you're starting that from the dollar amount? Last year.
Research Division</strong> So full year '13.
Yes yes.
You got to throw out the security gains and the nonsense there.
But just those regular categories I think without the securities gains that's what we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> The core fees.
Okay.
And then within the trust fees just curious given the market backdrop what's holding it back there? Is it fee waivers on the money market fund side? What's the right way to think about that line item going forward? Well definitely fee waivers are there but that's in the base.
I mean that's been for a very long time so you've got upside there as rates turn around.
But I think for us we've had year-over-year I think the trust number first quarter was flat.
I think from time to time we have -- what we refer to is nonrecurring fees but I don't think that's the right term.
So for state fees and lumpiness and so forth.
And we were on the downside this quarter.
And so that was sort of led to our comments that we wouldn't be surprised to see it be a little stronger as we move into the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back on loan pricing you're just talking it.
Given Basel III LCR et cetera are you guys feel like you're pricing loans today for the current regulatory environment meaning do you feel like you're ahead of the industry? And how much catch-up do you think the industry has to play and how long will that take? Well I think -- I think if I look at our statistics over many many quarters our pricing has been relatively consistent and we're reflecting the changes in the cost structure in a way that says the returns are a little lower than they used to be.
But the pricing is relatively consistent.
And the way I would characterize it is we're in there with the competition so we don't set the price per se but we compete.
So that's driven mostly by the market.
I think the way to look at it is there are certain triggers that we just don't like to go through in terms of what we're generating in terms of pricing and ROEs.
Having said that the other part of it is structure.
And when I mentioned the commercial real estate process there's been some structural issues people are willing to go 10 years on things that we might go 5.
So I think what's going to slow us down is probably if that continues to change and hit sort of a lower-level triggers.
It's not broad-based but we've seen here and there we could get -- beat out on the price on the CRE deal by 100 basis points.
So if that continues and the number of times that continues goes up I think you're going to see us be relatively slow.
But if you go back to 2004 that's what was going on with us as well.
We had almost no growth particularly in New York City.
And we couldn't quite understand it.
We just felt the pricing was irrational.
And lo and behold you could kind of see that in the aftermath that it was.
Research Division</strong> And just last one I don't know if you had much back-and-forth with the Fed post the CCAR results but just curious if you've got any color on the RWA difference between your [indiscernible] forecast and what the Fed had in their numbers? No I don't know.
But I would sort of just -- I don't know that I would work too much into it and especially given that we were in the middle of our CCAR submission we're combining 2 banks and all of that there's a lot of moving parts.
But I don't have insight into what drove the change.
The next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Really almost everything has been asked but I'm just curious on the trading account and FX gains line that seemed particularly light this quarter.
Was there anything unusual? And on a go-forward basis when you talk about your full year fee income guidance does that kind bump back into an $8 million to $10 million a quarter range? Yes it was down I think there's 2 things that are in there.
One in particular is just movements with the market because it's the other side of some of our postretirement benefits that are there.
But the other thing that's in there is our customer swap business.
And so there was a lot of activity in the fourth quarter.
That activity was just quiet just like everything else right? So my sense is that's very dependent upon rates.
And if you were to see the rates come back down then you get more activity going on there where people try to lock in to fix.
And so that if you look at what's happened recently that would -- either your account would be right.
I don't know about the exact dollar amount but that's what the movement is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the deposit service fees they were obviously down year-over-year.
I know you mentioned NSF.
Is it -- as you sort of billed to the mid-single digit growth and all fee income year-over-year is the expectation deposit service fees are lighter this year than last as this quarter was lighter than last? Or did you get some sort of bounce back on that line? Yes I do think so.
I think that is definitely the case.
I mean if you get away from M&amp;T and you look at national trends there's a change in behavior that people are seeing which is that there are fewer and fewer NSF-eligible type transactions which I guess at the end of the day is a good thing.
Customers said they're really understanding how the process works and they're adjusting their behavior which is probably what you want to have happen.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bob mentioned in his letter to shareholders that the regulatory costs now represents just over 10% of your total operating expenses.
Is that a number that we should kind of keep in mind going forward that it will remain that elevated into the indefinite future? I know we'll spend -- my gut is that we'll spend more this year than we did last year.
And then the question will become how do we -- look what's happened is that the regulation has come very fast.
And so we had to -- we and other institutions have had to react to that change very rapidly.
So you have existing processes in the bank and so really what you're doing is you're adding onto them and not necessarily with the time it takes to rethink everything.
So my sense is just pure numbers it will be higher this year in 2014 but then we'll begin to start looking at -- we'll begin to start looking at how we are able to achieve those things in a more efficient manner and maybe it means that stuff starts to level off or come down a little bit.
But there's still a lot of regulation that needs to get put in place right? So I don't know if that helps.
That's why we actually put it out there.
We track it.
It tells us a lot about what's going on in the industry.
We'll continue to do it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes you also pointed out I think there are still hundreds of regulations part of Dodd-Frank that still need to be implemented.
Can you share with us you mentioned how the securities book increased obviously for LCR what's the duration of your total investment portfolio today? Yes.
If you would ask me that a couple of years ago I think it was about 2.5 and now it's something like 4.7 4.8.
So if you look at that in one sense you could get alarmed by it.
But I think the thing to think about is as we moved from that 2.5 to 4 whatever what we've been doing is we've been -- to the best of our ability as we add those securities we're trying to match it.
So you saw the $1.5 billion which was 5s and 3s right? So that's sort of right in that space.
So I think from a risk management perspective we're probably about the same risk profile.
But cosmetically that number looks a little worse or a little longer.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you guys do stress testing of that portfolio should long term rates rise by 100 basis point how they -- what the duration extension would be and what it does to the value of the portfolio? We do -- I don't know if I have that exact number because we tend to look at the whole balance sheet as a whole right? So we're looking at -- I don't think you're asking so I won't give it to you but it's 100 up and 100 down on NII.
So yes again I don't know Gerard.
I mean we can look at that but I don't know that we would probably publish that because at the end of the day it's sort of about managing the whole balance sheet right? LLC Research Division</strong> Oh yes.
No no I agree.
Unfortunately all the banks are going to -- have to mark that securities portfolio through capital should rates ever rise but that was really the question so -- but I understand looking at the whole balance sheet absolutely.
Yes.
We do do that in our stress test regardless of the fact that because we're under $250 million and $1 billion in assets we have the ability to -- we don't have to do that method.
We still actually run through that whole process of understanding what it would be in that situation.
But I don't think -- I think the way the rules are written you're not going to end up being longer than anybody.
Everybody is going to be right in about the same place.
And it's pretty short actually in total I think.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
M&amp;T over the years has been a very strong manager of their capital.
Now we of course have Dodd-Frank and you've got to carry a lot more capitals similar to your peers.
And with the Tier 1 common ratio today well over 9% even when you went through your stress test I think you came out with about 6.7% stress ratio.
What's the ideal Tier 1 common ratio that you think -- once all of this is behind us you've got your BSA/AML all taken care of Hudson City is on board.
So if we look out a couple of years where is the comfortable level on capital? So the way I think about it Gerard is that -- you describe it well I mean we spend a lot of time understanding the risk in our balance sheet the capital how much it could fluctuate over the years.
And we've done a pretty good job of managing it.
But now the standards are a little different right? So the standard is that not only do we have to do that but on a national level we have to go through the same exact test as everybody else.
And I think the first part of my answer is that we're still going to a place where we want to make sure that those levels are predictable.
Not our own internal models but also the external models.
And so we're very pleased about where we came out going into the test with a 9.1% capital and coming out sort of in the middle of the pack we think begins to show -- fit the risk profile of the institution.
And as we get more comfortable with that I think what you'll see is that we'll start getting right back into the process of making sure that if we have excess capital because it doesn't make sense to make loans we'll have to try to figure out ways to give that back.
It's just sort of where we are in the maturity of the process that sort of puts us makes us reluctant to sort of talk about a particular number.
And I think you'll learn more about that as we go through this year.
And then I think once we go through one more test it will be very clear and we can talk about it.
But you got to -- unless you have transparency there and you're talking about the target ratio when you give back capital when you don't have a use for it it's hard to sort of get -- to be really efficient.
The other thing I would mention is that because we've held off on a number of things we're not exactly very efficient today in the rest of the capital structure that we have.
We still have a lot of sub-debt that's sitting around that is probably not necessary now.
We have a fair amount of hybrids that are sitting around that are no longer necessary.
In the past we would probably start to begin to fine-tune that but as you know the way in which we're able to do that is go through to the next test and then -- right? And then ask for it then.
So it takes a little longer to get there.
I would hope that as we saw on the test that it's starting to tell us that we're getting right about to where we need to be.
And as long as we can continue to perform that way then I think you'll start to shape out -- that answer will start to round out for you.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally I know you guys touched upon it in your -- Bob did in the shareholder letter about the amount of money you're spending on technology and for customer service the ATM machines et cetera the upgrades there.
Can you share with us on the mobile channel that you're using a metric or 2 on how many people are using and some of your competitors for example will give us the amount of deposits you're taking through the mobile channel.
Do you have a similar number available? No I actually don't have Gerard.
And I think today it would be fair to say that that's not a large number for us.
I think the way we're thinking about the use of those types of products and other things you saw for example that this quarter -- you didn't see but this quarter we completed the rollout of our image ATMs in Delaware which is the last place that we needed to have them across our network.
So if you look at all of those things we're trying to figure out how to use those devices to have a lower cost delivery system on the one hand.
And then in places where we do not have a branch network we're trying to figure out if those types of things can actually help us right in the absence of a branch network.
So that's the way I would think about it.
But we're in the early stages and I don't think sort of just the raw numbers would be maybe significant relative to some of the large national players.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one of the follow-up in some of your commentary on commercial lending.
First of all you mentioned you'd seen some strength both in New York Metro and in Pennsylvania.
Just curious if you have any -- if you'd provide some color relative to some of the other markets both Upstate New York and maybe closer to the D.C.
area.
And then any update on your commercial lending utilization rate would be appreciated.
Yes sure.
Let me start at the back of that.
I think last call I mentioned something around 57% 58% utilization.
If I go and just focus just on the commercial bank that number is a little different.
That number last quarter would be about 51.7% and then this quarter would be about 52.1% so just a slight uptick.
And that's probably if you look back over the quarters you don't see much change quarter-to-quarter but you've seen a positive trend overall.
So that's across the commercial bank network.
And then the performance sort of varies by product by region.
So we saw for example in Western New York while we didn't have double-digit growth in C&amp;I we had 4% annualized growth as well as in commercial real estate.
And then if you kind of flip down to Baltimore Baltimore was soft on the C&amp;I side it was down 3% annualized but it was pretty strong in the real estate side which is 7% annualized growth there.
So it's relatively mixed which I think is good.
I think particularly if pricing and competition continues to get frothy what's nice about our model is we can sort of bounce around and focus on the opportunities that makes sense for us and so you'll see a shift there.
So it's pretty varied across the regions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then we constantly hear at least media reports suggesting that mid-sized business and smaller businesses are being a little bit left behind in terms of C&amp;I growth.
Are you seeing any greater demand from those types of borrowers across your markets than you saw perhaps 6 to 12 months ago? No.
We're not seeing any change in business banking but -- no I don't think so.
I mean if you look at the numbers I guess we've been creeping up in the larger space in the middle market companies.
But I would suggest is if you take our whole book we tend to bank smaller companies as a whole right? And so we're probably a proxy for business banking across the U.S.
and we haven't seen much of a change.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First of all can you quantify for us what the preferred dividend will look like going forward after this issuance run rates? I don't know if I can off the top of my head.
I'm willing to.
Research Division</strong> I can follow up off-line on that.
Well no what I would tell you is that it was light.
It was light in the first quarter because we didn't declare the dividend on the new preferred.
So I'll give you that.
And then we will -- maybe we'll put something in our 10-Q so that you guys can see that.
Research Division</strong> So importantly it steps up with this one now starting to pay in the second? Yes yes yes.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> And then second question is René you've got $3 billion of cash on both an average and period end.
And I'm wondering just how do we think about that cash and then also your securities to earning assets ratio? Where do you think it should level out as you continue the LCR when you think about securities to earning assets and whether or not you're just living with an extra amount of cash that may or may not get invested over time? On the cash side a lot of this is driven by our Wilmington business.
And when we first came together that number was about $2 billion of excess cash that Wilmington sort of brought to table.
And now that's as high as maybe $3.9 billion.
And I guess we're still learning about the -- as we go through the cycles on how sticky that is and what's a normal run rate tranche there.
Today we assume it's about $2 billion and we're running higher than that.
So we don't do much associated with those funds we don't really count them in our liquidity profile beyond that.
And the -- I mean you'll see it tick up a little bit and it's just going to stay there.
I don't know how to answer it any different.
We're just about getting to where we should be in terms of securities to total assets but then it won't come down because that's how the coverage ratio works right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was just wondering more if there's just -- how much -- I know you're saying you're still building but you used to have the lowest amount of loans to earning assets highest amount of loans to earning assets now we're growing.
The follow-up question I just want to ask is you mentioned a couple basis points of core of the pricing compression.
In this quarter we had 4 basis points from the LCR.
And so again if we're presuming we're still similar kind of growing into the LCR then does that presume that all things equal we're kind of still seeing the 6 basis points of margin compression until that investments is complete? Yes.
I mean I'm not sure about the exact number but you're thinking about it the right way.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Most of them have been answered but just a couple of ones.
In terms of commentary René about loan growth and competition.
And it sounded like you said some competitors were extending loan terms and the like.
And it just seemed a little surprising to me in light of the regulatory environment that competitors are able to do that.
It seems like regulatory have most banks sort of in a box dictating how much they can grow.
So I'd like to get your perspective on that.
And also I know you run your bank pretty conservatively in the past so I'm assuming you haven't changed LTVs much particularly in the C&amp;I side so if you could just talk about that also that would be helpful.
Yes.
I mean again I'm going in reverse we haven't changed anything in terms of loan-to-values.
We tend to be relatively conservative.
In part we can do that because we're banking for the most part our customers or clients who we've known for a very very long time right and who know us and sort of know what our standards are.
So that's not changing at all.
Your question is a fantastic one.
I've been thinking about it a lot.
I don't really know the answer.
I don't know if everybody is under the same pressure or scrutiny.
But it is surprising what you see.
And quite frankly I think in general with the larger players seem to be much more rational which is consistent with the fact that everybody is going through the same new regulations and oversight and capital testing.
I don't know what to think about the smaller folks and maybe some folks that are outside of the banking industry.
And I think that's a good topic to follow going forward because you've got to wonder whether the risk is controlled or the risk is moving right? But I don't know enough to figure -- to have an answer to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you'd also talked about how conduits and insurance companies seeking yield who were essentially driving some of the price competition in the CRE market.
And clearly the conduits are real estate investment conduits of some sort.
But is there anything that precludes structurally these insurance companies from being a greater competitive force on the C&amp;I side or is that something that could happen going forward? Just want to get a sense for -- if it's just a matter of a yield differential.
Any color on that? Well the way I think about it is those 2 are proxies for investments right and people seeking returns.
So that's going to be driven heavily by the level of interest rates.
I wouldn't expect to see competition on the C&amp;I side because the loan part of that is just one of the things that we do.
All of the ability to do cash management and help them as I mentioned lockbox and all those types of services right are really the core of what we do for those clients.
Lending is just one component.
So it will be very hard for an institution without those capabilities to compete with the large commercial bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just my last question.
I know you've been asked this question about BSA/AML probably 10 different ways so I'll go -- I'll ask the 11th time in a different way.
But in thinking about your expenses there in light of the fact that you went through the stress test and passed and I know you're saying there's more work to be done there but the fact that you passed the stress test doesn't that sort of imply that you're -- not to put a number out there but I will does it imply that you're seeing 90% of the way done simply because if you went that far along in the process then that could have been one of the issues that regulators could have balked at on a qualitative front.
So why would that be the wrong way to think about it and doesn't it suggest that you're being somewhat conservative when you're thinking about expenses related to BSA/AML expecting somewhat of a benefit in Q4? Could we see a benefit before that? Okay.
So this is -- thank you for the question.
First the regulatory environment is not going to change in the next couple of years.
There's still a lot of regulation that's coming out.
And there's been a fast change so it's going to take a time to really embed those processes into what we do on a day-to-day basis.
The other thing is just step back and think about maybe use like asset liability across the seasoned banks right? So those things are extremely mature.
As you see with liquidity coverage ratio we're going to be running liquidity every -- on a daily basis.
We've been there on asset liability for a very long time.
The capital planning processes have to mature as well and that systems people repeatable process right? So you've got to imagine that where we're going to get to is not a place where we're running an annual test or biannual test.
But at any point in time that as we're putting on business in our portfolios that change the risk profile that we're going to be able to see those things real-time.
So that is not a short-term test.
And as some of my colleagues are telling me here I guess the phrase is "The bar is getting higher " and I think that will continue to happen.
I think relative to maybe the 18 that have been through this a couple of years before us we're probably a year behind them in terms of what we need to do.
So a lot of work to be done there.
And so I wouldn't expect to see any slowdown on that front.
Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer Thompson of Portales Partners.
LLC</strong> All of my questions have already been answered.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call to Don MacLeod for any additional or closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of items on the call or the news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
That does conclude the M&amp;T Bank First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the M&amp;T Bank Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everybody for participating in M&amp;T's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our Web-site www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer Rene Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call.
Our results for this quarter were strong and relatively straightforward.
As we noted in the press release we experienced an uptick in customer activity during the second quarter from what had been an unusually slow first quarter.
In addition to an uptick in loan growth the improvement was reflected in our Wilmington Trust fee businesses and mortgage banking as well as deposit service charges.
Credit metrics remained solid and M&amp;T's balance sheet measures continue to strengthen.
Operating expenses remained elevated as we continue to make significant progress on our regulatory initiatives including BSA/AML compliance and our overall risk management activities.
As we usually do I'll start by reviewing a few of the highlights from M&amp;T's second quarter results after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Looking at the numbers diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.98 for the second quarter of 2014 improved from $1.61 in the first quarter but down from $2.55 in the second quarter of 2013.
Net income for the recent period was $284 million increased from $229 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $348 million in the year ago quarter.
Noteworthy items included in the second quarter's results were an $8 million reduction in M&amp;T's accrual for income taxes which followed resolution with the taxing authorities of previously uncertain tax position and a $12 million addition to M&amp;T's litigation reserve which amounts to $7 million after tax.
Prior to M&amp;T's acquisition of Wilmington Trust Corporation the SEC commenced a civil investigation of Wilmington Trust financial reporting and securities filing.
The addition to the reserve reflects our belief that we are nearing resolution of this matter.
We have worked diligently to resolve some of the legacy issues while we continue to build on Wilmington Trust's historic strength both in the Delaware community and in the wealth and investment services space.
Recall that results for the second quarter of 2013 included securities gains and reversal of a contingent compensation accrual that in aggregate increased net income by $49 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.38.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $6 million or $0.04 per common share in the recent quarter compared with $6 million and $0.05 per share in the prior quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the second quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $290 million up from $235 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per share were $2.02 for the recent quarter up from $1.66 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible asset and average tangible common equity of 1.35% and 14.92% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.15% and 12.76% in the first quarter of 2014.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement taxable equivalent net interest income was $675 million for the second quarter of 2014 an increase of $13 million from the linked quarter.
The increase was attributable to higher levels of loans and investment securities as well as an additional day in the quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.40% during the quarter down 12 basis points compared with 3.52% in the first quarter.
During the period we had a particularly high level of short-term trust demand deposit primarily related to our institutional trust business which we had held at the Federal Reserve.
On an average basis the deposit of excess funds at the Fed was some $1 billion higher in the second quarter than in the first.
This temporary elevation of excess funds diluted the margin by an estimated 4 basis points during the quarter.
We estimate that the impact from a higher level of investment securities combined with higher level of borrowings reduced the margin by about 5 basis points and finally the remaining 3 basis points of margin compression represents our estimated core margin pressure which includes the impact of new loans coming on at rates lower than those that are maturing.
Average loans increased 579 million or 4% annualized during the quarter.
Average commercial industrial loans or those loans to support business operations grew a healthy 11% annualized – at a healthy 11% annualized rate.
We saw a strong double-digit growth in greater New York City in Pennsylvania and in the Mid-Atlantic region.
Average commercial real estate loans were essentially flat to the first three months of this year.
As has been the case for the past several quarters origination activity remained steady or perhaps a little better than steady while high levels of paydowns particularly in our New York City region have offset new originations.
The elevated level of paydowns reflects the availability of long-term low cost permanent financing from both bank and non-bank competitors at terms we were unwilling to match.
Residential mortgage loan volume declined an annualized 4%.
Average consumer loans grew an annualized 7% with good growth in indirect auto and recreation finance loans being partially offset by declines in home equity loan.
The $1.7 billion increase in investment securities that I mentioned represents the continuation of our program to build a liquid asset buffer in preparation for the implementation of the liquidity coverage ratio.
Average core customer deposits which excludes deposits received in M&amp;T's Cayman Islands office and CDs over $250 000 grew at an annualized rate of 14% from the first quarter reflecting the elevated level of trust demand deposits I referred to earlier.
Those deposits were lower again at the end of the quarter.
Turning to noninterest income noninterest income totaled $456 million in the second quarter improved from $420 million in the prior quarter.
There were no securities gains or losses in either period.
Mortgage banking revenues were $96 million in the recent quarter up 20% from $80 million in the prior quarter.
The higher revenues in comparison to the linked quarter reflect improved origination activity as well as the sale of re-performing government guaranteed loan.
Commitments to originate residential mortgage loans for sale increased 24% applications were up 27% closings were up 31% and the pipeline which is a reflection of as we move into future quarters was up 18%.
Now recall that the first quarter's results reflected lower-than-expected levels of activity.
The stronger trend seen during the recent quarter likely includes some level of pent-up demand from the first quarter and given that we expect mortgage banking revenues over the remainder of 2014 will be somewhat lower.
Commercial gain on sale revenues in the mortgage space improved by $3 million compared with the first quarter reflecting higher volumes of commercial mortgage loans originated for sale.
Fee income from deposit service charges provided were $107 million in the second quarter compared with $104 million in the linked quarter reflecting higher levels of customer activity.
Trust and investment revenues which include fees from wealth management and institutional trust services were $130 million up from $120 million in the prior quarter.
Net new business and seasonal tax preparation fees were the primary drivers of the increase.
Turning to operating expenses operating expenses for the second quarter which exclude expenses from the amortization of intangible assets was $672 million down by $20 million from the $692 million in the prior quarter.
Salaries and benefits declined to $340 million down $32 million reflecting a return to normal levels of spending from the seasonally high levels incurred during the first quarter.
This decline was moderated by the impact from an additional compensation day in the quarter.
Other cost of operations increased by $17 million from the previous quarter.
The increase is primarily due to the $12 million addition to the litigation reserve that I mentioned previously.
Expenses arising from our work on BSA/AML compliance initiative remain elevated and I'll discuss our spending outlook in a few minutes.
The efficiency ratio which excludes securities gains and losses as well as intangible amortization and merger-related expenses was 59.4% for the second quarter compared with 63.9% in the prior quarter.
The improvement reflects the lower spending levels combined with stronger revenue trend.
Next let's turn to credit.
Our credit quality remains strong and in line with our expectation.
Nonaccrual loans decreased slightly from the end of the first quarter.
The ratio of nonaccrual loans to total loans declined by 3 basis points to 1.36% at the end of the second quarter.
When we file our 10-Q in the coming weeks I expect that we'll report a continued decline in classified loans.
Net charge-offs for the second quarter were $29 million down from $32 million in the first quarter and that is an annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans ratio were 18 basis points for the second quarter improved slightly from 20 basis points in the previous quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $30 million for the recent quarter and the allowance for credit losses was $918 million amounting to 1.42% of total loans as of the end of June.
The loan loss allowance as of the June 30 was 7.5 times annualized charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we continue to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $289 million at the end of the quarter.
Of these 95% are guaranteed by government related entities.
Accruing loans 90 days past due were $307 million at the end of the first quarter of which 95% were also guaranteed by government related entities.
Turning to capital our Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 9.62% at the end of June up 17 basis points from 9.45% at the end of March.
Our estimated common equity Tier 1 under the recently adopted Basel III capital rules is approximately 9.35%.
Tangible book value per share increased by 4% from the prior quarter to $55.89.
Turning to the outlook as I mentioned at the outset customer activity picked up quite a bit from the levels we saw in the first quarter for both the balance sheet and most fee income categories.
Regarding loan growth we're encouraged by the continued or perhaps even improved momentum in C&amp;I lending and we expect continued pressure on pricing and structures in the CRE space.
We continue to expect modest ongoing core compression in the net interest margin of 2 to 3 basis points per quarter.
Beyond the core margin we also expect additional pressure in the printed margin as we take further steps towards reaching our compliance with the liquidity coverage ratio by the end of this year and we continue to expect growth in net interest income for the remainder of the year.
As noted we expect lower mortgage banking revenues over the second half of the year.
This should be somewhat offset by continued growth in other fee categories.
Expenses remain elevated near current levels for the next couple of quarters as we continue to make investments on our regulatory and other operational initiatives.
We currently expect to see improvement in spending as we begin to move into 2015 and the outlook for credit remains stable and there are no signs of a turn-in in asset quality metrics.
Lastly on our BSA/AML initiative we've made significant progress on the series of milestones that are needed to enhance M&amp;T's BSA/AML compliance program.
M&amp;T has substantially improved its governance training and management reporting board's compliance with BSA/AML laws and regulations.
A new 'Know Your Customer' program has been implemented.
All new customers are being brought into the Bank through this new set of Bank-wide procedures customer due diligence and the risk weighting process.
Application of the new 'Know Your Customer' protocol to existing customers continues.
The third-party vendor for a transaction review called for in the written agreement has begun its work and as of the end of the second quarter 571 employees are devoting a majority of their time to BSA/AML activity.
This does not include part-time or contract employees.
Said another way we're working diligently to address all of the issues raised by the Federal Reserve in the written agreement.
Overall of course as you are aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let's open up the call to questions before which Paula will briefly review the instructions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR Capital.
You talked about the expenses as we head to the next several quarters and hen said that you expect some improvements in spending as we head into 2015.
Could you just help us think about to what extent expenses will actually improve or to what extent sort of will you be able to leverage the expense base where it is or how you're thinking about the expense trajectory just for the M&amp;T piece excluding any Hudson City impact? At a very high level I think what I said was what we expect that I don't expect to see any significant improvement in the level of expenses that we're running at in the next quarter or so.
We may begin to see some as we get into the fourth quarter but I think most of the benefit – as we talked last quarter we said we try to position ourselves for 2015.
I do see sort of a natural progression of lower expenses that would come through throughout 2015.
And the way to think about that is in a couple of buckets that a whole group of people that are just sort of thinking about outside of the risk management and compliance base how we can do things more efficiently I talked about that last time.
So that's beginning to get some traction but will take some time to produce result.
I think about – separate from all of the other risk management and all of the other technology type initiatives we're doing if you just focus in on the BSA/AML process for a minute what we've done there is that we have taken some time to build up our core infrastructure I talked about the components of governance and infrastructure that we're going.
So that is all in place and up and running but at the same time we've kept all of the ramped up professional services and contract employees and all of the external stuff that are not part of necessarily an ongoing process but more related to the remediation and getting up to speed.
And to put that into perspective I mean I think now the number has been creeping up a little bit but as I look at where I forecast where we'll be just on BSA/AML spending alone I think I'm pretty comfortable that we'll probably spend over $150 million in 2014 on that number.
So that gives you some sense of how much effort we're putting into the process.
So naturally we are going to do that for as long as it takes to get our work done but clearly we are well above a sustainable level that you would see on an ongoing basis and so that's what gives me comfort that as we get more towards and into 2015 then we get through the bulk of our work in a satisfactory way that you have downward pressure.
And so if you spend $150 million in 2014 once you're all up and running and you've been able to let go some of the external services what do you think that number is in 2016 I mean taking it further out? I don't know I really don't know.
I think that's extraordinary amount of money.
I think we begin to think about all of our risk management spending in total I think that's how we have to think about it.
But what I do know is if you think about the numbers we've been giving you last quarter I think we said 425 employees we had on there we have 571 employees we're just going to have to figure out what that happy space is.
Part of that space is dictated by what we find in terms of the risk profile of the Company or more so in the risk profile of the customers and then we'll decide from there but what I do know is that we have ramped up the portion of the spending that's coming from the outside to help us get through the work.
We'll know more as we go.
And how much of that 150 is internal versus external? I don't have it at the top of my head.
I probably have it somewhere around here but – I mean you look at the professional services huge amounts are in professional services and I think as you think over that's where you should see the improvement.
Okay great.
One other question shifting gears if you think about the efforts prepare for the LCR requirements where are you guys in terms of where you want the balance sheet to be and how much more do you expect to add in terms of high quality Ginnie Mae securities to meet the requirements? We have more to do.
I think that the way to think about it is I would expect what we saw this quarter we wish to see similar quarters going forward we will be done by the end of year there's no question about that.
We did 1.9 billion of purchases this quarter.
I think we did 1.7 billion last quarter.
So we're sort of on track and our thought process is full compliance we're not looking at the phase-in stuff but we're talking about 100%.
Okay great.
And so I guess so we can expect a similar impact to margin obviously goes from how will be the impact on net interest income but on margin from the security purchase over the next several quarters? Yes I think that's very logical very logical.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray of ISI.
Can you just touch on some of the balance sheet positioning that you've done obviously some of which LCR related but is there anything you've done I looked at the decline let's say in one-to-four family loans this quarter in preparation for the pending Hudson City deal? No no we're not doing – we didn't undertake any activities that we don't normally do and you're mostly seeing a runoff in that portfolio and it doesn't make any sense to begin to obtain more mortgages because of Hudson City but there's nothing unusual there.
Okay.
And then just focusing on New Jersey can you give us a sense of if you're losing money there right now how much are you losing and how much easier would your life be or will it be if you have branches and how you've been able to be successful so far without them? I love your question I like it in reverse better.
Let me start by saying that on its own the novel approach is not one where you're going to make money in the outset.
It's just you got to build up an infrastructure you have to have enough identity because you've got all of the infrastructure that you need to put in place but you don't have the customer base and that takes some time and our thinking was that we probably would never really bench it out there doing that on our own without Hudson but we now have gone through that experiment.
First it's really it's been just a pleasant surprise.
The team has worked really really well together it's way ahead of what we would've thought the profitability would have been today and so we've learned some stuff and we're getting traction and being received really well with the customer base.
So I think I may have mentioned it at some point in time we probably have I don't know $802 billion balance sheet in New Jersey and not only that it's very well-rounded with a wealth team and a securities team.
So I think we're off to a better-than-expected start there and I guess if you were thinking about it as changing your mind about the novel you probably would have lower expenses but I don't think that's – that's not where we're going.
We like what we see there.
So the one thing I would talk about in terms of the way we modelled Hudson City is when we talked about expense days.
Those expense days were net of all those hires that we've already made right.
So just keep that in mind right.
So I think you're kind of getting there that the weight of bringing on all those staff is already in our numbers and it's already there.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Rene just to follow up on sort of the medium term expense reduction I just want to understand – to make sure I understand the source is that coming from just lesser outside consultants and technology and that kind of thing or is it coming from the fact that that 571 number of individuals committed to that today will ultimately be a much lesser number? I think the space that I'm focused on given what I do is I clearly see the professional services with the people who are here helping us learn the process or doing the third-party reviews right.
So that's very clear to me.
I think on the staffing side we have to kind of think about that because beyond – remember the way I discussed the people that we have in addition to that we have all those contract folks.
So there's a lot more people actually working on than all those 571 individuals.
We'll just have to wait and see I mean I don't want to – I don't know that we know enough to know what's required to sustain the program but our focus is going to be on sustaining a very strong program.
And if you were to sort of categorize which inning you were with respect to fulfilling the terms laid out in the written agreement where would you say are we sixth inning or later or earlier? I'm not a keeper of that.
The way I think about it is I think that there are a bunch of steps but there are four that I think about.
One is the governance and the infrastructure and since you've known about this that's what we've been building that in place now and we've done that work.
Two is the 'Know Your Customer' and the risk rating model and I mentioned that last time and you might have thought of that as sort of okay we've put it in place so we're done.
That's not the way I think about it.
Now we actually have another full quarter of processing in that way and as we get through that and as we get through the third piece that I look at which is the amount of customers that we remediated in our existing base the more of that that we get through what we do is that as we've begun to make that progress it allows the Federal Reserve to have enough result so to speak to begin to examine our progress.
And then when you think about that process that sort of build examine reframe process it's an iterative process and we learn from it.
And so it's really almost impossible to kind of give you a date it doesn't work that way.
But what I feel good about is we've hit our target schedules we're doing a fair amount of work we're providing a lot of information for the regulatory folks to be able to see what we're doing and test and look at it and that's what I feel good about.
The fourth piece is the look-back and that is being done by an independent party.
From everything we see they are on track but that's their work that they have to get through and then similarly the Federal Reserve has to have time to begin to look at their work.
Alright great and I appreciate that answer.
And just lastly on the margin all of the three or four components that you laid out as contributing to the compression in this period it sounds like they all more or less remain in similar magnitudes at least over the next period is that fair? Yes I have thought about that a lot myself.
It's been a long time and it's all been around two or three but I think that's because the rate environment just hasn't changed there hasn't been a lot of dynamic changes in our balance sheet and there's been no change in the rate environment.
So I think it is moving along.
Don always reminds me that embedded in that is of course the fact that our acquired loan portfolio is getting smaller but that's embedded in the two or three points.
So I think it's just that there's not been a lot of change.
Your next question comes from Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  I guess a couple of quick follow-ups Rene.
On the margin side you did mention the acquired portfolio shrinking you still have the accretable yield number for the second quarter? I do.
Give me a second.
I never give you the accretable yield I give you the whole thing.
So give me two seconds and I'll find it.
What I will say is if you look at that today where we sit if you look at our yields there's about 8 basis points of lift in our yields of our assets from the acquired portfolio.
And then the interest on the acquired portfolio this quarter was $49 million interest income $49 million last quarter it was $59 million quarter before it was $65 million.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
And as far as is there typically around this period of time you actually sort of I guess true-up and reanalyze cash flow.
Is it something you might do third and fourth quarter or is that…? No we do that every quarter we do make a very – maybe a little bit of a heightened effort on the anniversary which you're right is here and we did all that work and now we feel very comfortable with where our cash flows and estimates are we think those are pretty good.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And then I guess just thinking about the impact from the LCR efforts for the quarter the average balances don't totally reflect where the end of period is so could there be a little bit more carryover of compression into the third quarter before you kind of factor in the new LCR type leveraging you're going to add to in the third quarter? So should we expect a little bit more compression from just what you did during the second quarter? You're really good.
So yes I mean I think if you go from 1.7 to 1.9 there's probably – the 200 million is going to have a little bit more of an impact.
I don' know how much that is but yes that's right.
It depends on of course what we do in the third quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Sure as far as how fast you lever that in.
And then I guess just last question relative to where you are with BSA/AML I know you talked about spending $150 million can you remind us kind of where you are so far or what you've spent in the quarter or anything you can kind of give us as to what you spent in the first half of the year? I hate forecasting in general.
You're asking me to forecast like… Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> No no I guess maybe just what you've spent already so actual versus forecast.
I don't know I'll shy away from that.
But I think you kind of get it because we're saying it's going to remain level alright and so we've been spending at this rate already.
That's really where my forecast is coming from.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Got it.
And I guess really the question really is to kind of tack onto that is with that kind of going pretty smooth like you just answered the previous question I guess is the expectation still the same as far as timing for closing of Hudson City given that if everything is on track and continues to kind of move forward do you still expect the closing here in the second half of the year maybe late summer or fall or I guess maybe what's your commentary regarding Hudson City closing? I don't really have any commentary.
What I can say is that as we look at the – continue to monitor both portfolios we still love the transaction and we've got an agreement that's in force until the end of the year.
And other than that we're just working really hard to make sure we do a good job on what the task at hand is and if we do that then maybe there's some possibility that we'll be able to move on and do what we intend to do but nothing's changed Brian.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Rene to your point on the loan growth and activity starting to pickup previously you had talked about full-year loan growth in the low to mid single digits or mid if you adjusted for last year's securitization I believe that was on a period end basis.
Any updated thoughts on that type of growth pattern or growth rate expectation? I don't know I think I wouldn't change it.
I mean so 11% annualized growth in C&amp;I which is an uptick zero in CRE and across the board there continues to remain pricing pressure each quarter is a little bit more structure pressure and I think if you look at what's driving that there's no change in the underlying issues.
So I don't think it's going to – I think it's going to be tough I think I would expect pricing continue to be under pressure meaning that it's not staying at the same levels it will come down.
I look back at a presentation that our commercial real estate folks did and it reminded me we had in 2004 2005 and 2006 our growth in commercial real estate was below the industry and '07 and '08 it was about the same and '09 '10 '11 and '12 we outpaced the industry in commercial real estate growth and in '13 and '14 we're behind.
I think that follows the price of the asset alright.
So we're finding it very difficult in terms of the competitiveness in that space and we're probably making a little bit more progress on the middle market space.
I don't expect that to change.
Okay got you.
And then Rene on the investments that you're making can you just give us kind of an understanding of where the stuff that you're buying in the portfolio what that go on yields are versus your three unchanged average yield of the portfolio which the average portfolio has gone to? Yes I mean almost everything is big almost everything is 15 year in terms of maturity duration and second quarter yield six roughly.
I want to say our borrowings are somewhere around [1.4] (ph) from what we've been doing on the wholesale front.
Okay.
And then just one small one for me when you're talking about expenses being fairly flat from here for the back half of the year are you talking of just the all-in reported number or would you be thinking of extra litigation charge? I guess I'm thinking all-in but I haven't really thought about that.
I mean I guess we were a little elevated because of that.
I don't know you could go either way.
It's sort of the trajectory I guess I'm thinking about.
Okay so it's in this zone with not much change expected from how it came through okay? That's what I'm thinking yes.
And then last little one is just can you quantify for us the magnitude of those government guaranteed loan sales that helped the mortgage line? I mean the problem with that is if you're looking at what you're trying to think about where mortgage banking revenue is going to go I think you had that but I think you also had the pent-up demand.
So what we're thinking is that I mean we wouldn't be surprised to give back half of the improvement that we saw from the first to the second quarter.
I think in combination you're going to see that reduce on the residential mortgage side.
Understood that makes sense.
Thanks Rene.
Your next question comes from Jeffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
I've got another question on Hudson City.
What is the earliest date that could close if everything went perfectly from now onwards what is the earliest that that could close given you've got the BSA/AML work still ongoing? I think everything we've said in the past gives you some sense of what we would hope for but that's all we know.
And then how easy would it be to push that into 2015? I think the thing to remember is to this point that it really apply in this particular case when we come together obviously we are very – we have a disciplined approach to the financials but most of our – when we get together with somebody most of those situations have been partnerships and we only got to where we are today by each time an issue has come up we sat down and asked people what they want to do and what was in their best interest and this is how we got to where we are.
So we would just have to do the same thing at the time.
We have a high amount of respect for the managements there and the Board at Hudson City.
So whatever they need to do is what we're going to focus on first and then what we know is that when and if something happens that's what build a strong partnership.
So we wouldn't even begin to think about that unless we got to that situation.
Your next question comes from Bill [Kokesch] (ph) of Nomura.
Rene can you give a little bit more color around some of the things that you've done upfront to accelerate the integration of Hudson City and make sure that you hit the ground running post close and anything more that you can still do as we look forward from here? I think one of the things about what we would have to do is that it's very much in line with what they are required to do as well.
So you've heard Ron talk about building out things that require the need for commercial lending and the infrastructure there you've heard him talk about setting up an origination for sale with the Fannie and Freddie programs around that.
So they're doing those things those things are perfectly aligned with where we would go anyway.
And then we have obviously the balance sheet and the balance sheet issues of sort of taking maybe off the leverage there.
What's interesting is that's naturally happening as we move forward and so we understand the balance sheet we monitor the balance sheet and we look at changes in those.
As an example we'll all be under liquidity coverage ratio.
So as those types of things affect that balance sheet we're both under the same steps.
Because it's such a large a big part of this merger is repositioning our balance sheet there are very financial type things to do.
All of the stuff that we have to do or I should say a big portion of the things that we have to do outside of the branches are actually being done right and then we would have to begin to think about how we go back and ramp up workaround branches and making sure the controls and things are in place there but that stuff we know how to do and we really have not been focused on that because there's not a long runway to do that type of work should the opportunity avail itself.
So there's not a lot of unique things that you've got to do in this type of a transaction.
Okay.
And following up on some of the comments you made now and what you said earlier about branch density are you happy with where you'll be post close in particular maybe relative to where you are in your other key markets and strategically how you think about that? I mean to think of it let me go back so we have about the same number of branches today as we did say five years ago and we've grown a lot.
So we're always looking at our branch network and we're looking at sort of where the locations are and then more recently look how they are staffed and the technology that we're using.
And so I got to believe that as we get to that space in New Jersey where we have branches what we're thinking about is very much the same way the number hasn't – I don't know that the number would be significantly different we never plan to have fewer locations.
I don't know if that helps but it's kind of what you do you optimize in both not just from an expense perspective but from a location and opportunity perspective.
That's really helpful.
Maybe just finally if you could touch on a bit more of a macro question would love to hear your thoughts on the whole notion of deposits leaving the system as the Fed drains liquidity some have suggested that the regional banks face greater pressure to deposit outflows than those with more of a national presence given that deposits that get withdrawn for investment as the economy grows are less likely to find their way back to the same regional bank while the national players perhaps have a greater chance of seeing those deposits come back can you talk about that dynamic and how you guys are thinking about the eventual kind of liquidity drain and what that means for you? First of all we think about it a lot.
I think that the way I would frame the model is there's a portion of the model that hasn't changed and then there's a portion of the model that might have changed.
So the portion that hasn't changed is that the way you build your deposits base is what dictates how sticky it is when rates rise.
So if you were paying low rate relative to everybody else your customers probably came to you for a different reason.
In that space we have probably I would say I think it's 100 up or 200 up but we have significant runoff in our commercial space because that's just the behavior that we've seen in past cycles but it was higher on the ramp-up here so we expect it to be higher on the way down.
I think we probably have higher rate scenario going up 100 maybe $6 billion of runoff which mostly comes out of the commercial space.
So we're thinking about it quite a bit.
The only unknown to me is this issue of whether people are going to remain more conservative because it was so painful when they didn't have cash before which is a positive.
We're not really taking that into account but it's sort of I think that's the other thing that's sort of on the back of our mind.
So really big issue in our numbers we assume a lot of runoff but I don't know about that theory.
I think it depends on why the customer came to you over the years in the first place and if you were buying deposits I would be more cautious than if you were very conservative in how you got them.
Your next question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
My questions have been asked and answered.
Thanks Rene.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Just a quick question with all of your increase in the securities portfolio over the last couple of quarters can you update us relative to the first quarter on sort of what net interest income impact from a 100 basis points higher rates would be and/or update us on the portfolio duration if that's changed materially from the first quarter? I don't think it's changed materially from the first quarter I think it's about a little shy of 4.3 is the duration of the securities book which is up from years ago obviously because of the size and the [indiscernible].
And then in up scenario we gain I think 4% up 100.
Down 100 I want to say it's like about 2.5% down and that of course is very unlikely scenario given where we are.
Let's hope so.
And then a question you've mentioned several times how strong the C&amp;I loan growth has been.
Many of your regional bank competitors have pointed to higher utilization rates in the second quarter relative to maybe year-end.
I guess I'm curious if you're seeing the same thing and if you're seeing greater C&amp;I borrowing for expansion rather than just sort of trade finance or other shorter-term purposes? I think as I sat with the folks they are talking about usages coming – you're right on its face a lot of our borrowing is coming from existing customers I think with both operating needs and M&amp;A but there is more of an M&amp;A transaction bend to it that more people are getting involved for that reason.
And then we keep ticking up a little it's sort of a steady increase in the usage.
So I mean we're on 52.2 actually last quarter it was 52.5.
So it's actually been relatively flat but if you look at it over the course of the year it's up 2% to 3% over the course of 12 months.
It's kind of like the C&amp;I balances we've seen a little bit more usage slowly every quarter alright a little bit more growth every quarter very very steady but nothing big in one given quarter.
Okay that's helpful color.
And then for my last question at least just going back to the Hudson City transaction it sounds from your comments that even though you have an agreement at this point through December 31 of this year that doesn't preclude that agreement being extended if for any reason you're not able to get the BSA/AML bedded down as rapidly as you might hope? I don't know that you're factually – I assume you're probably factually correct but I don't really think about it that way I just think about putting my head down and making sure we do our part of the whole thing and then making sure that we put our best foot forward and then if we ever get to a situation like that then we'll ask Ron and company what they'd like to do but I'm not thinking about it that way.
Your next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital.
Rene just to go back to that theme of deposits and deposit behaviour a lot of folks have talked about deposit beta as in really thinking about their own deposit beta is in kind of that 50% range 50% 55% deposit beta range and kind of using the '04-'05 period as a baseline.
Now from your commentary it sounds like there's some offsets I mean you were talking about that $6 billion runoff in deposits but the uncertainty also comes from the fact that if rates rise and people and companies and corporate clients start behaving more conservatively and want to maintain deposits maybe you see less of a runoff.
So have you talked about this I can't remember in terms of a deposit beta and what you've kind of factored in in terms of a deposit beta explicitly into your planning? I'm not going to attempt it by numbers but I mean as I hear you say those numbers of 50% it doesn't sound unreasonable over a long period of time but initially it's probably less than that early on.
So it's a dynamic between the first three six months in what you're doing and how you're looking at it and where you eventually end up and I think it's very much driven by what the customer behavior is and their elasticity around pricing.
So I think the only thing that's really different is we assume our models make a lot of sense but the rates have been long for so long and we're coming out of that crisis that the elasticity models are untested almost right.
So this is why it's an area of focus.
So a good question a great framework to think about it.
We have one but we have to kind of test the boundaries around it because it's so much uncertainty there.
Okay.
And then you talked about the Hudson City acquisition you've talked about it quite a lot but you also said one of the things you need to look at is Hudson City's balance sheet and how that comes over and things you need to do as you look at their balance sheet versus yours and what I was really trying to drill down a little bit more on was your preparation for the LCR requirements.
It strikes me that clearly you're planning for the acquisition to occur but on the other hand you have to be prepared in case it doesn't go through.
So how do you think about that do you think you have enough runway as you get closer and closer to closing on that deal that if in fact there's a last minute change that's unexpected that you are prepared to meet the LCR requirements so how are you thinking about that that'd just be helpful? So we've thought about it a lot and the thing that's most important is step one everybody has tons of securities on it.
So it's all manageable within their own balance sheet it's not an issue of bringing it together with M&amp;T's.
And so how you deal with the leverage would change from not having the liquidity coverage ratio to having one and then the severity of the final rules right you've got all the flexibility built into that balance sheet already.
So it just changes how you do the delevering and what you have to keep you have to mark the portfolios to market but that's a different thing unless whether you actually have to exit and sell the security.
So the answer is embedded in their own balance sheet today.
That takes that uncertainty away.
Okay but how about the positioning of your own securities portfolio I mean how are you thinking about that vis-a-vis the securities you would get post acquisition? I mean it sounds like you've maintained or you're going to a liquidity portfolio so it's almost like you're trying to keep a base case where you protect yourself but the expectation is of course the deal goes through I mean you're being conservative in that regard is that the way to think about it or are you kind of really saying okay the deal is going to go through and so the securities come onboard and so that's really not something that you're that worried about so I'm just trying to frame how you think about your own liquidity portfolio in that context? Your questions are great questions.
The answer is those are two separate portfolios.
So M&amp;T is doing with its balance sheet exactly what it needs to do to meet the requirement because that balance sheet is going to be here no matter what alright.
So no thought about somebody else's balance sheet.
As I begin to think about another balance sheet that we and myself and Scott and others have to manage we look at that balance sheet separately and what's unique about that balance sheet is it's very very different from M&amp;T it's got a tremendous amount of liquidity in it.
So the only question is how much of it do you keep.
You see what I'm saying? No that makes sense I mean you just answered my question in that you look at it separately because of that point – no I mean it's fair that was exactly where I was trying to get at they do have a lot of liquidity so do you kind of assume that you're going to get that so you don't need to manage or maintain as much but you said that you kind of look at the two things separately.
So that really answered my question.
So thank you very much.
I appreciate that.
The piece that I didn't give you is that in our assumption we anticipated that the whole thing was going to go away.
So we've got the capacity and the way we thought about it in our framework but thanks for your question.
Your final question comes from Sachin Shah of Albert Fried.
So I just want to understand there's a lot of questions about Hudson City is there anything else aside from these issues that you guys are dealing with that you kind of envision or having or foreseeing for you to potentially close the transaction essentially delaying the completion of this work that you guys need to do? With respect to Hudson City that requires a merger application the same process that you have.
So while we're focusing on the issue at hand which is BSA/AML you have to have a very buttoned-down shop across the board you have to have a good risk management structure just the same things that you would go through with an [acquisition] (ph) so nothing unusual.
Okay.
And just to clarify you mentioned in earlier remark that if and when that time if you buttoned-down the hatches you're trying to complete this transaction do the work that's necessary but for whatever reason it's getting close to the end of the year you're going to have that conversation with Hudson City your intention is to have that conversation with their CEO and the management team to move forward you did mention earlier on that you still love the transaction that is your intent if and when that scenario does come to play is that fair? I've answered that.
There's no more I can provide you to that question which I've been asked three maybe four times.
Okay alright so that is the case your intention is a question of when rather than if how about that it's a question of when rather than if? You're talking hypothetical I'm just dealing with reality.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's program.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today and as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or press release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at 716-842-5462.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to M&amp;T Bank’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) It is now pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Don MacLeod to begin please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria and good morning.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everybody for participating in M&amp;T's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As I noted in this morning’s press release our third quarter performance was marked by relatively subdued revenue trends with modest growth in average loans and a slight decline in fee income coming off a strong second quarter.
That said credit continued to trend positively.
We’re also pleased with our continued progress on our BSA/AML compliance risk management and capital planning initiatives the progress we made during the quarter.
And while maintaining that progress has meant a continuation of an elevated level of operating expenses we firmly believe that those investments will position us well for the future.
As we usually do I’ll start by reviewing a few of the highlights from M&amp;T's third quarter results after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Going to the specific numbers diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.91 for the third quarter of 2014 compared with $1.98 in the second quarter and $2.11 in the third quarter of 2013.
Net income for the recent period was $275 million compared with $284 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $294 million in the year ago quarter.
There were no noteworthy items impacting M&amp;T's third quarter result.
Results for last year's third quarter were benefited by $34 million of after tax securities gains which amounted to $0.26 per share.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $5 million or $0.03 per common share in the recent quarter compared with $6 million and $0.04 per share in the prior quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the third quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $280 million compared with $290 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.94 for the recent quarter compared with $2.02 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible asset and average tangible common shareholders’ equity of 1.24% and 13.8% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.35% and 14.92% in the second quarter of 2014.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement taxable equivalent net interest income was $675 million for the third quarter of 2014 unchanged from the linked quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.23% during the quarter down 17 basis points compared with 3.40% in the second quarter.
The margin compression was driven by the following components.
We continue to build out our liquid asset buffer earlier in the quarter prior to the adoption of the final LCR rule and the delay of its implementation for banks like M&amp;T until 2016.
We purchased $1.7 billion of securities during the quarter funded by $1.7 billion of bank notes issued in late July.
We estimate the impact from those actions combined with the full quarter effect from our actions in the second quarter reduce the margin by about 6 basis points.
During the quarter we had a further increase in deposits from our institutional trust business and which we held at the Federal Reserve.
On an average basis interest bearing deposits with banks including the Fed was some $1 billion higher in the third quarter than in the second quarter and we estimate that this further elevation of excess funds diluted the margin by 3 basis points as compared to the last quarter.
The end of period balance for interest bearing deposits with banks was higher than the average for the quarter indicating further negative impact on the margin in the fourth quarter but a slight positive impact on net interest income.
The additional accrual day in the quarter contributed to 1 basis point to the compression.
The remainder of the margin compression is attributable to the impact of new loans coming on at rates lower than those maturing as well as the lower impact from ancillary items such as interest from the repayment of non-accrual loans and recapture of deferred loan fees which in aggregate were somewhat lower than we would typically expect.
Our outlook for future core margin compression is about 4 basis points per quarter.
Average loans increased by $420 million or 3% annualized compared with the prior quarter.
On that same basis average commercial and industrial loans were down on an annualized 2% reflecting the usual seasonal contraction of loans to auto dealers to finance the inventories.
Average commercial real estate loans increased by about 5% annualized reflecting an improvement from the sluggish growth in the first half of the year.
The improvement was driven by both a higher level of originations as well as lower pay downs on existing loans.
Our residential mortgage loan volumes declined an annualized 5% reflecting the natural pace of principal amortization of the portfolio that the held for sale pipeline was flat.
And average consumer loans grew an annualized 10% reflecting growth in indirect auto and recreation finance loans.
Overall end of period loans grew 5% annualized as softness in July and August was overcome by stronger results in September.
We will expect the seasonal recovery in floor plan activity to be a tailwind in the fourth quarter.
Average core customer deposits which exclude deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Islands office and CDs over $250 000 increased an annualized 7% from the second quarter reflecting the elevated level of trust deposits I referenced earlier.
Turning to non interest income non interest income totaled $451 million in the third quarter compared with $456 million in the prior quarter.
There were no securities gains or losses in either period.
Mortgage banking revenues were $94 million in the third quarter compared with $96 million in the prior quarter lower revenues associated with loans sales activities were partially offset by $4 million increase in servicing income.
Commitments to originate residential mortgage loans for sale declined by about 3% while the gain on sale margins was effectively unchanged.
The pipeline for mortgage loan applications was down at the end of the quarter.
Fee income from deposit service charges provided were $110 million during the third quarter compared with $107 million in the linked quarter reflecting higher levels of customer activity.
Trust and investment revenues which include fees from wealth management and institutional trust services were $129 million compared with $130 million in the prior quarter; a $4 million decline in seasonal tax preparation fees from the second quarter was mostly offset by new business.
Credit related fees which are included in other revenues from operations were impacted by the soft lending environment early in the quarter and were down by $5 million from what was a comparatively strong second quarter.
Turing to expenses operating expenses for the third quarter which excluded expenses from the amortization of intangible assets were $672 million unchanged from the prior quarter.
Salary and benefits were $349 million up $9 million from $340 million in the second quarter about $5 million of the increase came from one additional compensation day in the quarter.
The remainder of the increase related to higher BSA/AML staffing as well as higher incentive compensation.
Other cost of operation declined by $7 million from the previous quarter.
Legal expenses decline from the second quarter which included $12 million addition to the litigation reserve professional services including outside consultants were flat quarter-over-quarter.
The efficiency ratio which excludes intangible amortization 59.7% for the third quarter compared with 59.4% in the prior quarter.
The next list turn to credit.
Credit quality remained strong and in line with our expectations.
Nonaccrual loans declined further from the end of the second quarter that ratio of nonaccrual loans to total loans declined by 7 basis points to 1.29% as of the end of the third quarter.
Net charge-offs for the third quarter were $28 million $1 million lower than in the second quarter and annualized net charge-offs as a percent of total loans were 17 basis points for the third quarter improved slightly from 18 basis points in the previous quarter.
The revision for credit losses was $29 million for the recent quarter and the allowance for credit losses was $919 million amounting to 1.40% of the total loans as of end of September.
The loan loss allowance as of September 30 was 7.7 times year-to-date annualized net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we continued to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at the acquisition were $313 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these $265 million or 85% are guaranteed by government-related entities.
Turning to capital M&amp;T's Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 9.77% at the end of September up 14 basis points from 9.64% at the end of the June.
Our estimated common Tier 1 ratio under the recently adopted Basel III capital rules is approximately 9.52%.
Turning to the outlook as is our usual practice we will update you on our outlook for 2015 on the January call.
However we have a limited number of observations regarding the reminder of 2014 while our view of loan growth is largely unchanged lending environment remains very difficult particularly on the commercial side.
Where we primarily had been seeing pressure on rates and spreads we are also now beginning to see further relaxation of structures including longer loan tenures lower cap rates and a limited or non- recourse and personal guarantees all of which tends to keep us on the side line.
We were pleased with our progress for the plans during the quarter with the rules for implementation of liquidity coverage ratio now finalized we will be opportunistic in completing any remaining build out of our liquid asset buffer before the end of 2015.
We expect continued core margin pressure of about 4 basis points as we enter into the fourth quarter and addition to full quarter impact of the actions we took in the third quarter towards the LCR compliance combined with higher end of period trust deposits held at the Fed will further reduce the margin but not net interest income.
We remain focused closely on investing in our infrastructure with an eye toward improving our efficiency ratio in the longer term once the pace of those investments begin to trend downward.
Since early in 2013 M&amp;T has been working due diligently to address the concern identified by the Federal Reserve with regard to a M&amp;T BSA/AML and other compliance initiatives and we are very much on track with the expenditure trajectory that we outlined for you back in January of this year and that elevated spending has produced good results.
We have made significant progress in-lined with the plans and milestones that we set for ourselves.
Of course as you are aware of our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties various assumptions regarding national regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events another micro economic factors which made different materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let's open the call to question before which Maria will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from the line of Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Good morning Don.
René I guess can you let us know I guess what are the milestones that you’ve hit so far with BSA and AML and what are sort of the next big milestones that you have on the checklist? I mean I think the way I think about it in terms of the BSA/AML I mean there is a number of things that we have been able to achieve and as I said I think we are sort of on track with the commitments we have made.
But to run through them you know first on the list was improving M&amp;T's risk governance our infrastructure and then all of the training associated with our frontline employees.
Second was that we build a comprehensive risk rating model to better identify potential money laundering risk and that's been up and running since this spring and so there has been several months to kind of work the kinks out of there and show how that's working for all the new customers that we have on-boarded since those dates.
Third we have sort of begun a bank wide effort to update our customer information to better understand our customers and how they plan to use the product and services and we have made substantial progress there.
Of course that has been going on for almost a year now maybe just over a year.
We have made some substantial progress there.
Fourth was we improved our process for monitoring and reporting suspicious activity reporting and then finally we have sort of implemented a review by a third party to sort of determine whether certain transactions undertaken in the past by our customers were properly identified and reported and of course that's ongoing.
So the way I would characterize it is that we really have made a lot of progress.
We feel that we are on track with all the requirements that were outlined in the written agreement that and the plans that we conveyed to our regulators but having said that of course as is typical for these types of things they take a long time and there is a fair amount of work that obviously would go on beyond the end of 2014 and 2015 to meet the full requirements but at the same time we believe our progress to date has been substantial.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks for that and I guess thinking about what you need to do going forward and what's been done I think it mean in order to sort of talk with the Fed and say here we have made substantial compliance and for the Fed to say we can approve this Hudson City merger or not even other written agreement maybe something that required some more test work maybe the third-party review something that they would need to see in order to do that or what are the other things that would – the Fed would need to see and I guess in your opinion to move things along with the Hudson City merger? So Hudson city.
So let me start out Brian I know it's not your question but I have to start out by saying that how saddened we were by Ron's passing.
He was very very close to us.
He was a good friend with lot of roots in Western New York and lot in common with us as is true of the existing management team at Hudson city.
So I think that we are going to miss him greatly as well others I think.
But I mentioned that because as we think about what we did back last January M&amp;T and Hudson City mutually agreed to extend that period in which either party could sort of walk away from the transaction without a penalty and we did that extension all the way out to December 31 of this year and in doing that what we were attempting to do by providing that sort of 12 month window in the discussions that we had between M&amp;T and Hudson City was to ensure that we could provide enough time to show that we could make this substantial progress that we are talking about that we’ve talked about today.
And we also wanted to in addition to be able to show our commitment and we also though included in that thought process was that we needed to provide enough time for the various regulators to come in and take a look at what was being done and to also at that point in time consider whether M&amp;T was in the right condition to be able to proceed with any sort of transaction.
So all we can really say is that there is nothing sort of in the timeline that we kind of that has surprised us.
We think we’ve met all our milestones in that process and at the point where we are sitting here today I guess we sort of always envisioned that we were going to be – there was very – we still wouldn't be able on the October call to be able to provide any clarity other than the fact that whether or not we have done what we tried to do and we have done that.
And so I think what has to happen is you just have to let that process take its course and give the regulators time to make their assessments and do what they feel is appropriate thing to do.
But we feel good about the work we have done.
That's sort of the best I can share with you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
That’s is very helpful.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Rene you talked about mortgage banking revenues and some of the items that flow through again this quarter.
If you would just help clarify I mean you look at the sequential comparison certainly I think you have talked about the $4 million in servicing income I think that was incremental compared to last quarter but I thought last quarter’s mortgage banking revenues were elevated because you had gains on the sale of three portfolios of performing loan and still when we look at Q2 to Q3 level of mortgage banking revenue is relatively flat and it looks like the servicing only contributed an incremental $4 million.
So were there any other items that also kept the level of mortgage banking revenues elevated you mentioned a few of them if you could just help clarify that would be great? I think – I am just looking for the numbers.
I don’t have that on my finger tips but I mean off the top of my head one of the things I would say is that commercial held up very nicely in the quarter.
Let me see if I can just grab a number on the commercial gain on sales.
Yes the commercial business which Fannie and Freddie business was up $2 million but other than that no I think what was interesting is that the volume was probably little stronger than I thought it would be and that sort of offset the decline that I was also probably expecting on a linked quarter basis.
And having said that’s sort of why I mentioned the applications applications were down a bit about 9% in our pipeline which is really consisting of applications that haven’t made all the way through the processes was down about 18%.
So I do think there is still little bit of downward pressure that we would be logical to see as we move into the fourth quarter but no it held up pretty well and it was real core business.
Okay.
That is helpful insight.
And the other question was I know you talked about this again in your prepared comments but if could just help me understand the flow of funds in terms of the interest bearing deposits it sounds like you had some institutional trust money that came through and so your deposits grew sequentially and that money was deposited with the Federal Reserve and can you just help me understand how that tends to work again is that drawn short notice and then you again have to withdraw those funds out from where you deposited them I mean just the flow of the funds would be helpful and how that particularly works? Yes.
So the larger size deposits that we have been taking as I mentioned relate to our institutional trust business and then in many cases we are serving as escrow agents and then – in the case of this quarter a number of folks who were doing M&amp;A transactions have deposited money with us that we hold until those transactions go through approval in some cases that's the various regulators the justice department and so forth.
At times we have those types of transactions due to our trust duties which tend to be relatively short term.
In this case they were little longer as much as six months because of the nature of those transactions.
And so given where we are now where we have got more deposits because of the – quite frankly us but also the industry has just flushed with the excess liquidity that exists nationally there is no really use for that.
We put it aside and it goes into the Fed and we earn interest income but it tends to dampen a bit of our tangible ratio and it of course dampens the printed net interest margin.
So it's just service that we provide for our good strong trust customers.
Okay.
That's very helpful and just my last question was touching going to touch on the floor plan commentary and lending dealer floor plan lending and I think you had suggested that seasonally balance tend to be lower in Q3 and you see seasonal increase again in Q4.
And what I was wondering is when you look at this business what do you see when you hear about lot of optimism that dealers tend to have and it certainly seems like floor plan lenders aren’t concerned and I was curious because you tend to underwrite conservatively if you had any changes to your underwriting standards or lending criteria as far as floor plan lending goes especially like some of the concerns about auto lending really across the board.
So if you could address that that would be helpful? Thank you.
Yes.
Sure.
Sure.
I will start with the little bit of history.
So we entered the auto was in 1950 and if I can remember Don you might have to help me out but the first time we lost the dollars through charge outs was in maybe 2005 it was before the down turn in the economy and at that point in time what I think was changing was structural thing in the industry where for the previous 50 years what would happen is floor plan there was a lot of support by the manufacturers.
So somebody got into trouble they would take them out.
And they stopped taking them out as course of the manufacturers got into their own problems of course and frankly before the crisis started but we went through a pretty exhausted process at that time and the thing that we sort of concluded throughout our footprint was that there was a lot of difficulty with anybody who had a single flag and so if you were unable to have multiple brands it was going to be much more difficult to do.
So we went through a pretty exhausted process in 2005 and 2006 which positioned us relatively well.
Then during the crisis what you saw was a massive amount of consolidation in that process.
So you are actually dealing I believe with a significantly lower volume of dealerships who are much much stronger than they ever were in the past.
And that's how you are entering the process.
So then today they are benefiting because car sales are going up nationally and my sense although I haven’t looked at it recently but I would suggest those guys are probably stronger than they ever have been in the past because they are not really depended upon sort of this big brother backing that existed for the sort of – for the early years early goal so as I have talked to customers during that space and the RMs that deal with them things look pretty good.
The underwriting damage have not diminished significantly there.
It's competitive like any other place.
But quite frankly in that space for us our relationships are really long.
It's not like we are picking up a lot of new dealerships.
I don't know that there are a lot of new dealerships.
These are people we have done business with for quite some time.
That's what I can tell you.
Okay.
That's very helpful color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Hi! Good morning everyone.
I wanted to touch this a little bit more on Hudson city and sort of how we think about the milestones from here.
I know you said you have sort of done what you expected to do in terms of hitting milestones and targets.
Does that mean you all still hope to be able to close the deal by year end and were you all announced when the Fed sort of restarts the application review process? Well I think I think – I guess the way I think about it is I will stuck them at high level I mean I talked to Don every week and other parties talk to each other quite frequently.
So we are both very very committed to the transaction all the economics are still there and it's an interesting thing that when you have this longer period to watch the portfolio that you are going to merge with it gives you a significant amount of comfort above and beyond what typically typically this takes in a lot faster pace.
But having said that I mean all we are doing is working really hard.
We are providing external folks like the regulators and everything they need to access our position.
And we are just letting it play out.
I don't think quite frankly enough time is passed for us to be able to answer your question on that.
Having said that I mean as soon as we are to hear something in any direction it would be our responsibility to talk to you guys about it and to mention it.
Okay.
No that’s helpful.
And I mean it sounds like maybe the deadline is more formality than anything else and did all party seem committed and you guys continue move forward and do everything and it – I mean it doesn't sound like it's hard to stop.
Is that fair? Define hard to stop.
As if December 31 has come and the deal has not been approved as if it would online somehow.
Well it's been a long dance and we all still like each other.
And quite frankly I have to say I mean what I feel bad about it it's not difficult M&amp;T to put somebody through a process like that.
So I think our relationship is strong and we will have to see what happens.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Shifting topics a little bit I know you pointed 4 basis points of margin compression sort of expectation heading into the fourth quarter given where rates are today as you all look forward is that a good pace on sort of go forward basis through the foreseeable future until rates move higher or do you think that the pace of compression diminishes as we head through 2015? No.
It's funny because this is the first quarter we look basis points by basis points of what’s going on in the margin.
This is the first quarter where we seem to be above our 2% to 3% about 4% compression.
So my sense is that's not going to go away.
There is too much competitive pressure and too much pricing pressure out there for that to happen.
When I look back I mean I am pretty excited about the fact that our net interest margin this quarter versus – I am sorry net interest income this quarter versus last year declined by $4 million bucks.
So it's almost – just basically flat.
And so I think that's been our trade off of trying to figure out how in terms of getting the right volume and serve our customer base but do so in a way that doesn't result in too much margin compression.
So I feel like I did almost the decade ago where we were saying look if you are going to see large growth in volume you are going to see margin compression.
And so my sense is that we didn’t change our outlook because that sort of mid single digit 5% growth is probably what's reasonable and if we stay there I think margin compression probably stays where it is.
I don't see it getting less.
Fair.
And would the thought process be there that you can continue to sort of hold the net interest income I mean if margin goes down or any asset go up and flattish on the net interest income line? I don't know I mean it's not like when I look at my volume that we are not getting decent spreads and we are – we are getting decent spreads we are getting decent returns we measure economic problems.
So all the volume that we did which was about $2.2 billion of new commitments that went through our senior loan committee was done at very strong economic profits.
So that's kind of the way I think about it.
I guess the other thing I would say Bob is that I don't think you see a change in the competitive environment until some of the liquidity is taken out of the system.
It's just too much money everybody is available everybody is healthy.
In some cases probably some of the regions where have seen most competition one of the most interesting observations that was made in preparing for the call by one of some of our relationship managers involved in was that we had a number of credits actually that were in our catalog that were taken out.
And that always kind of gives you some interesting sense of how competitive it is but it's not as if the revenue go trends or devoid from what's happening on the credit side.
And my sense is that this will be one of those times where things will be slower and revenue goes tight as they always are and my job is sort of maintain our discipline so that we do well in the next cycle.
Great.
And then last question around the margin hop out but did I understand you correctly that it's sort of 4 basis points sort of core compression and then the liquidity which doesn't have the same impact on the interest rate as the liquidity could actually drive a little more compression on top of that or was the 4 all end including the liquidity expectation? No the four was on its own and then the liquidity impact would be further compression and the reason I have been talking about it that way is because at least today in this year that liquidity has added a little bit to net interest income as we look to 2015 I have got to re assess whether the remainder of what we do on liquidity coverage ratio is neutral or negative or at where it is and I think I might change the way I talk about.
Right now that's the best way for you to understand sort of what’s going to happen with the dollars of revenue.
Got it.
Very helpful.
Thank you Rene.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hey Rene.
How are you doing? Rene can I ask you a couple of questions on the expense side you mentioned all the progress you have been making with the compliance side pieces we are still obviously seeing an increase on the salary side and but yet we start to see a little bit of decrease on the other expense side.
Can you walk us through where you are in that hiring and consulting spend we are still escalating from here have we peeked or we actually turned the corner? I kind of feel like we are at the top end as it relates to hiring for BSA/AML as I look at the projection I mean we were I think last call I said we had done – we had like 571 or 572 individuals.
That number this quarter is 613 but as I look at the projection I think we are fully staffed in my mind and on the professional services as you saw that didn’t change.
I mean that was you know it was exactly the same numbers it was last quarter and I think that's going to – I know that that’s going to stay around for a little while longer because we have got work and volume to get through particularly on the fact that we got to get through the customer information and we use the term remediation but really getting customer information on all of our customers.
So not just the high risk ones we then we got to get on the medium risk and the lower risk customers.
So I have all got to go through sort of refresh of information.
So I think that will be around for a little bit before we begin to see a taper off.
So are we on that point about the professional services I’m not sure where exactly we see that the other line was down about $7 million from $240 million to $233 million but in that you are saying that those kind of consulting cost have been stable within that? Yes it's in there.
I am going to Don tell me if I’m not I think we spent around $102 million on professional services and it’s in that same line but then what you are seeing is you are seeing that the litigation reserve you need another one so and really the expenses that we are placing that we are on the salary side with the extra day and then some hires.
Okay.
So you are kind of saying on net and then do you have an understanding of just when that would start to roll like as we – I hear your point about we will kind of see it hang around for a while but as you get into some point next year do you have a line of sight in terms of when we can finally actually see that trend down or do you anticipate these type of level carrying through all the 2015? Well as we hit each of the milestones which we have done lot of them you are not going to need the level of external services and labor that we are doing today and I kind of talked about the idea that we are going to see this happen sort of through this year and that would sort of position us well as we get in 2015.
So my sense is that as we are now sort of fully staffed with full time internal people and as the work starts to get to completion various completion stages you will need less and less of external labor.
We just have to tie in to ramp up the internal people and get fully qualified internal people.
It was going to take too long for us to have made the significant progress that we wanted to make in the past 12 months.
So we used the lot of external people to supplement in the internal.
Okay.
I got it.
Thanks Rene.
Our next question comes from the line of Gerard S.
Cassidy of RBC Capital Market.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
I’ve technical question regarding the Hudson city deal do you officially have to reapply to the Federal Reserve to get that deal done? I mean we had our same application that has been outstanding for the period and obviously this thing that you would need to do as balance sheet change and circumstances change.
You got to make sure that constantly you always have the right up-to-date current information available to the Fed.
That's I mean pretty straight forward.
LLC</strong> How about again just on a technical basis here what pace that application that's sitting at the Fed to the meeting that they will have at some day in the future to vote to approve or disapprove? What's the catalyst that puts it in front of them on the agenda to vote? All I can say is from my years of experience on – you basically when you have an application and there are number of steps some of the most important steps are making sure that each institution from a supervisory perspective there is a very strong understanding of where those institutions are from a supervisory perspective and that's sort of the standard protocol that goes on in I think almost written in is BSA/AML and that's why we are sort of in this situation.
So the supervisory teams have to do a full assessment and make sure they understand where you are and then everything else is relatively standard in an application process.
So we are really focused on particularly making sure that we all get a clear picture of where both firms are from a supervisory perspective.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I know this has probably putting the carpet for the horse but from the sounds of what you have done for BSA/AML the amount of money you have invested the people and so on you are probably going to be defined as best in class by the regulators after this process is completed.
If you agree with that does that give you an advantage in a year or two should acquisition activity pick up again of sizable banks that you may be able to convince the potential seller that you can get the deal done to spend all – invest all the money into BSA/AML? No.
No.
look I think actually – couple of things are – I will restate a couple of things.
We know what happens this fall we are not done with the work that we need to do.
We are under a written agreement.
It will take a long time to get out from that written agreement and what we are dealing with today in terms of the topic you are talking about is this really a unique and special circumstance.
Our focus is really on continuing to build up that infrastructure and I can't – I mean I think you can get this from other institutions as well but I can't express to you the amount of change that has gone on in the regulatory environment in particular as I look forward around information information management structure of the data and that is stuff that we will continue to make investments on to make sure that we sort of have this – sort of renewed focus on our restructure and our capabilities to manage risk.
And my sense is that when we are done we will look a lot different than we looked five years ago and we looked three years ago.
And so I don't think that anywhere in our discussion is M&amp;A and all that kind of stuff.
We are very focused on the topic on hand and I think what we are dealing with right now is unique.
We have got lot of work to do to demonstrate that we can sort of maintain our restructure.
LLC</strong> Turning back to more on a day-to-day business side you talked about some of the underwriting standards now are being stretched.
Two part question.
Could you compare this period of underwriting to a prior period when you looked back over the last ten years what would be the similar time period would you say and second is there any geographies that you are finding it more intense as you mentioned New York versus Baltimore versus Upstate New York tougher? Yes.
So okay.
So what's similar now to say 2004 would be the amount of liquidity in the system enhanced by the Fed that there is no capital in the system as well.
And that's similar.
I mean if you remember when we were talking about then we are talking about the fact that it was really easy to raise money for hedge fund because everybody had all this excess cash that they couldn't find anywhere to invest because rights were low.
That feels identical.
I think what’s a little different though is sort of when I look at the underlying economies that we serve I don't think it's clear that those economies are as strong.
So when I flip through the largest credits in our non-performing book I do not see one area.
I see cuts across whether it would be people that are in the refining business manufacturing business baked goods where you can run – I just did this yesterday you run down its cuts across the economy so I don't think that there is as much underlying economic strength as we probably felt when we were back at that time.
The good news is that what we are hearing is that sort of several of our regions are suggesting that the actual – there is a slowly improving underlying economic condition and we are hearing that almost across each of the footprint.
The down side is for us is that people are stretching on terms they are stretching on particular stuff deal structures and the one of that strikes me the most is that when we are stretching out going past ten years or going out to ten years in terms of term structure.
And particularly if you think about the idea that there is huge amounts of liquidity in the system indirectly that means that asset prices are very very high.
And if that liquidity were to not be around you start to wonder about looking at deals with the ten year structure and really whether they can sustain those higher rates and so forth.
Upstate New York has been a wonderful place to be back then when they used to ask me well all your growth must be coming out of Baltimore because there is nothing going on in Buffalo that is not true.
That's a more stronger growth.
We saw like 6% growth linked quarter annualized linked quarter there and in the New York city metropolitan area we saw 9% growth but as you get down to Baltimore that was very competitive.
And so was Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania is talking about the economy improving in the lot of different places but that the lending available is pretty in terms of place that’s sort of outside of our capabilities.
To give you a sense we had one transaction which we lost which is an existing customer.
It was priced at LIBOR plus 70 basis points and it was 15 year commitment which will be so far under water even before you consider the expenses in the efforts of the RM this doesn't make sense.
So some days are similar I think but that's the best I think I can tell you.
We are watching it very closely though.
LLC</strong> Just final question regarding your comment about reviewing your non-performing credit shift across the broad swap of the economy would you say that those credits have been on the list for a fair amount of time or is that you are seeing this broad swap of new non-performers that maybe changing from what you just said from the guys in the field same thing seem to be getting better.
Are these credits have just been sitting there and you’ve been working on for 12 or 18 months to try to get them into performing standards? Last year I would have said we have seen a lot of term new stuff going in old stuff going out.
This year I think we are seeing improvements.
So the credits are they are – and quite frankly the majority of them are actually paying.
So we are receiving interests payments under the terms it's just that they weren’t in the original terms.
And then a small subset but it's always sort of helpful to kind of look at where they sit.
And again a couple of years back obviously they would have been for us in residential development and that stuff from – in those portfolios but now it's more evenly spread across the various economy.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
I appreciate all the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
On the liquidity coverage ratio what you sound on that now? Well we made a lot of progress essentially what's difficult about the talking about the ratio is that if you were looking at balance sheet for the rules and get through all that I mean we are pretty much there but we tend to take maybe a little bit more of a conservative view.
We throw out the cash large cash balances and those things and I think we are sort of what I would characterize is as we do that more conservative view we are in striking distance.
I think we are doing that with basically five more quarters to go.
The only reason we haven’t really closed that out is because we have some time to be opportunistic about the types of paper we are buying and to do that maybe over little longer period.
But that's the best way I can characterize it.
When you say you are pretty much there on the phase in 90% throughout the – Yes that's the way to think about it.
The phase in 90% the estimate and the proposal was 80 that's now been moved out a year and moved to 90.
So we are all in striking distance of all that where we intend to be and again that's we are taking a very conservative view.
We are not counting large amounts large amounts of the cash that we have sitting on for institutional type things and so forth.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of David Darst of Guggenheim Securities.
Good evening.
So you’ve announced and discussed kind of the organic plants you got around business banking and commercial lending in New Jersey would you say that you are kind of own track with what you would have been doing had Hudson city acquisition closed say six or 12 months ago or do you think that you are kind of ahead of pace or different pace for much little while have been doing on the commercial side in New Jersey? I would say we are definitely on track we are probably ahead and there is always in adversity right one of the things that I think we learned we were really impressed at how much progress the team could make and how the circumstances sort of forced the team to work more closely together to provide a full service to the relationship so we did all the stuff without branches.
So we think we have learned something there and all of that has been very positive we are very very pleased with what the team has done in New Jersey and I would say it's ahead of pace from the original schedule that we had planned.
Okay.
And then I guess can we talk about maybe this is premature but I guess there is some anticipations to be remixing the Hudson city residential mortgages into your commercial loans from this perspective is there a time line change or your ability to scale up New Jersey markets do that? No.
No.
It's ahead of the original plan despite the fact that we did – there has been delay.
So that's gone really well.
And quite frankly if I were to think about how you do this I think I remember talking back then about how that works when you go into a market a lot of times as you try to build relationships you get a little bit more business on the CRE side but I don't think that's really the case.
I think we have done nice job on both CRE middle market business banking as well and the business banking in particular is impressive when you don't have a branch network.
Great thank you.
Now that was our final question.
I will now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes today's M&amp;T Bank's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the M&amp;T Bank Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] It is now pleasure to turn the floor over to Don MacLeod Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lorie and good morning everyone.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
As I noted in this morning’s press release the past year was one of substantial progress for us.
Our results included lower credit costs as well as notable improvements in our liquidity capital and overall risk profile.
We made excellent progress on our critical initiatives to strengthen M&amp;T’s BSA/AML compliance and overall risk management infrastructure.
And while the target investments that we made moderated our return on tangible common equity to a shade below 14% for the year the -- taking these steps now positions M&amp;T well for the changing -- for the change to banking environment.
Our results for the last quarters -- our results for last year’s final quarter were characterized by higher revenues dampened by a slightly higher tax rate.
As we usually do I'll start by reviewing a few of the highlights from M&amp;T’s fourth quarter and full year results after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Remember that you can reenter the queue if you have additional questions that haven't been answered.
Turning to the details diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.92 for the fourth quarter of 2014 improved from $1.91 in the third quarter and a $1.56 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Net income for the quarter was $278 million up from $275 million in the prior quarter.
Net income was $221 million in a year ago quarter.
There were no noteworthy items impacting M&amp;T’s third and fourth quarter 2014 results.
However recall that our results for the fourth quarter of 2013 included an after-tax $24 million litigation related accrual which amounted to $0.18 per share.
As you are all aware since 1998 M&amp;T is consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
Our after-tax expense [$0.26] [ph] per common share in the recent quarter relatively unchanged from the prior quarter.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $282 million up slightly from $280 million in the linked quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.95 for the recent quarter up from a $1.94 in the linked quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders equity of 1.18% and 13.55% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.24% and 13.8% in the third quarter of 2014.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement taxable equivalent net interest income was $688 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 an increase of $13 million from the linked quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.10% during the quarter down 13 basis points from 3.23% in the third quarter.
The margin compression included the following component substantially all of the decline came as a result of higher deposits from our institutional trust business and which we in turn held at the Federal Reserve.
On an average basis interest-bearing deposits with banks including the fed were nearly $4 billion higher in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter that increase added to net interest income but diluted the margin by an estimated 13 basis points.
The credit performance of our acquired loan portfolio continues to outperform relative to our previous estimates.
As a result three years after the Wilmington Trust merger and five years after the Provident merger we continue to realize higher than projected cash flows from those required portfolios.
In the fourth quarter interest income on all acquired loans was $49 million increased from $43 million in the previous quarter.
This had the effect of boosting the net interest margin by about 3 basis points which was offset by a like amount of compression in the core margin.
Average loans increased by $1 billion or 6% annualized compared to the third quarter.
The improved face of activity we saw late in the third quarter carried through to the fourth quarter.
On that same basis average C&amp;I loans increased an annualized 5% influenced by seasonal strength in the auto floor plan portfolio.
Average commercial real estate loans increased by about 9% annualized.
This included double-digit annualized growth in Upstate and Western New York and improved activity in New York City -- in our New York City Metropolitan region which had M&amp;T includes New Jersey and Greater Philadelphia as well as New York.
Also contributing to that growth is a larger held for sale pipeline in our commercial mortgage banking operation which had its strongest quarter since the second quarter of 2013.
Residential mortgage loan volumes increased an annualized 1% and average consumer loans grew an annualized 7% reflecting growth in indirect auto and recreation finance loans.
Overall end of period loan growth was just slightly stronger than the average up $1.1 billion or 7% annualized.
The past quarter results are relatively consistent with what we've been seeing over the past 12 months with better growth in Upstate New York and in the New -- Metro New York City area driven by somewhat stronger economic growth that we're seeing in Pennsylvania Baltimore and elsewhere in the Mid-Atlantic and this is despite the intense competition that we see across the entire footprint.
Average core customer deposits which exclude deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Islands office and CDs over 250 000 increased an annual annualized 27% in the third quarter reflecting the increase in trust deposits I referred to you earlier.
Given their typical short-term nature the trust deposits declined meaningfully by the end of the quarter and reached to more normal level on an end of period basis.
Turning to non-interest income non-interest income totaled $452 million in the fourth quarter little change from the prior quarter.
There were no securities gains or losses in either period.
Mortgage banking revenues were $94 million in the fourth quarter relatively unchanged from the prior quarter.
Lower revenues associated with residential mortgage origination activities were offset by strong origination activity on the commercial side commitments to originate residential mortgage loans for sale declined by about 16% while the gain on sale margin was relatively unchanged.
Fee income from deposit services provided were $106 million during the fourth quarter compared with $110 million in the linked quarter reflecting a slowdown in consumer service charges as well as in commercial fees.
This was offset by higher credit related fees which are included in other revenues from operations and which were -- noticeably stronger in the fourth quarter compared with somewhat soft third quarter.
Turning to expenses operating expenses for the fourth quarter which exclude expense from the amortization of intangible assets were $673 million also little change from the prior quarter.
Salary and benefits were $345 million down $4 million from $349 million in the third quarter.
Furniture equipment and occupancy costs were $62 million down $5 million from the prior quarter reflecting -- primarily reflecting lower depreciation expense.
All other operating expenses were up by $10 million from the previous quarter.
The increase relates to cost of litigation defense as well as investments in technology and risk management infrastructure.
Expenses arising from the BSA/AML compliance initiative were essentially flat.
The efficiency ratio which excludes intangible amortization was 59.1% for the fourth quarter compared with 59.7% in the prior quarter and 65.48% in the year ago quarter.
Next let’s turn to credit.
Our credit quality remains extremely strong.
Non-accrual loans declined further from the end of the third quarter.
The ratio of non-accrual loans to total loans declined by 9 basis points to 1.20% at the end of the fourth quarter.
Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter were $32 million compared with $28 million in the third quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 19 basis points for the fourth quarter consistent with the full year figure and slightly up -- and up slightly from 17 basis points in the previous quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $33 million for the recent quarter.
The allowance for credit losses was $920 million amounting to 1.38% of total loans as of the end of December.
The loan loss allowance as of December 31st was 7.6 times 2014’s net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we continue to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $245 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these the loans $218 million or 89% are guaranteed by government related entities.
Turning to capital M&amp;T’s Tier 1 common capital ratio was an estimated 9.83% at the end of December up 7 basis points from 9.76% at the end of September and up 61 basis points from the end of 2013.
Our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under the Basel III capital rules on a fully phased-in basis is 9.59% at the end of 2014.
Before we turn to the outlook I will take a moment to cover the key highlights of 2014’s full year results.
GAAP based diluted earnings per common share were $7.42 compared with $8.20 in 2013.
Net income was $1.07 billion compared with $1.14 billion in the prior year.
Net operating income which excludes the amortization of intangibles and merger-related expenses was $1.1 billion compared with $1.2 billion in the prior quarter.
And diluted net operating income per share was $7.57 per share compared with $8.48 per share in 2013.
The rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders’ equity for 2014 was 1.23% and 13.76%.
Recall that results for 2013 included $67 million of net after-tax securities and securitization gains amounting to $0.51 per share which were incurred as we reposition the balance sheet for our first-time participation in the CCAR program.
Other noteworthy items impacting 2013 results were an after-tax $15 million benefit from the reversal of a purchase accounting accrual related to the Wilmington Trust merger and the litigation related accrual I referred to earlier.
Turning to the outlook as is our usual practice without giving specific guidance we’d like to share our thoughts for the coming year.
We are looking for loans to grow at a pace consistent with the 4% increase we've seen over the past 12 months.
Investment securities will increase as we execute -- should increases as we execute the remaining actions needed to reach compliance with the liquidity coverage ratio.
And offsetting those increases should be a decline in cash held at the Fed as trust deposits have returned to more normal levels.
Our guidance on the net interest margin is little changed.
We are expecting about 3 to 4 basis points of core margin compression per quarter.
If short-term rates start to rise as the forward interest rate curve currently implies the impact will tend to be offset by -- that impact will tend to be offset.
Purchase of securities as we complete our LCR build-out over the next three quarters we will further dilute the margin but should have little impact on net interest income.
I think it's important to note that as you think about those comments that our 310 margin for the fourth quarter of 2014 as a starting point obviously was influenced by that 13 basis points that we mentioned with higher cash balances.
We are looking for low single-digit growth in fee revenues.
Our growth last year in core wealth and institutional service business was in the mid-single digits and we are looking to match if not better that pace in 2015.
We see the possibility of an absolute decline in mortgage banking fees depending on where interest rates go.
Consistent with our previous comments regarding expenses we anticipate normalizing some of the professional service spending in 2015 as some of our work streams reach completion.
That said we still have some infrastructure and technology initiatives that we are working on that will absorb some of those savings.
And at the same time we are rapidly turning our attention to optimizing our business model in a way that produces positive operating leverage.
At 59.06% our efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter has improved slightly from the previous quarter and down 640 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2013.
We expect continued progress as we get to the fourth quarter of 2015.
Given the environment we expect lower spending in 2015 as compared to last year and our goal is to produce positive operating leverage.
I’ll remind you that we expect our usual seasonal increase in salaries and benefits in the first quarter of 2015 which primarily reflects annual equity incentive compensation as well as a handful of other items.
Last year that increase was in the neighborhood of $40 million.
We see no indications of a change in the credit cycle.
But with net charge-offs for the full year at just 19 basis points which is roughly half our long-term average our conservatism won’t let us count on beating that figure in 2015.
With respect to capital we have effectively closed any gap that we had versus our peer regional banks.
This lets us turn our attention to enhancing the efficiency of our capital structure at these higher levels.
And I will conclude my remarks -- my prepared marks with the topic that I’m sure you are all closely focused on the merger with the Hudson City Bancorp.
As we’ve noted we feel we have made tremendous progress on all of our initiatives and milestones across our most important work streams.
Both parties remain committed to the merger and as you know agreed to extend the date after which either party may terminate the merger agreement to April 30 2015.
Finally the financial metrics we calculated at the time of the transaction -- at the time the transaction was announced remain intact.
Of course as you're aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates local events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let's open up the call to questions before which Lorie will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Good morning René.
Good morning Don Good morning.
Hi guys.
So just two quick questions on the margins thinking about where the current curve is and your commentary about LCR.
So just thinking about the excess liquidity the accretable yield number.
If we take it -- maybe it's a 3.20ish 3.24 number that we go into next year with I guess what should we be thinking about as far as what you need to do on an LCR purpose to kind of build up your securities balances your HQLA? I noticed that your investment securities balances are down about $350 million in the fourth quarter.
So is that something you would do throughout the year? Or is this something that maybe you would wait till there is maybe a better outlook in the long end of the curve? So maybe just talk about what you are thinking about with those LCR actions in 2015.
Thanks Brian.
I mean I think that’s relative straightforward.
We had a fair amount of purchases in the first three quarters of 2014.
We took a pause in the fourth quarter.
And I think our plan would kind of be to go back and do the same to sort of finish out the work that we have to do.
So my sense is that the first three quarters of '15 will look generally very similar to what we’re doing in '14.
And I think beyond that that should bring us well into compliance.
I mean we are in very good shape today.
And I think what you will see next year is closing the final gap and then obviously thinking on the liability side beginning to replace debt that’s maturing and getting into more of a routine cycle.
Okay.
And a follow-up question on capital.
I think you are right thinking about where your TCE and your core capital is your common equity Tier 1 all fully phased-in are at levels -- at above some of your peers versus when you announced the Hudson City deal.
I guess with the CCAR that you just submitted I guess what are you guys thinking about return of capital and maybe be in a position to ask for a buyback or what level of Tier 1 common would you be comfortable with in order to start returning capital again? Well I think I can respond to in sort of general terms.
I mean so as you know we got through one CCAR and we’re pleased with how we fared.
We believe and feel very comfortable that we made further enhancements particularly to the sustainability of the process.
So we are pretty pleased with the work we’re doing going in.
From a general perspective in terms of priority now that we have a higher amount of core loss absorbing capital we’re heavy on the hybrid side.
So we’ve not sort of one of the few people that have not yet optimized their hybrid.
So that’s something that sort of falls into the first priority for us to figure out how to begin to take those instruments that won’t qualify as core capital or regulatory capital and move those off of our balance sheet.
And then as we kind of work through fully implementing out our risk management infrastructure I think it’s very logical that what you would see overtime I can’t really talk about the timing but that we would take what is very very low payout total payout ratio now relative to the average and we begin to sort of move that in sync.
So for us at some point in time it’s -- bank maintains its historical position.
We tend to generate a lot more capital than others but I think our plan is to sort of steadily make improvements in getting back to a more efficient space there.
Timing I can’t really talk about.
So I guess as far as the -- that timing could be something that would you feel comfortable with the Hudson City merger closing this year being able to put a capital return into this year's numbers? Well I mean regardless of any CCAR test and what have you I mean for us to be buying back shares while we’re entering a transaction just sort of outside of our thought process and our philosophy our policy not really our policy but just our behavior.
So that’s not something that we really have ever done.
Okay.
Makes sense.
Thanks for your time.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi Matt.
1 Good morning René.
How are you? Good.
Just a couple of questions.
One on the trust income line.
I know you mentioned that you are expecting some growth in that next year.
I guess I'm just curious if you are thinking about potential investment in that business maybe not inorganic growth but just further investment in that business along the line of what several other regional banks have done to try to boost fee revenue? That’s a good question.
I mean I think right now I often say that when we do transactions that there is the pricing there is the integration but then there are the merging of the systems but then there is longer integration.
And the way I think about it is we are always open to opportunities but we are very very heavily focused on continuing to make improvements into our back-office or infrastructure and our investment platforms.
We are still really very much in an investment mode in that space.
And it’s been very nice to see that the topline revenue growth has consistently grown since the -- what has been 2.5 years since the merger 3.5 years.
And so that’s been positive but we are still in investment mode.
So to the extent that there is now lot of opportunities out there we are not out there chasing them.
But obviously down the road if something were to make sense for us to do we would probably entertain it.
So barring an acquisition it sounds like you are still thinking about sort of mid-to-low single-digit growth in that line item specifically for 2015.
Yes definitely.
Okay.
And then what I would say is that in that business topline and bottomline over the longer term are not the same because there is opportunity for leverage right.
And then the way we are thinking about it as well is the fee income aspect of it is very attractive as well.
Right.
Makes sense.
Just a question on your C&amp;I business maybe a little bit on the CRE side of things.
What has been your experience the last quarter or two in terms of demand for lines? And some of your competitors have suggested that in 2015 there may be some elevated pricing on C&amp;I lines just as they begin to work through some of the capital implications from some of the regulatory pronouncements but just curious as to how you are thinking about that heading into 2015? I guess I don’t know if we’re in a different space.
I mean we have been pretty disciplined throughout.
And what I can’t talk about next year but as I look at this quarter talking to every single region the one thing that’s become common is that there is consistent competitive pressure.
So from time to time when we get together you will see some regions feel a little bit less pressure than others this and the fourth.
As we finish the year everybody was very loudly speaking about the fact that our competitive pressure was relatively intense and probably stronger in the second half of the year than in the first.
Generally speaking the big issue that we are seeing -- one of the big issues that we are seeing across the board is that people are moving out in terms of term 10-year deal structures on commercial real estate.
And what’s interesting about that is it's hard because our metric is pretty pure.
So we sort of are questioning whether people are really getting the right risk-adjusted pricing for that that added term but generally other than that no other big changes.
Okay.
One final question and I'll go back in the queue.
You mentioned appropriately managing your capital structure would include getting rid of or refinancing some of the hybrids.
Would you be thinking about refinancing those hybrids in terms of perpetual preferred stock or is there some other product you're thinking about? No we’ve got the appropriate amount of perpetual preferred stock for a balance sheet of our size or balance sheet of our size with if you were to include Hudson City.
So it's just actually excess sitting there.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi hi René.
I guess just in terms of thinking about a range of different potential outcomes let's just say for the sake of argument that you guys did not receive approval to close on the Hudson City deal.
Can you help us understand what would happen to your efficiency ratio over the next few quarters as you would unwind some of what you guys have done in anticipation of closing? It seems like you'd retain the benefit of much of the BSA/AML spending that you've done.
But I was hoping maybe you could parse out for us how much of your expense base you'd be able to cut to the extent that you think about the future without Hudson City being a part of it? Yeah.
I mean I’ll start up with saying we don’t think about it in any different with or without I mean the numbers might change but we don’t think about it any differently because our key is sort of make sure that the core of our institution is very healthy.
And so as we look at the current environment I think it's a good reflection of what we’re likely to see as the banking industry going forward and revenue growth is very slow.
You saw that we had mid-single-digit loan growth and we had some measures I mentioned of margin compression.
And then on the fee side our mortgage banking is relatively elevated.
So it’s hard to see that growing dramatically.
So I think you're in a slow revenue growth environment with a lot of healthy institutions competing for a few solid customers.
We've been here several times before and part of that equation is looking at sort of the operating leverage.
So as we go into -- as we go into ‘15 we would expect to see continued improvement.
I won't repeat my comments around the spending on our projects most of which is in -- is in -- heavily in professional services.
But if you just take that topic for a minute if you were to look at our peer group which includes 11 institutions so 12 with M&amp;T.
Typically over time we are in the top quartile in terms of return on it -- return on tangible assets.
And if you were to look through the third quarter with our higher level of spending related to these initiatives we’re actually just outside of the top quartile.
The single largest difference if you go across margin different fee categories is the single largest difference is our spending and professional services.
And simply moving that to the average spend for the peers puts us squarely in the top two or three position and in terms of return on tangible assets.
Now we are focused on our overall business.
And as I mentioned we’re beginning to look around and think about other ways in which we should be optimizing the firm at a time we’ve gone through all this change.
But if you look at just that particular item it really is very telling as to what sort of has dragged down our returns of it.
So we’ll have heavy focus there.
And then I think we'll try to gain traction with some other initiatives that maybe we can get into full swing in the second half of -- our second half or towards end of ‘15 that will help us going into ‘16.
So I expect continued improvement in our operating leverage.
Okay.
So is it fair to say that your comments or your outlook your goal of achieving positive operating leverage in 2015 that's something that you're targeting with regardless of whether the deal closes? Yeah.
Yes definitely and in fact as I guess I'm thinking about it I'm not thinking about the deal when I’m saying that.
Okay that's great.
Switching gears to margins just setting aside the effects of excess liquidity that you are parking at the Fed and some of your comments around the LCR actions could you help us understand what happens to your NIM if rates were to hold at current levels? That is the three to four that is the three to four.
Okay.
I tried to say it in a different way.
I mean I guess if you would move the LCR out of the way and you use the forwards largely if you believe the forwards you don’t have much compression just looking at the forwards through to the end of 2015.
But our current pace has been three to four and to the extent that we don't see increase in rates that's where it will be.
Okay.
That's great.
And finally the last one for me is on your effective tax rate.
It was a little bit higher this quarter anything noteworthy there? Can you talk about maybe what was behind that and where we should expect it to settle going forward? Yeah.
It’s a great topic in the sense that we’ve got so few shares outstanding that our numbers are really sensitive.
So it’s like a couple million buck.
So no you really can attribute to any one thing maybe in a period we have lower credits available.
But on the whole I don’t expect any significant change when you look at ‘14 versus ‘15.
Got it.
Thanks René.
Appreciate it.
Yeah.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Great good morning.
René could you just go back to the comments on CRE or the CRE growth? I just want to reconcile the comments that you were making about competition and 10-year terms versus the very strong growth you guys had in the quarter? Yeah I mean -- I guess the big thing that I could do is kind of talk about what we saw.
So one of the things that I thought was really relatively interesting in particular as we sort of finished the year is that like this quarter over the last 12 months our loan growth has been comprised of 5% in the New York City Metro Philadelphia and New Jersey area and 5% in upstate New York and essentially flat i.e.
zero in Pennsylvania and in the sort of Baltimore Washington area.
And you know a lot of the -- there is a sort of a greater abundance at lease in our portfolio on the real estate side as you get down to the Washington area.
And what we sort of seeing there is that that there appears to be sort of -- I don’t know if it’s an inflection point but there is abundance of office space.
You got to remember that the sequestration stuff is still affecting the economy there and then in the defense sector.
So it just seems like as we look back over the last 12 months that really the slower growth we’re being seeing there in total and in the real estate side has been affected by the economy whereas here in upstate New York it's been stronger than it has been quite frankly in the last 30 years.
And similar is true down in and around our metro region.
Other than that I mean the commentary is very consistent across the board.
So what you're seeing and we were able to get the growth the billion dollars of growth that you saw in our loan book 6% while that’s just coming from our core customers.
And when we’re winning it's usually because we have some sort of long-term relationship advantage that allows us to sustain the deal that provide some benefit beyond pricing particularly when it comes to smaller community banks.
So a lot of pressure that we’re seeing is coming from the smaller community banks but they just don't have the breadth of services.
So if you’re getting a larger more mature client we tend to have a bit of an advantage there.
Got it.
Then the growth the loan growth outlook I think it was 4% over the next year.
Is that predominantly driven by commercial real estate or is that a little more balance between CRE and some of the other categories? No.
I mean I think it's very much the same as both across the board maybe a little greater on the consumer side but it's a smaller portfolio.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning Erika.
Good morning.
My first question is a follow-up on the margin.
René can you tell us how much of the deposit growth you experienced in the fourth quarter you expect to flow out and sort of and timing as well? And to that end you would still have some excess deposits.
Do you expect that to be funding your future HQLA purchases? Yeah.
So roughly at the fed we had $9 billion in the quarter and at the end of the quarter it was already down to six.
So three of the four rise was sort of off our balance sheet by the end of the year.
So that gives you some sense of the normalization there.
And that would be it? It’s hard to say depending on what the client needs are but my sense is that the year-end numbers are better number than what you saw during the quarter that 5 billion or 6 billion is a better number.
And then in terms of the LCR we’ll be back into the market with unsecured fundings primarily.
And we really never even though the deposits that we’re talking about on the trust side definitely qualifying the liquidity coverage ratio.
We kind of in our internal view sort of cap the amount that we use because of the uncertainty around the availability of those deposits.
So most of the LCR purchase would be funded at the wholesale market.
Got it.
And a follow-up question.
We heard you loud and clear that you expect progress throughout 2015 on the 59% efficiency ratio and heard you loud and clear on how you could do that on the expense side.
I'm wondering if this the 59% -- the progress from 59% can happen even if nothing happens to the curve? I think I said yes I think yes we will continue.
I just can’t tell you how much but that’s what our efforts will be to do.
And quite frankly the tougher the revenue environment is out there the more time you actually have to focus internally on your operations.
We've done it before so it tends to be something that we're pretty good at so yes.
Thank you.
That was clear.
Appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR Capital Markets.
Hey good morning René.
I had just a couple questions about fee income.
On the mortgage banking side could you split what of the income was origination versus servicing in the quarter? Yes I probably can.
Give me a minute.
Someone will do that so you can hear all the shuffling of paper running around.
Thanks.
I know you had noticed that the uptake in service in year-over-year with the acquisition? Maybe while you dig that up I’ll ask another question about deposit fees.
They were down I guess quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year this quarter.
I know there has been a lot of focus industry wide on deposit fees.
Just curious there was anything unusual this quarter or how you're thinking about the deposit fee growth in 2015 whether it will be flat or even possibly lower than ‘14? Yeah.
We had some discussion about that.
I mean I personally think it was a little unusual.
Last year they were down slightly but I think that was across the board in the industry with behavior changes but our volume of transactions was lower.
We had some really nice -- very large storm in Buffalo but still with the year end and the holiday spend I was a little bit surprised about the nature of the decline.
Having said that it was both on the consumer and the commercial side.
So I think we’ll have to wait and see what underlying customer behavior is.
So we do this I mean I guess on the residential side -- I’m getting all this.
So I mean roughly we had about $70 million of our mortgage banking income was on the retail side and another $23 million was on the commercial side and of the $70 million about $56 was on servicing.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then if I circle back around I know you were asked about capital a couple ways.
I might not have caught it.
I know you said that that M&amp;T has a very low payout ratio relative to average? I was just curious if you were speaking about total payout or dividend and I think historically you all have always had sort of a below average dividend payout ratio but in an ideal world when you do start to look to take the payout up? Could you just sort of remind us how you think about dividend payout and where you'd like it to be? Yeah.
I mean I think first of all actually I was talking about the total payout ratio when I look across the industry.
Okay.
And I think you're right we’ve always been historically lower.
We think we felt always felt that was a more prudent decision and of course we didn't cut the dividend.
So it sort of hovered around 30% which is not atypical for we've been.
I think what is atypical is the long period of actually not having any sort of increase in that dividend.
But as a general philosophy I don't know that it's going to be very different.
We think that it matters regardless sort of what the rules are currently that in order to have more flexibility it probably makes sense.
At a point in time when you’re distributing the normalized percentage of your earnings that making sure that a decent percentage of that or a large of that is in repurchases is probably where we would end up on the long run.
I don’t know if that tells you much Bob.
So I think it does.
I think if I understand you correctly the dividend payout is in the right ballpark I mean maybe there is a little bit of room but it's in the right ballpark and really the opportunity when the time comes is to be more active on the repurchase front.
Yeah.
I think that’s right and I think if you just don’t get yourself into the guidance space for a minute outside what we typically would do in this new environment.
I think really what it says is that you got to to the extent that there is there is no hard limit but to the extent that you are over 30 you should be very very comfortable with your risk management platform and your ability to monitor and to see risks identify risks.
And so a lot of the way we think about it is that over the last year and then in the coming year we continue to make improvements.
So we’ll talk a lot about that during the course of the year in those areas and I think that may end up giving us more flexibility as those new structures mature.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you René.
Yeah.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hey.
Good morning René.
Hey René coming back to the net interest income just wondering so with the normalization of those trust deposits? Can you just help us understand what the starting point is for the NIM when you reset that or assume that the 3.10% is kind of not so much a low point but lower than you'd expect to start the year with that normalization? Well had the balances at the fed remained at $5 billion where they were in the previous quarter.
The net interest margin would have been -- printed net interest margin would have been 13 basis points higher than the 3.10% so 3.23%.
And we've not gotten back the whole $4 billion as of the end of the year.
We got back three quarter of that right.
So you can pretty very much use those numbers to kind of figure it out.
Right.
Okay.
So then I just I think I'm trying to understand then when you think about net interest income dollars we have to think about the balance sheet likely to be smaller but a higher starting point for the NIM and then you get the 3 to 4 core plus LCR? If there is no change in the rate environment yes.
Okay.
If there -- if the rate environment pans out like the forward curve say you just get a total of probably something like 3 to 4 just for the LCR or some like that right.
Right.
So roughly speaking no change you get 6 to 8 and then you try to offset that with balance sheet growth? So I guess where brings it back to is like off of the $2.7 billion of NII this year do you think you can grow NII this year kind of like you were talking about on the fee side? It’s our job to try.
But it’s a tough revenue environment.
Got it.
Okay.
And then on the cost side René just a similar question coming back to the can you remind us just how much of the consulting costs are in the current $680 million? No.
I don’t have that number and I think the best place to get it is off of the -- where is it comes on the [190] [ph]? Yeah.
It will components of that will be reflects in [190] [ph] when it comes out.
Okay.
Because I think the question is just -- similar question René just on the cost side you guys have been at the $680 million type level plus or excluding the first quarter seasonal computation bump? And I think we're just trying to understand the moving parts between when you mentioned finally starting to rationalize some of that consulting cost versus the magnitude of those incremental investments? So can we finally start to see that other line start to net down or total expenses start to net down as that compliance -- as that consulting cost come -- starts to come in? Yeah.
I think that’s exactly how we think about it I am not giving you a number a little less prepared than I should be because at the same sort of number that’s it’s been out there for a long time that you can actually see in the regulatory reports.
But that’s exactly how we think about it and as each of the phases of the work streams sort of work themselves down there's a lot of excess professional services that are no longer necessary because they are covered by the existing staffing base that you’ll see come down.
And it might not be all of that because we are continuing to invest in technology in some of those areas as well.
But there should be a noticeable amount by the time we get towards the end of the year.
Got it.
We haven’t seen it before that but yes.
Understood.
And the last point on that is can you just give us an update just in general terms of where you are on those workstreams in terms of the seven major kind of promises you have related to getting compliance and whatnot? Like how many have we made through and are we at a point where you're actually now over the hump so to speak? Yeah.
I mean generally we would characterize ourselves as on track with every single workstream that we have.
And I think probably one of the most meaningful things that’s out there is -- think about this is as by the time we get ourselves to March 31st for the first quarter we will have had implemented our new customer risk rating system and it will have actually been running and in effect for a full year.
And so that's great because through the course of ‘14m as we’ve run that we've been able to get some of the any kinks out of the system and feel really good that as we onboard new customers that we’ve got a good stable system to do that.
So that I think is a real key milestone.
I think we've got to -- we use the term remediate our existing customer base.
We’ve got to do the entire customer base 5 million accounts 3.5 million households or 3.7 million households and we've gotten through the majority of the high-risk customers and we are on schedule with that work.
And so no blips in sight there.
And of course the remaining group of moderate and lows we will get through over time right.
But that will take some time but we are on track.
Transaction review is well underway.
And I think I started talking about probably in the third quarter of last year and on schedule for completion.
And then we have -- really are pleased with the fact that we now have controls in monitoring and management reporting that is under -- is being operated in every single business unit.
And that allows us to sort of escalate any customers’ issues that are there.
So relative to where we were before we have made substantial progress.
The capabilities that we have today versus where we were say two years ago are vastly different.
And so we feel very very good about that progress.
Thanks René.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy of Sterne Agee.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Out of the $11 billion of consumer loans could you just remind us how much is auto? And could you provide possibly any commentary around competition and the ability for growth in that portfolio in’15? Yeah.
So if you look at the portfolio it's about just under $11 billion.
And in terms of average balances the biggest portfolio there is a home equity line of credit which is $5.8 billion and our auto portfolio is just under $2 billion and that's rounded out with the next biggest thing is sort of… Primarily recreation finance.
…yeah recreation finance and other loans other personal loans that are about $3 billion.
So I mean I think with the consumer loans those things tend to move in a very predictable pattern.
We've seen pretty steady growth over the quarter so if you look for example we said 7% over this past quarter.
It was 7% year-over-year in terms of the fourth quarter over fourth quarter.
So I would expect that to continue at that pace and maybe actually be slightly higher based on what we are seeing with the trends.
We are not changing our credit profile in that space relatively conservatives.
And then just as a follow-up.
This morning I took a look at the presentation you used in Boston last November and it mentioned stronger competition from bank and unregulated bank lenders.
Could you talk about where the unregulated bank lenders are showing up? Has there been any impact so far and what has been your response? And then are any of the initiatives that we are seeing in the expense line will they make M&amp;T more competitive going forward? Remember that second question.
We are seeing it mostly in Commercial Real Estate.
So you get life companies that have been in the game for quite some time now looking for yield and that’s made things pretty competitive.
You’ve also had conduits back in that space.
And then the thing that's little different this cycle is obviously you’ve got non-bank lenders in the form of private equity.
And I think in particular spaces like leverage lending and some spaces like that where the regulation has been tightened up and there is higher scrutiny.
Also different capital rules I think a number of private equity firms have decided to sort of offer their own credit.
And as I mentioned before we see that also because in Wilmington we may provide the trustee services for those businesses.
So that's one place where we've actually seen quite a bit of activity.
What’s interestingly enough that actually is a trend here in the U.S.
but it's also a trend overseas in London you are seeing the same types of activity.
I think it's all driven by the higher forms of regulation.
And then second part of your question was about whether we had any advantage from the work that we're doing.
You want to ask that again? Did I get that right? That is correct.
You're investing a lot.
We see it in the expense line.
And where is the upside as it relates to the competitive landscape that you just talk about if any? Yeah.
I mean I think look if I look at what we’re doing and I just I look at clearly BSA/AML program clearly the risk management and compliance updates and then definitely on the technology side as well every one of those investments is a leverageable investment.
And so one of the reasons why we -- or a number of reasons but one of the reasons why we were so focused on doing this fast is because to the extent that you get behind you you can sort of begin to participate mature those things right and then use them as you grow the institution.
So I can’t give you timing but clearly we think of all of those investments and the investments that we will make in 2015 and that like.
I think that’s really important.
Thank you.
One final question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Hi René.
Hi Gerard.
I apologize.
I've been jumping on and off your call.
But obviously your Basel III Tier 1 common ratio is very strong today at about 9.6% well above the required numbers a bank your size needs to have about 7%.
Recognizing you've got to carry more than that because of CCAR looking longer-term when you go through CCAR you guys come out real well.
Where do you want to manage that number to in terms of once you get the Hudson City deal closed and you guys are back on a normal track? Yeah.
I think I sort of implied that in my comments earlier Gerard.
I think the way I think about it is this is a process right and it’s a process because we’re going through a period of great change.
So we took our efforts.
We didn't issue shares during the crisis.
We then built our capital up organically to where it is today.
We made our investments our different platforms particularly in the CCAR and risk management.
We fared well in the CCAR test right.
And then as we kind of go into this test it’s an evolution.
So my sense is that from a pure capital perspective you see in a test there is not a need given our risk profile to have higher capital levels.
But I think the rest of that process is to make sure that our risk management process is to sort of keep monitoring that are very very sustainable.
That’s the sort of phase we’re in now.
And then as we kind of check that box I think our job is to get back to normal distributions and get the capital out there back to the investors.
I think that issue becomes exacerbated were we to consummate the Hudson city deal because it essentially is a portfolio that under us would be much much smaller right which then suggests it throws off a lot of equity and the only way you create value is to get that excess equity back to the shareholders over time.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
No you go ahead.
No because my thought was bringing the capital ratios down for you and many of your peers they seem to be so high and the ROEs for everybody are pretty weak.
And so to get these stated ROEs back up to 12% 13% the Es need to come down.
And I didn't know if longer term you guys would be comfortable with an 8.5% Tier 1 common ratio or is that just too low? And then as an add-on to that there is some talk about raising the asset size of CCAR banks.
And if those asset sizes are raised to a level well above yours assuming the Hudson City deal closes again would you consider even a lower ratio? Because you guys historically manage your capital so well now it seems like you've got so much extra capital.
I don't think we’re thinking about it that way right now Gerard.
I think that -- I don't think capital levels -- I wouldn’t think about capital levels coming down from where they are today.
I think that they are healthy but they're probably for the industry where they were continued to be.
When I look beyond that and I look into our portfolio and earlier I made some comments about sort of about return on tangible assets.
We typically are in the top quartile of our peer groups and we’re not right.
And so I see a fair amount of opportunity in trying to now that we’re under all the new rules and under all the new processes trying to figure out how to do them more efficiently and to optimize the spending that we've had in this big period of investment.
And so really what I'm thinking about is making sure that we can take that return on tangible assets and move it back into sort of number the top three positions amongst our peers.
And I think we see ways to do that and so that's about focusing our operations.
I think over the course of the next couple of submissions two things will happen.
One we will get to a much more normalized payout ratio because you will gone through the test and you will have a lot of evidence that suggests that not only on your models but under the national models people have a good sense of what your profile is.
Down that road I mean the way you would end up releasing capital from where you are today is probably you would have to show that you're having lower and lower risk profile under stress and that may happen.
But that's really not a topic that I think is out there today.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Sure.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call to Don MacLeod for any additional or closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at 716-842-5138.
Thank you and good bye.
Thank you for participating in M&amp;T Bank's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the M&amp;T Bank Q1 2015 Earnings Call.
all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answers session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Christy.
This is Don MacLeod.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the web cast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our web site www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
As I noted in this morning's press release M&amp;T reported a 6% increase in net income and diluted earnings per share growth of 2% from the first quarter of last year.
We were able to eke out modest growth in revenue in a difficult environment which combined with continued favorable credit performance and disciplined expense management to produce positive operating leverage even while we made investments to improve the franchise and to more efficiently server our stakeholders.
A higher share count accounted for the lower pace of growth in earnings per share as our capital levels continue to grow.
We have a lot to talk about today our results progress on our initiatives and some recent announcements as we usually do I will start by reviewing a few of the highlights from the first quarter results after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Remember that you can reenter the queue if you have additional questions that haven't been answered.
Turning to the results diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.65 for the first quarter of 2015 up from $1.61 in the first quarter of 2014 that figure was $1.92 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Net income for the quarter was $242 million up 6% from $229 million in the year ago quarter and $278 million in the linked quarter.
As you are all aware since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental recording of its results on net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $4 billion or $0.03 per common share in the recent quarter relatively unchanged from the prior quarter.
M&amp;T's net operating income for the first quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $246 million up from $235 million in last year's first quarter but down from $282 million in the linked quarter.
Net operating earnings per common share were $1.68 for the recent quarter compared with $1.66 in the year ago quarter and $1.95 in the previous quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders' equity of 1.08% and 11.90% for the recent quarter.
The comparable returns were 1.18% and 13.55% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Before we get to the specifics note that effective January 1 2015 M&amp;T adopted amended guidance from the financial accounting standards board for investments in qualified affordable housing project.
The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a significant affect on M&amp;T's financial position or results of operation but did result in the restatement of the consolidated financial statements for 2014 and earlier years to remove the net costs associated with qualified affordable housing projects from the non-interest expense and include the amortization of the investment in income tax expense.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement taxable equivalent net interest income was $665 million for the first quarter of 2015 a decline of $22 million from a linked quarter.
Contributing to that decline was the normal impact from two fewer accrual days in the quarter which reduced interest income by an estimated $10 million.
An additional $5 million reduction in interest income was driven primarily by the accelerated amortization of the premium on certain mortgage backed securities.
This follows the reduction in guarantee fees on newly originated FHA mortgage loans and the resulting uptick in the refinancing of loans backed by some of our Ginnie Mae securities.
For our expectations for prepayments speeds to unchanged we wouldn't expect this to reoccur next quarter.
We took further steps towards reaching LCR compliance during the quarter by issuing $1.5 billion of unsecured bank notes and using the proceeds to purchase additional high quality liquid assets with lower yields than we previously obtained.
The combination of those transactions reduced the net interest income by an estimated $4 million we will discuss our LCR program further when we get into the outlook.
Finally there was a $4 billion decline in average deposits from our institutional trust business.
Recall that excess deposit balances reside at the Federal Reserve.
That decline occurred prior to the end of the fourth quarter and was reflected on the balance sheet at December 31.
Although those transactions generated a very narrow spread the large decline in those balances reduced interest income by an estimated $3 million but improved the net interest margin.
These average balances are now at what we would consider to be more normal levels.
The net interest margin was 317 basis points during the quarter up 7 basis points from 310 basis points in the fourth quarter.
The components of that change were as follows; the large decline in trust deposits held at the fed increased reported net interest margin by an estimated 14 basis points.
While LCR related investments and associated funding reduced the net interest margin by an estimated five basis points.
The impact from the accelerated MBS premium amortization reduced the margin by an estimated two basis points and we saw the usual impact from the day count in the shorter quarter which added an estimated two basis points of the month [ph] [0:04:00] (4).
Our estimate of the compression in the core margin excluding the items I just mentioned was somewhat less than what we have recently seen over the past several quarters about one to two basis points.
Average loans increased by $820 million or about 5% annualized compared with the fourth quarter.
Looking at each of the portfolio of categories on an average basis compared with the linked quarter commercial and industrial loans increased an annualized 7% including continued strong growth in the Auto Floor Plan portfolio.
Commercial real estate loans increased by about 8% annualized.
Residential mortgage loans declined an annualized 4% and consumer loans grew an annualized 1% this category included growth in indirect auto loans offset by a decline in home equity lines of credit.
Average core consumer deposits which exclude deposits received at M&amp;T's Cayman Island office and CDs over $250 000 declined an annualized 21% from the fourth quarter reflecting the decrease in trust deposits I referenced earlier.
Turning to non-interest income non-interest income totaled $440 million in the first quarter compared with $452 million in the prior quarter.
Mortgage banking revenues were $102 million in the first quarter up $8 million from the prior quarter.
Commitments to originate residential mortgage loans for sale increased about 27% and we saw a surge in refinancing activity early in the quarter when rates declined and the momentum continued even after rates rallied.
This led to a $6 million increase in residential gain on-sale.
Several fee categories were impacted by typical seasonal factors.
For example fee income from deposit service charges provided was $102 million during the first quarter compared with $106 million in the linked quarter.
Trust fees were $124 million in the recent quarter compared with $128 million the previous quarter which included strong results for the institutional client services business.
Similarly credit related fees were lower by $7 million coming off what was a strong fourth quarter.
That decline largely related to fees that are typically transaction driven and can vary somewhat from quarter-to-quarter.
Turning to expenses operating expenses for the first quarter which exclude expenses from the amortization of intangible assets were $680 million unchanged from a year ago quarter.
The $21 million increase in operating expenses from $659 million in a linked quarter reflected increased salaries and benefits partially offset by a decline in other costs of operation.
Salaries and benefits increased by $45 million for the fourth quarter reflecting in part the normal seasonal increase that comes from the accelerated recognition of equity compensation expense for certain retirement eligible employees.
Higher FICA expense and certain other benefit costs as well as an $8 million rise in pension expense that was previously disclosed in the footnote to the 2014 10-K.
The seasonal factors will decline as we enter the second quarter but the higher pension costs should remain throughout the end of the year.
Other costs of operations were $203 million down $28 million from a linked quarter and down $8 million from a year ago.
Elevated professional service expenses in the fourth quarter of 2014 including higher legal expenses that we noted on the January call declined to a more normal level this past quarter and other professional services costs were reduced as certain projects were either completed or reached significant milestones.
Overall we were pleased that we could keep expenses flat year-over-year while funding our initiatives and meeting our compliance related milestones.
As a result the efficiency ratio which excludes intangible amortization was 61.5% for the first quarter improved from 62.8% in the year ago quarter.
Next let's turn to credit; our credit quality remained strong non-accrual loans declined further from the end of the fourth quarter.
The ratio of non-accrual loans to total loans climbed by two basis points to 1.18% as of the end of the first quarter.
Net charge-offs for the first quarter were $36 million compared with $32 million in the fourth quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of loans were 22 basis points for the first quarter up slightly from 19 basis points in the previous quarter but still well below our long term average of 37 basis points.
Provision for credit losses was $38 million in the recent quarter slightly exceeding net charge-offs.
The allowance for credit losses was $921 million amounting to 1.37% of total loans as of the end of March.
The loan loss allowance as of March 31 was 6.3 times 2015's annualized net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we continue to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that have been marked to fair value at acquisitions were $237 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans $194 million or 82% are guaranteed by government-related entity.
Turning to capital the tier-1 common capital ratio is being deemphasized as the industry moves from Basel-I to the Basel-III capital framework this year; although it will continue to be a variable in the stress testing process.
But to give you a basis for comparison M&amp;T's tier-1 common ratio was an estimated 9.98% at the end of March up 15 basis points from 9.83% at the end of last year.
Our common equity tier-1 ratio under the current transitional Basel-III capital rules was slightly less an estimated 9.78% at the end of the recent quarter.
Before we turn to our outlook there are two noteworthy items announced after the end of the recent quarter.
Earlier this month we completed the divestiture of a trade processing business within the retirement services business that we acquired with Wilmington Trust.
Now this business generated annual revenues of $34 million with a minimal impact the net income and earnings per share in 2014.
From that you should be able to estimate the quarterly impact on revenues and expenses going forward.
Last week on April 15 we completed the redemption of $310 million of high cost fixed rate TROPs [ph] as contemplated in our capital plans.
The three issues had a weighted average coupon of 8.445%.
So now turning to the outlook; as is our usual practice without giving specific earnings guidance we'd like to revisit our thoughts from the January call regarding the full year of 2015.
Although our loan growth this past quarter was slightly stronger than the 4% that we gave in our outlook in the January earnings call we are not going to increase our outlook at this point in time given some of the mixed signals that we see in the economy so we feel that we are relatively on track with the trend that you saw this quarter.
Our guidance on the net interest margin is a little changed from our previous outlook.
Although the compression in the core margin was somewhat less than it has been in the first quarter we still believe its reasonable to expect about three basis points of core margin pressure per quarter.
If short term rates start to rise the impact will tend to offset those pressures.
We expect modest progression in the net interest income over the coming quarters and still expect to grow net interest income on a year-over-year basis.
We still need to acquire additional high quality liquid assets to reach full compliance for the liquidity coverage ratio over the remainder of the year.
Timing will be opportunistic but we expect to be done well before the end of the year and perhaps by the end of the third quarter.
We are still looking for low single digit growth in fee revenues as is normally the case we expect seasonal increases in salaries and benefits during the first quarter to reverse itself.
However as I noted the increase in pension expense will persist for the full year.
We would expect the decline in the second quarter to be in the neighborhood of $30 million.
And as many of you know in its message to the shareholders in the annual report Bob Wilmers discussed in detail the investments that we have made in 2014 and our continuing investments in BSA/AML clients capital planning stress testing risk management and infrastructure and client technology platforms to optimize the franchise.
While we still have more work to do professional service expenses incurred in connection with our BSA/AML work are starting to trend downward as some of the workstreams reach completion.
Over the remainder of 2015 infrastructure data and other initiatives that we are working on will absorb some of those savings.
We do expect to see some net benefit beginning next quarter with most of the improvement in the second half of the year.
All that said our basic outlook for expenses is unchanged.
We continue to expect lower overall spending in 2015 compared to last year and we remain focused on producing positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis.
The first quarter got us off to a good start.
Overall our areas of focus for 2015 are fairly straight-forward; to continue to improve the efficiency of our balance sheet; manage the revenue expense dynamics to produce operating leverage; to optimize our capital structure while conforming with both the regulatory capital thresholds as well as the annual stress tests.
I will conclude my prepared remarks with the topic that I am sure you are all closely focused on the merger with Hudson City Bancorp.
In connection with the merger we announced last Friday that M&amp;T and Hudson City have agreed to an extension of the merger agreement to October 31st 2015.
We think this will provide our regulators sufficient time to review our merger application which the Federal Reserve has indicated it will be in a position to act on by September 30.
No assurance can be given as to whether or when the necessary approvals of the mergers will be received.
We see no material change in the deal economics from what we have conveyed previously and we remain strongly committed to the merger and to our prospective partners at Hudson City.
Of course as you are aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let's open up the call to questions before which the operator will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions].
And your first question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi Matt.
Good morning René.
Thanks for taking my call.
Just a couple of questions just on the HCBK transaction.
You mentioned that there is no material -- you don't believe there is a material change to the deal economics at this point.
Is there any change in sort of the pace of the accretion relative to the pace that you originally announced in 2012? So if you go back to what we announced in 2012 I will start by saying we are still in line with that guidance.
Just straight-forward what the accretion would be we are still in-line with that guidance.
Having said that remember what's happening with the shrinking balance sheet over time; had we done the deal earlier the accretion probably would have been a little bit larger.
But all of that is now captured in the equity of the firm right; so that's how the economics are sort of held intact and don't change the deal.
Okay.
And does the delay relative to what you thought the timing was going to be when you submitted your CCAR at the beginning of this year.
Does that have any effect on the potential timing of the buybacks that you are scheduled to do in early 2016? In our governance process when we looked at those levels of buyback we didn't assume anything about whether or not we would have to deal; we sort of just looked at what M&amp;T on its own could handle as sort of a first step of returning to buyback.
Okay.
And just finally for me any change in the tax rate given the new accounting treatment going forward? No.
There is no change to the tax rate.
But what I'd urge you to do is take a look at the quarterly trend because all those are restated.
So the number might be higher than what's in your models but the tax rate is going to be consistent with what you're seeing across the quarters there in the press release [ph] [0:02:56] (7).
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Hey good morning René good morning Don.
So just wanted to follow-up on the question on the guidance related to the merger and the NII.
So René you talked about typical three basis points of quarterly compression and NIM.
It looks like the HQLA was added late in the quarter and had a five basis point impact.
So is that three basis points not including the impact of those HQLA purchases into the second quarter? Maybe give us a little extra color around what the HQLA impact could have on 2Q's NIM? Yeah.
That two three basis points is is without the HQLA and if you think about what happened in the first quarter we went out and did a $1.5 billion issuance of debt.
And in fact we did 5s and 10s which is sort of the first time we did that because we thought that the spread between treasuries and net debt were at historic lows I think 47 basis points for the 10.
So we took the opportunity to go out and grab some of that efficiency to length out the maturity structure of the debt.
So there was a bit of an extra cost this quarter than you would normally see.
My thinking is that our thought is that we might be quite a bit lighter in the second quarter and then finish up in the second half of the year.
So second quarter I don't expect a similar impact and third quarter will depend a little bit about on what we do with the term structure instead of what's available at that time.
So I think going forward for the remainder of the three quarters I don't think there is a big material effect from finishing up what we have to do on the dollar amount of NII.
Okay.
So guess just on the NIM the percentage NIM -- now the five basis point impact in the first quarter there was about a third of an impact it seems on average balances.
Should we think that there is another 10 basis points that come out of the NIM in the second quarter or the full impact of what you did in the first? There might be some impact but I don't see much of an impact.
Okay.
And again the three basis points doesn't include the benefit from the TROP [ph] reduction either then? No it does not.
Right okay.
All right thanks for taking my questions.
Appreciate it.
Sure Brian.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
René I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the trajectory of other expenses and your comments about having lower expenses in 2015 versus 2014? Can you help us understand how this mix shift happens from the professional consulting fees into the core and how much netting down you think that could have especially on that other expense line? Yeah.
I think I know what you mean but just to be clear in terms of where we were at the end of last year we had built up our infrastructure to have all of our permanent resources in place a lot of which were in salaries and benefits but we still had running the full content of the professional services and temporary staffing that helped us get accelerate the pace of the work.
And so as we reach our milestones that will come down and it will produce lower expenses and -- from where we are now and also on a year-over-year basis point as you look at each quarter.
But we don't think that you will see the full benefit of that because we need to continue to make some investments particularly on the technology side that we like to do.
So I think the way to think about it is we are going to try to shoot for positive operating leverage every quarter this year and that -- go ahead? I just wanted to say on a year-over-year basis positive operating leverage? Yeah.
And I am thinking about it I am looking at every quarter; and that's why I said I feel good about the fact that we started off positively in the first quarter and if we can continue to do that by utilizing some of the lower professional services I think we feel pretty good about it.
Okay.
My second question is just about the Trust business; it has been kind of moving along at a low single digit rate of growth.
And I am just wondering what's that growth rate being burdened by and at what point do you think we can start to see an acceleration in the Trust income growth line item? I think this year-over-year we are looking at 2% in the past year since we did the merger we have been running at about five.
And if you look at the two most important business that underlie that that's the Institutional Client services and the Wealth businesses those are still growing at about that pace.
We still have investments in some of the affiliated managers and as you know with sort of the market performance on active managers that you're seeing across the industry those balances and fees are down.
But the two core businesses are still doing very-very well.
So I would expect if we could get 3% to 5% growth every year in that business I think that's a real plus because we are cross-selling that into the existing customer base and then we have to do that -- we have to work on our efficiency and our ability to deliver that -- those services in a more streamlined fashion.
If we can do that that would be a homerun for the economics around those business.
And just a quick one on the end there do you know the amount of quarterly fee waivers that you're waiving in that business? No.
Fee waivers in the money funds -- Ken we had sorted -- Ken we had previously disclosed 15 to 20 a quarter but I need to get that updated and we will have to get back to you.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bob Ramsey of FBR Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Just maybe touch on loan growth; I know you pointed out the first quarter was a bit ahead of what you all had guided for but you didn't feel comfortable enough to take up the full year outlook.
What sort of drove the strength this quarter relative to expectations and what gives you caution on a look forward basis? I mean I think you saw from the comments Bob that we had pretty decent growth in C&amp;I and real estate consumer was slower; and then geographically we still continue to see very nice growth at 5% growth annualized in upstate Western New York.
And then New York Philadelphia New Jersey that was 8% annualized.
Baltimore which has been running negative for several quarters was up 2%.
So it's sort of across the board with strength in New York I guess is what I would say.
And why we are so concerned with it though in terms of thinking that we'd be higher because we really have seen a lot of competitive pressure.
Mostly we believe because of the substantial market liquidity and the number of participants that are actually out there lending or competing for the same strong credit.
So we have got banks we have got insurance companies CMBS originations have peaked and we also now have PE firms.
And what we are seeing is that we are starting to routinely see sub-200 over cost of funds over LIBOR deals.
A number of them are now situated around 150 basis points on the 150 basis point range.
And we are also seeing -- loosening deal structures.
So the way we think about that is when you start seeing terms that get extended so that deal terms are that low in pricing and -- I am sorry the pricing is low and the deal terms are seven to 10 years the economics are in the mid-single digits on tangible capital.
And so the idea that you can ramp up growth and actually produce any economic results it doesn't seem to make much sense in this competitive environment.
So that would keep us somewhat subdued.
I think to the extent that you see somebody have significant loan growth I think you'd have to question the structure and the pricing of the deals.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then one other question sort of shifting gears the mortgage line obviously very strong; what is the split there of service and versus origination income this quarter? I can give you that I may shuffle around a little bit to do it.
So $68 million in servicing would be outstanding and then the residential gain on sale was around $21 million.
I think you may figure out the rest from that the rest would be commercial.
Okay.
And where the pipelines in that business is looking like heading into the second quarter? Pipelines look pretty strong.
I think if I look at the mortgage funds line which is sort of application that we received during the quarter minus those that denied or withdrawn or for loans closed that was up high.
That was up 50%.
So to give you some sense the pipeline at the end of the quarter was $869 million where the last time it was about that high was second quarter 2014.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Eads of UBS.
Hello.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess just following real quickly on the mortgage question there; you guys had previously talked about expecting mortgage revenues to be down for the year after the strong 1Q and kind of the strong pipeline.
Should we think about maybe having potentially [0:33:41] the upside there? I feel good about the first quarter its in the bag.
The momentum in the second is great but mortgage is all about rates.
So it really depends what happens with the rate environment.
Okay.
That makes sense.
I guess maybe on -- when it comes to mortgage loans on the balance sheet that dipped after a couple of quarters of being kind of stable.
Was that -- was it just more due to seasonal factors or anything else? You mean the residential mortgage book that we have? Yeah on the balance sheet.
Yeah.
Well the balance sheet I think that's -- I wouldn't characterize that as sort of normal run-off in the held-to-maturity portfolio.
And it wouldn't make much sense for us to be adding mortgages pending the Hudson City thing where you'd be bringing on $20 billion plus of mortgages.
So that's just sort of naturally -- natural run-off that you see there.
Okay.
It just seemed that number would stabilize a little bit over the last couple of quarters but that makes sense.
Then just a last one for me you talked about cash balances stabilize here should we sort of think about this level of cash balances as a good run-rate for the near term rather than kind of investing any of that in securities or elsewhere? We think that's right.
I think for now we are thinking about that as separate businesses because those cash balances are high but they tend not to be individual -- individual transactions aren't around for long periods of time right? So I think the level that we'd see today is what we kind of expect and I don't think we have any plans to really use a lot of that for the LCR.
All right.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi thank you.
Just a couple of questions; the first one was in terms of C&amp;I growth René; you talked a little bit about your growth relative to others and some of the competition in the industry.
But I was curious if you could just help us delve a little deeper into where exactly your growth is coming from now within C&amp;I relative to maybe where you had seen growth say 12 months or so ago.
So basically I am asking if the mix of where you're generating C&amp;I loan growth has changed any relative to what you had seen say a year ago? I don't think so.
I mean I am just -- I will do a bit of a scan.
For a long period of time the C&amp;I growth was sort of strongest in Upstate New York and in New York City and Philadelphia.
Fairly strong in PA and weaker in Baltimore and Washington; that still holds true.
I think its pretty consistent with what we have seen over time.
Okay.
And -- We just don't know [ph] what's going on in those economies.
But is there anything any underlying loan category specifically within C&amp;I that's growing more any -- if you have comments in terms of geography as far as specific loan categories that you can think of where they might be more pronounced sort of mix shift? No.
You remember each of the markets are different.
So there has been -- now you've got me out of the C&amp;I category in a sense but if I just think of the markets overall; in Buffalo there is a lot of construction going on and the number of hotels that have been put up and that could be transitioned into permanent financing versus in Washington DC one of the reasons why we think things are so slow is because the economy there around the government services seems to be relatively weak in terms of job growth.
So we are seeing -- in Washington we are seeing a slowdown in job growth we are seeing tepid office space demand especially in the general services administration and defense contractors.
So we have got a fair bit of a diversity so it depends on which market you're in so there maybe themes in markets but there is no big theme overall.
Okay.
And then you know there was one other bank that reported on Friday; they I think have a significantly higher amount of exposure to the energy sector and yet they were talking about how they had reduced commitments.
But it seemed like at the same time those same borrowers were able to get funding elsewhere in the capital markets.
So while they were de-risking it seems like somebody else in the capital markets is willing to take on that risk.
Now in terms of your customer base and your sort of tight underwriting through cycles it seems like your customer base would be even more receptive and able to get funding in the capital markets.
So when I listen to your commentary about C&amp;I loan growth and loan growth overall shouldn't we expect in this sort of environment that you see a more pronounced slowdown relative to maybe what your peers are seeing from that perspective.
Just more competition more loans going away funded by the capital markets relative to your peers? You should.
I mean I think -- first let me start off by saying I think we talked about this last time.
We don't have very much exposure to the energy sector at all.
So we don't -- we have some but its secondary as you think about shale and things like that.
And people for example trucking companies supplying water to those facilities.
So its very limited.
But having said that one of the things you're seeing whether it'd be unhealthy deals or on things coming out of the classified portfolio there is plenty of people to take those deals out.
And I will give you an example I mean one of the things as I go through all the deals I look -- one of them in New York state where we lost a particular deal.
It was a $30 million credit.
It was a 10-year fixed rate pricing of 2.14%.
We just did the $750 million of 10-year fixed at 2.90% which is not possible for us to make that loan.
So you start wonder where is that going? Is that going to the capital markets right in our people stretching in those venues.
So this is one of the things that makes us very increasingly cautious as we kind of move forward.
Most of our credits for example the majority of the lending is being done with the existing customers that are out there.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just my last question was -- I am just trying to get a sense for in this current environment what leverage you can pull from a revenue growth standpoint? I mean clearly looking at new products etcetera would be one place where you might try to drive additional revenue growth incrementally.
But if you look at the penetration of your commercial lending customer base and if you look at cash management or other types of services you could offer those customers do you feel that there is more room there where you can improve penetration? Or at this point do you feel like you are at a level where there are limited opportunities for you to sell additional products to that specific customer base? I think that as you focus on particularly folks on the commercial space I think we are very fortunate.
So well yes I think there is probably more that we could do in certain parts of the commercial segment around cash management and different types of cash management services.
I also think that will light in a number of other areas that we do.
So relative to our peers we are probably light on the insurance side.
There is a number of areas.
And then don't forget that we have got a big part of what the wealth business in Wilmington is its serving businesses.
And that has actually provided tremendous -- I hate to use the word -- you used the word cross-sell.
It has provided tremendous capabilities for us to supplement sort of a natural life-cycle of those business owners.
And so that's going pretty well.
So I feel kind of fortunate.
We have got areas where we know we could improve and we have some that we actually are improving.
And so I think that will be our focus.
I will just say it I know we are off with some folks expectations for the quarter in terms of revenue but at the end of the day I was pretty impressed that we had growth in revenue year-over-year at 2% and we are not seeing much of that.
And I think I talked in my comments about efficiency and one of the places where you have to look at efficiencies is to look at efficiency of your balance sheet.
And if we do that and we continue to look for opportunities there then that will have a positive impact on revenue like the TROP [ph] redemptions we just did.
So those types of things are going to be really important to us.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Yes good morning.
My first question is just a follow-up to Brian's question on HQLA.
René could you give us a sense of what you think the end of period balances would be in your investment securities portfolio? And also what you're going to be funding that growth with for the duration of the year? What they are now the end of period? What you expect the securities balances to be by the end of the year taking into account the HQLA purchases that you're going to be embark upon and what you're going to fund that incremental purchases with? We are somewhere around $14 billion.
I think we have got to do a little more than what we did recently.
In the last quarter we did $1.8 billion.
So we have a little bit more than that to do to get ourselves [indiscernible].
And remember I think we are being relatively conservative there.
So as someone mentioned are we using the $5 billion in cash that counts in liquidity coverage ratio but we are not using it.
So we are probably technically further along and have some leeway from there but we tend not to count those assets as we manage them internally.
And is that $1.8 billion more than the $1.8 billion for the rest of the year or is that more than $1.8 billion quarter-to-quarter? More than $1.8 billion for the rest of the year.
The pure [ph] median we are at 16% of our securities or 16% of our balance sheet and the peers are at about 19%.
Okay.
And then just one last quarter if you could if the deal with Hudson City does close or gets floated on on October 31.
Is fourth quarter -- end of fourth quarter too soon of a close to assume just for our modeling purposes? We have been trying to get the deal done for a very long time and should we get approval we will work very swiftly.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Hey I just wanted to ask about the cross-sell efforts down in New Jersey and twofold; one is kind of how much in run rate expenses are already there because that wasn't netted out against your synergies in the original deal when its already in the expenses.
And then two what kind of revenue have you been able to see with your efforts so far as you have got that fully operational now? You know Marty I think things are on track maybe a little better than we would have expected when we first laid out our plan.
We have got over $1 billion -- we may have put these notes in our -- the best place to look [ph] it involves letter I think we did a paragraph on it.
So one of the keys is that we have over $1 billion of loans to-date that we seem to be engaged in all fronts except those where we really can't because we -- also in retail we don't have any engagement.
So we feel pretty good.
That seems to be on track as we thought [0:46:32].
And I think for the level of activity that we have going on today in those non-branch business lines I'd say we probably are fully staffed from the level of activity that we have today and to see more hires we would have to see more growth in a bigger portfolio.
And just curious how much you were netting out of the original expense synergies that you have already incurred? I don't know if I have ever disclosed it but quite frankly I can't remember.
You know the number we hired right? I think we talked about on the ground we have 129 people there so you can do something there.
But in totality I think when you count people back here at M&amp;T it was more like 170 people that we hired and so you can get some sense of what the cost of that would be on an annual basis if you throw in a little bit of extra occupancy and so forth.
And then just one last follow-up if you look at the seasonality -- you have seasonality in really big buckets you had fewer days $10 million you mentioned on NII and you got fees which if you look at mortgage kind of already starting to kick in maybe you saw from that.
But that's generally about $30 million and then you highlighted another $30 million on expenses.
Typically you have a little bit more than the rest of the regional banks and the seasonality.
Is there anything that would soften that if you kind of look in total about $75 million from first quarter to second quarter in normal progression? I am glad you mentioned that.
So a year ago from the fourth quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014 I think in total we saw revenues decline about $36 million.
This time we saw them drop about $33 million.
So pretty much while it may be some different categories here and there there is nothing that's atypical about the seasonality that we are seeing and everybody's well familiar with what happens on the expense side.
So again that's why I spent a lot of time focusing on the year-over-year space because for us to do all the things that we have been doing and actually produce 6% growth in net income I felt pretty good about it.
And if we can keep doing that and we can keep producing operating leverage I think that's pretty good.
I think what we are going to have to begin to do as we get into the next year is start working on capital efficiency and those things as our capital ratios have -- we have passed two stress tests and our capital ratios continue to rise and so I think it’s a good time to begin to think about what our capital structure is and how we rationalize that as well.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks.
You guys mentioned that you have seasonality in the trust business but it doesn’t seem like a business that should have seasonality.
Can you just remind us why that's a seasonal level of revenue? Yeah.
Two reasons off the top of my head one is we get paid in different ways sometimes we get paid on a monthly basis some fee arrangements are quarterly.
But there is also a significant portion where we are on an annual fee basis.
So you would see that at the end of the year and then as you get back up you lose that source.
So that whole collection of people that pay you on an annual basis you wouldn't see in the first quarter.
And then taxes so for example you should see an uptick in the revenue next time because all of -- the substantial portion of our tax fees are paid in the second quarter.
Got it.
That means fourth quarter is higher given the annual payment and sorry your comments mean that fourth quarter was lower or second quarter is higher than first? First quarter would be lower than the fourth or the annual fee reason.
Okay.
And then second quarter is higher than the first because of taxes? Because of taxes? So there is some of it -- as we go back its pretty consistent.
I think at year ago if we do the same thing -- a year ago fourth to first we were down $4.7 million.
This time we were down $4.6 million.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jill Shea with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning.
So with the merger close date extended to October 31st could you note for us any potential differences in certain expense line items relative to your initial estimates for a potential April 30th close? And so to just keep some expense line items higher over the near term and then does this factor into your thought process in terms of timing of additional investments in the business in order to manage just the [indiscernible] year-over-year? No.
So all my comments about the financials to-date have been M&amp;T standalone and all the comments that we make about Hudson city think of it as time zero out 12 months of the first year.
So there is nothing we can do until we all bring those franchise together and start working on it.
So the start date both of when we pay for the franchise and both when we get to operate and it just moves.
But I think that's the best way to answer your question am I getting that right? That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Hi René.
Hi Gerard.
Question on your common equity tier-1 ratio that you pointed out at the end of March is 9.78% under the transitional capital rules.
Do you have an estimate for what that ratio would be at the end of March if you had to fully implement the rules applied? Yes I do.
It's just slightly less its 9.71.
Okay.
You've touched on more than once on this call on having to focus on optimizing your capital levels especially after the Hudson City deal closes this year.
Where do you see optimal common equity tier-1 ratio from your guys eyes? Where do you think that could settle out at every couple years let's say one everything settles then? So we have sort of been searching for that right.
So a year ago two stress tests ago we entered the stress test with a tier-1 common of 9.48 and we fared pretty well in the stress test.
And we entered with something like 9.76 or something like that this past time and we fared pretty well.
So now that we have had our internal models for some time but we are getting to -- get a chance to see the third party's view of that.
So we are kind of zoning in on that and I think that sort of starts to frame the idea of where our target ratios might come out and what I know that to be on a comparable basis you have to use the other measure which is 9.98.
So clearly as we start pushing up above 10 you're starting to get into the space of excess capital.
So at some point we will probably start disclosing target capital ratios.
But again I think we haven't really done that in particular because of the sort of uncertainty with the transaction because that transaction will give us even more capital all right and we need to sort of think about what the difference is between our target ratios and what we practically can and actually get to.
So that's sort of what our thinking is but hopefully that frames for you what we are zoning or beginning to zone in on.
Great.
And coming back to your comments about the loan portfolio; we have heard from a number of banks this quarter about the pressure on spreads due to increased competition.
You're one of the few that have talked about maybe underwriting standards now are starting to weaken if you will? Is this relatively new the spread pressures seem to have been talked about a quarter or two before from others as well? But the weakening of underwriting [indiscernible] is that something new that you guys are seeing or am I being too harsh in saying that? No you're not being too harsh in saying that.
I think what I'd characterize is it has been slightly increasing for a long period of time and that sort of increasing trend has not cone unabated.
So when we look at our own numbers I look at some of the things that in for a long term client that we are doing for them.
And I say to myself wow we are now getting into a space where if you're going to see any kind of loan growth you're probably -- it would be tough to generate high single digit loan growth in this environment when you compete with the capital markets.
I would expect in the real estate space the multifamily space the CMBS issuance will be up 20% this year.
So that's pretty natural for us not to be able to compete with those guys in the level of both structure and price.
Do you think it will be more challenging for M&amp;T in this environment? In the past you guys have done a very good job in managing capital and when markets became aggressive in underwriting your numbers would show that you would pull back have better credit growing through the down cycle.
But then take that excess capital that you weren't using and you weren't the best at giving it back to shareholders.
Now that you have this new regulatory control on returning capital could it be more challenging for M&amp;T going forward if you decide to pull back; because the underwriting is way too aggressive but you are in it now and you may have to sit on the capital longer? It’s a great question Gerard.
I hope not.
I mean we have got a large organization with lots of people.
And so we have a strong culture of not chasing revenue and I think that culture is still intact.
And at the same time we are investing very heavily in sort of modernizing our risk management infrastructure and make sure that doesn't happen.
All we can do is continue to talk about it and be very transparent about it.
Having said that when I look back at the cycles I think -- this is just me but I think that when we look back we will be talking about how -- when a lot of the standards were weakening and deal economics were lighter we were making investments in our risk management infrastructure and we were focused on efficiency.
And that's sort been this way the cycle has been -- has carried out over a number of decades for us and I think as long as we have that good work to do it makes us less antique [ph] about the fact that revenue growth is slow and our clients need to be very loyal to us and our focus will be on maintaining those relationships and making sure that we take some of the excess capital invested in our franchise in our infrastructure.
My last question -- last one is obviously it has been a tough go with this Hudson City acquisition.
After it is completed has your view or Bob's view or the board's view on acquisitions in the future changed because of what you had to go through in this process with HCBK? I will try to answer that question if you promise to ask me again what's the deal? Okay.
I think the way I think about it is this might be the largest transaction since Dodd-Frank.
There is a lot of uncertainty out there but clearly the standards are high.
And I feel good about the fact while it may seem counterintuitive that we are in there working on finding out first-hand what those standards are.
And I think that as we get to a place our investments should be leverageable; and I never heard anything to suggest that the regulatory environment doesn't want deals to happen ever again.
So I try to be somewhat optimistic.
Having said that I will tell you that clearly the standards are high and I look at all the work that we have done and the way I think about it is we have done a tremendous amount of work.
I won't recite it all but we have done a tremendous amount of work in a relatively short period of time and it kind of makes sense that the Federal Reserve would want to take an appropriate amount of time in this environment to sort of -- to sort of get their arms around those improvements we have made to get comfortable with it as part of the application process.
I try not to think too much beyond that but I don't see any reason why -- with the infrastructure we have in place that we shouldn't be able to do deals in the future.
Thank you for all your time.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your final question is coming from Frank Schiraldi of Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning.
René I think in the past you have talked about a 50% to 55% efficiency ratio of getting back to that level over time.
Assuming Hudson City closes is that a range you think you can get to in the current revenue environment or do you foresee needing some help from rates to get there? I think you -- there are cycles and I think that revenues are very-very depressed because of the rate environment.
So you see how asset sensitive we are its significant and you also have -- Don touched on the fact that on the mutual fund space where we have $9 million to $10 million of mutual funds that are earning zero to negative those would gain back -- go all the way back up to 40.
So this is -- we think of it in terms of the revenue and expense spread I think that clearly you could get to those levels with a different rate environments and not being where it is today.
Okay.
So those levels ensure of a more normalized environment then is that a fair statement? I think so.
But can you make improvements in the current environment? Yeah we definitely have the ability to do that because we have been spending a lot of money.
And if you look at the peers they have been reducing expenses we had not -- over the last two years we have increased expenses and there is a big spread between what we have invested in the period.
So we have opportunity to improve without a turnaround in rate.
Okay.
And then just finally on modeling I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
In terms of the accounting change given the effective tax rate in the quarter that's a decent run rate going forward just using that tax rate from 1Q? Yeah.
36-ish somewhere in that range is what you see there is probably pretty good.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
I will now turn the floor back over to Don MacLeod for any final closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations Department at area code 716-842-5138.
Thank you and good bye.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the M&amp;T Bank’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answers session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you maybe access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the Investor Relations link.
Also before we start I'd like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on Forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
As we noted in this morning's press release M&amp;T’s results for the second quarter reflect a number of positive factors including strong commercial loan growth as well as a rebound in commercial lending related syndication fees.
Expenses during the quarter were well-contained net charge-offs remained at historical low levels and capital and liquidity positions were further strengthen.
Overall I would say our results stepped up nicely from the prior quarter.
As we usually do I'll start up by reviewing a few of the highlights from the recent quarter's results after which Don and I will be happy to take your question.
So turning to the results diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.98 for the second quarter of 2015 up from a $1.65 in the first quarter and unchanged from the second quarter of 2014.
Net income for the quarter was $287 million up from $242 million in the linked quarter and $284 million in the year ago quarter.
There were two noteworthy items in the recent quarter's results first in connection with the previously announced divestiture of the trade processing business within Wilmington Trust Retirement Services division.
We reported a pretax gain of $45 million.
This amounted to $23 million of after tax or $0.17 per share; now second included in the operating expenses for the quarter of $40 million in contributions to The M&amp;T Charitable Foundation.
Taken together the two items reduced net income by about $1 million or $0.01 per share.
As you all aware since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions when they occur.
After-tax expenses from those -- from the amortization of intangible assets were $4 million or $0.03 per common share in the recent quarter relatively unchanged from the prior quarter.
The net operating income for the second quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $290 million up from $246 million in the linked quarter and unchanged from last year second quarter.
Net operating earnings per common share were $2.01 for the recent quarter up from $1.68 in the previous quarter and down one penny from a year ago -- from the year ago quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on tangible assets and average tangible common equity of 1.24% and 13.76% in the recent quarter comparable returns were 1.08% and 11.9% in the first quarter of 2015.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning's press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Turning to the balance sheet and the income statement taxable equivalent net interest income was $689 million for the second quarter of 2015 an increase of $24 million from the linked quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.17% during the quarter unchanged from the first quarter.
The offsetting factors driving the flat margin were as follow: Redemption of $310 million of high cost fixed rate TruPS in mid-April provided a benefit to the margin of about 3 basis points.
Offsetting that benefits -- that benefit was about 4 basis points of pressure from additional actions taken toward reaching our LCR compliance including purchases of high quality liquid assets and the associated debt.
The core margin was a little change from the prior quarter.
Average loans increased $1.1 billion or 7% annualized compared with the first quarter stronger performance relative to that we've seen in the recent periods.
Looking at each of the portfolio categories on an average basis compared with linked quarter commercial and industrial loans increased an annualized 11% commercial real estate loans increased about 9% annualized residential mortgage loans declined an annualized 6% and consumer loans grew an annualized 3%.
This category included continued growth in indirect auto loans offset by a decline in home equity loans and lines of credit.
Average core deposits which exclude deposits received in M&amp;T’s Cayman Islands office and the CDs over $250 000 increased an annualized 6% from the first quarter.
Turning to non-interest income or fee income non-interest income totaled $497 million in the second quarter which includes the $45 million gain on the trade processing sale that I mentioned earlier.
Excluding that again non-interest revenues were up $12 million compared with the prior quarter but down about $4 million compared with last year’s second quarter.
As noted in the press release this year that the year-over-year decline reflects foregone trust fees as a result of the divestiture.
Mortgage banking revenues were $103 million in the second quarter up $1 million from the prior quarter slightly softer residential mortgage banking revenues were offset by higher commercial mortgage banking fee driven by higher commercial mortgage loan originations for sale -- loans originated for sale.
Service charges on deposit accounts rebounded to $105 million up from $102 million in the seasonally weak first quarter and trust income was $119 million in the recent quarter compared with the $124 million in the previous quarter.
The decline reflects lower revenues as a result of the trade processing sale which were $9 million in the first quarter partially offset by a seasonal tax -- of seasonal tax preparation fees of about $3 million.
Commercial lending related syndication fees increased by about $10 million from somewhat soft first quarter.
These fees are driven by transaction volumes and can vary from quarter-to-quarter.
Adjusting for the impact of the trade processing sale both the -- and -- that is both the again and the divested revenues total fee revenue was up 3% through the first half of 2015 versus last year.
Turning to expenses we are beginning to see good progress in managing our expenses particularly in professional services.
Operating expenses for the second quarter which exclude expenses -- expense from the amortization of intangibles were $641 million including the $40 million donation to the Charitable Foundation.
Excluding donations to the Foundation from all periods operating expenses declined $23 million from the prior quarter and were down $3 million from a year ago quarter.
Salaries and benefits were $362 million in the recent quarter down $28 million from the first quarter.
Of course the decline reflects a return to a normal level of expenses from the seasonally high level in the first quarter which also reflects some -- it also reflect some impact from the trade processing divestiture.
Professional services costs were down $4 million from the previous quarter and down $15 million from the year ago quarter.
The decreases reflect lower levels of spending primarily consulting services related to our reaching certain of our BSA/AML milestones partially offset by higher legal costs.
The efficiency ratio which excludes the -- excludes intangible amortization was 58.2% in the second quarter improved from 61.5% in the previous quarter and about flat with a year ago quarter.
If we’d exclude the divestiture gain in the charitable contribution the efficiency ratio in the second quarter was 57.0%.
On that same basis the efficiency ratio for the first six months of 2015 was 58.9% 128 basis -- sorry 120 basis point improvement from the 60.1% in 2014’s first half.
So next let's turn to credit.
Nonaccrual loans were $787 million (sic) [$797 million] or 1.17% of total loans at the end of the second quarter a 1 basis point decrease from the end of the first quarter.
Net charge-offs for the second quarter were $21 million compared with $36 million in the first quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 13 basis points for the second quarter improved from 22 basis points in the previous quarter.
The provision for credit losses was $30 million for the recent quarter exceeding net charge-offs by $9 million.
The increase primarily reflects loan growth.
The allowance for credit losses was $930 million at the end of June and the ratio of allowance of total loans was 1.36% down just 1 basis point in the prior quarter.
The loan loss allowance as of June 30 was 8 times 2015's annualized year-to-date net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due which we continue to accrue interest on excluding acquired loans that had been marked to fair value at acquisition were $239 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans $207 million or 87% are guaranteed by government related entities.
In the heart of our annual loan review of the commercial portfolio during the second quarter and given our very low exposure to the energy sector we’re not seeing any patterns of weakness with respect to either industries or geography.
However we expect that review will result in an increase in criticize loans when we file our 10K for the second quarter.
Turning to capital our common equity tier 1 ratio under the transitional Basel III capital rules currently in effect was an estimated 9.92% at the end of the recent quarter up from 9.78% at the end of March.
Now turning to our outlook halfway through the year our view on the lending environment with respect to both demand from customers in the competition from peers is little change.
With average loans in the first half of 2015 up 5% over last year we’re running slightly ahead of the 4% projection that we gave you on the January earnings call.
One change is that all of our regions participated in the growth in loans in this past quarter.
We are still accumulating high quality liquid assets to meet our target of 100% compliance with the liquidity coverage ratio by the end of the year.
And we expect to issue additional unsecured bank notes in the coming months with the proceeds to be invested in additional high quality liquid assets.
Our outlook on the net interest margin remains intact and consistent with past comments.
The margin held up nicely in the second quarter.
The two primary sources of pressure steps towards LCR compliance in the core compression from loan and deposit pricing remain in play and increase in short-term interest rates will likely act as an offset to those pressures should that occur.
We remain on track to grow net interest income on a year-over-year basis.
We’re still looking for low single-digit year-over-year growth in fee revenue in line with recent trend.
Next I'd like to give you an update on our outlook for expenses.
You know we remain focused on producing positive operating leverage.
Adjusting for the divestiture gains and the charitable contribution revenue grew by 1.5% for the first half of 2015 against the 1.1% decline in expenses.
This past quarter professional service expenses associated with BSA/AML compliance declined at a healthy pace as certain milestones have been achieved.
And we made progress towards a sustainable and repeatable process in all areas.
Looking ahead those reductions in expense will be partially offset by continued investment in the plumbing that Bob Wilmers referred to in his annual letter to shareholders.
The investments include customer-facing technology our data warehouse and continuous improvements in our risk management infrastructure while our spending this year on professional services will decline from last year.
Total GAAP expenses may grow modestly from the full year 2014.
And our goal is to demonstrate continued improvement in the efficiency ratio over time.
Our outlook for credit is little changed with continued low levels of charge-offs and of course as you're aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties and various assumptions regarding national regional economic growth changes in interest rates political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let's open up the call to questions before which Paula will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Hi René.
Good morning Don.
René it’s wondering if you could just follow-on on that comment about the full year expenses and the kind of moving parts especially within that other line.
So are you saying that you're still seeing an escalation that would perhaps even more than offset that nice final delta that we've seen in some of the consulting and regulatory related? Yeah.
I think my wording Ken is driven towards the difficulty of predicting any given quarter.
And I think when you think about what we've been saying we've kind of provided you with the trend that a lot of the consulting in higher levels of expenditure that we've been seeing more than a year have begun to come down.
And we’ve begun to make those investments that we've seen in the technology and we’ll continue to do that.
Those expenses will ramp up.
I think one of the things that difficulty is you know for example in this particular quarter we had a high amount of legal fees.
And much of those fees are associated with the hangover of dealing with the cases that are still outstanding from when we acquired Wilmington Trust.
But those are kind of temporary in a sense and so those eventually will go away as well.
So we take the whole thing together.
I'm very very positive about our ability to continue to improve our efficiency ratio.
Just hard to predict any given quarter there.
But I think my comment is -- you can take my comments and so think about them over not one quarter but several quarters.
I have a pretty high degree of confidence that we’ll manage expenses pretty tightly.
Okay.
Understood.
And secondly just on Wilmington Trust and the trust department so the -- could you just help us understand that the sale of the transaction business how much that took out of that line and just the underlying growth trajectory on that in the trust department? Yeah.
I mean I will start with -- we are in within Wilmington Trust.
We’re still in retirement services business.
This was a specific function that we didn't think was core to sort of -- core to the business or core to our future and which we felt that another party probably could make more of that who had the necessary infrastructure that was there.
So I think we gave somewhere maybe in the press release what the earnings were a year ago in the second quarter and in this past first quarter and I think the number is somewhere between in either case between $9 million and $10 million.
When we look at the whole there's very little impact on net income or earnings per share when we remove that business.
So it wasn't something that was an engine of growth for us but it was economically very attractive to others who had that infrastructure already.
So it’s just made sense to kind of move on and divested that particular business.
And then just on -- on this core trends underneath what you're seeing in terms of Wilmington Trust growth and outlook? Yeah.
Things continued to be relatively steady.
If you look at -- there's really couple components right.
If you think about it in a very broad level we have income from the Wealth Advisory Services and we have income from the Institutional Client Services.
Those are the two big businesses.
But the third thing is that we have fee income from some of our affiliated managers that again are not really core to our business.
We inherited them to Wilmington and with the sort of lower performance that the industry has seen in active managers in 2013 and ’14 the balances from that erratic category and therefore the fees are down for affiliated managers.
If you remove that our Wealth Advisory Services and Institutional Client Service businesses are growing very nicely.
Both from a topline I’d say we are somewhere in any given quarter between 2% and 5%.
And from a bottom-line perspective as we sort of rationalize and build out our capabilities on the backed office we are seeing nice growth in the bottom line there.
So that is going very well.
We've got a lot more that we would like to do there but everything is functioning very well from our perspectives and with Wilmington Trust.
Great.
Thanks René.
Yeah sure.
Your next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi.
Just a few questions.
I was wondering René you touched on the additional investments that you want to make in some areas such as customer facing technology data warehousing infrastructure.
Can you give us a sense for how far along you are in these specific areas? Because over time the comment we generally that I have received and others have received is M&amp;T is a bank that operates very efficiently and clearly you are investing in BSA/AML and beefing up that part of your processes and technology.
But in terms of these other areas if one were to if you were to put a percentage of completions sort of metric across these different areas again customer facing technology data warehousing other infrastructure how far along are you in those areas? Sameer it would be difficult for me to give you a percentage of completion because I view these things as sort of long-term trends right.
And what I would say is that we're making -- we had a pace to make certain investments over time.
But a lot of that I'd say was slowed down over the last couple years by the shift to restructure our risk management environment along the lines with all the changes that came from Dodd-Frank in the industry.
And as a regional bank I think too much of the technology that we wanted to do let's just say for our customers was being drowned out a little bit.
And so we're trying to make a shift in that direction.
And so as we do that the way we are thinking about a technology investment is to make sure that we're making enough investments in the Foundation -- enough foundational investments that allow us to get customer facing technology out there at a faster pace as things change over time.
So this would be things like looking at the 360 view of the customer looking at the idea that we had not had mobile check deposit for our retail customers.
And so on the customer facing side I think you'll continue to see a steady rollout but we are hoping to increase the pace at which we deliver examples to our customers the things that make their lives a little bit easier.
That’s one component.
Okay.
The largest component I would argue are investments that we need to make that will ultimately improve the efficiency at which the way we run the business.
Getting a 360 degree view of our customers no matter which channel they come into the bank looking at our on-boarding and account opening processes and making sure we have the right technology infrastructure so that things talk across the bank.
And then last example would be improving our data quality in the control environment around the data in a way that is maybe a little less manual in some places and gives us better information.
So those last ones are all about efficiency in the long-term investment.
Okay.
So then in terms of the shorter term investment initiative would you anticipate for lack of a better term if you think it was catch-up to a certain extent that catch up component of it do you think you would be done by the end of this year or say the first half of next year and then there is an ongoing of course investment initiative as you try to look at mobile apps and some other things? Is that a fair way to think about it? Your general trajectory is right but the timeframes I wouldn't focus on.
I would focus on the idea that M&amp;T is going to be talking more and more about technology infrastructure as we go forward.
And I think what you are going to see as we focus on efficiencies in other areas the bank over time those will tend to offset that higher-level of technology spending.
Okay.
I like to joke around every once in a while when we're putting together the operating plan and someone says hey should we spend $100 million or $120 million on new technology investment? And you get wrapped up in the discussion and then you wake up and you realized we spent $2.7 billion a year.
So to me it's more of shifting our priorities the things that are going to improve the experience for our employees and for our customers.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just a couple other ones.
The first one was on credit.
You did mention that you were looking at the portfolio and kind of evaluating the individual credits about the halfway mark.
And I think your comment was that as you complete that review you would expect there to be more criticized loans.
So I was just hoping to get a little bit more clarity there.
Is there a particular area which has not undergone review where you feel that there could be more criticized loans coming out of that area? Just if you could help us give some additional light on that that would be helpful? Yeah.
No it’s slightly different.
So I’m not talking about the future.
I’m talking about the work we've done today.
And the way I would say it is things are good on the credit quality front but we do see a lot of competition.
We see competitor stretching.
So it's a great time to begin to look harder into your portfolio now because you have the capacity to do so and so that's what we sort of did.
We took our annual reviews that we typically do over time.
We said let’s take a harder look and maybe accelerate some of that.
So that’s why we think as we look at second-quarter results we will see some increase in our classified loan book but that would be work that we typically we do annually every year.
But we just sort of made a bit of a concerted effort to do it.
You saw criticized go up I would guess mostly because of energy loans in the first quarter with the industry.
So it's not about time as you know to just make sure you are diligent and it’s pretty classic for M&amp;T to do that in the off cycle so to speak.
Okay.
And then just the last question was similar to your trade processing business that you sold.
Are there any other areas that you sort of marked for strategic review as you think about it or do you feel that with the rest of your businesses that you don’t see anything that you identify and the near-term horizon is something that you might want to divest? Yeah.
Let me start by saying nothing material but there are probably a few things here and there associated with businesses that we've inherited over time that we're looking at.
But most -- I feel like most of that work has been done now and so the whole of what we're doing now is focusing on investing I think.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thank you René.
Sure.
Your next question comes from Frank Schiraldi of Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just I have one more -- well one more expense question first.
Just trying to as we think about 2016 now and we think about BSA-related expenses rolling off I mean would you say a majority of that will be captured by the bottomline René? Or would you say that a majority of that will sort of be reallocated into technology spend? I think it’s a bit staggered a large portion should be reinvested in technology spend.
But I think it gives us the ability to sort of ensure that we’ve got our revenues growing faster than expense is the way I would say it.
And to give you some sense we talked about last year that we spent in total or ramping up our BSA/AML program and with the consultants and $151 million in 2014.
I would expect that to be somewhere in the 90s when we get done with the end of this year.
But on the flip side we spent $30 million improving our CCAR results and process in 2014.
We will spend $33 million this year.
So in some areas you are still making those investments.
And I think what you will see is stagger over time that those two will come down but it’s a bit staggered.
So I just feel like we’ve very very good ability to manage our expenses prudently while making the investments we need from the point we are at here.
Okay.
And then so is the message more positive operating leverage year-over-year rather than necessarily quarter-over-quarter as we go through the remainder of 2015? Yes.
Someone had asked me the question how fast you’re going to get to 55.
So it’s just not the way we think about running the business here at M&amp;T we think long term.
And our goal would be we would be very happy if we continue to make progress on the efficiency over time.
And if it happens in that manner what’s nice about is it’s sustainable but it’s healthy right.
It’s done in the right way.
So we’ve got good momentum.
You see it in our numbers already.
We’re going to keep that momentum going.
And I think we will get to where we need to be to make sure the bank is efficient as it always has been relative to our peers.
Okay.
Great.
And then just -- just on asset sensitivity as we think about the Hudson City balance sheet coming over later this year.
As we think about I guess your shock analysis how much of that asset sensitivity would you say maybe in percentage terms would be lost once Hudson City balance sheet comes over? I mean this is a big estimate.
I am not even going to look at my numbers.
I would say half of it is has absorbed maybe slightly more but there is still a very -- there is still an asset sensitive position where those two balance sheets to come together.
Don is writing on a piece of paper one-third.
Okay.
One-third to have got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Eads of UBS.
Hi.
Thanks.
Hello.
So maybe kind of following up on kind of its core banking inefficiency thought.
I am curious just to hear a couple of thoughts on where you guys feel like you are in terms of the branch footprint.
You obviously have seen an industry wide trend towards shrinking branch.
You guys have done as well.
But sort of it seems like you guys are fairly productive when it comes to your branches.
So I am just kind of curious where your thoughts are on branch count? I think it feels to me like we did a lot of work in that space over the last couple of years very quietly I guess.
We didn’t really talk about it much.
We’re hearing a lot more people in that space today.
I think we are ahead on that front.
And then if I speculate a little bit I think it’s hard to rationalize in that space more without the right technology platform right.
So that goes back to the other issue is that if we focus on our capabilities for the employees there and the way we do business with those customers they will probably roam again down the road.
But I think we are pretty close to as far as we’re going to go in that space.
Okay.
And then you guys have maintained really quite solid CRE growth here despite everyone else.
There is a lot of talk about how competitive that market is.
Is there anything you guys are seeing that’s letting you kind of gain share there? Or can you comment on CRE? The number one thing for me is that if you’d look at the last year over the quarters while we had decent growth 4% 5% it was being supported by one or two regions particularly the metropolitan New York City area Tarrytown and western New York.
And what you’re seeing a little bit last quarter and definitely this quarter is just growth everywhere.
And so Baltimore has gone from slightly decline to positive numbers.
I think if I kind of go through them annualized growth this quarter was 4% in upstate and western New York and the metropolitan area which is New York Philly and just up north of New York was 8%.
Pennsylvania was 12%.
Baltimore was 7%.
And our other regions in total were 5%.
That’s total loans.
And in the real estate it’s not really that different.
But what you did see was a little bit more growth than we had been seeing in Pennsylvania and Baltimore Washington Delaware areas right.
So that was probably the differentiating factor and why our loan growth was a little bit higher.
Did that just feel like increased demand from borrowers or was there a pullback from competition? Or kind of give us any sense for what allowed that growth to accelerate kind of in the southern part of your footprint? I would say predominantly additional credit with existing relationships that we had for a very very long time.
We are putting money to work.
Not a lot of new like if you think of market share in terms of customers it’s not like we’re collecting lots of new customers.
Sure.
I think our existing relationships are pretty mind to work.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Hey good morning.
Just to follow up on that.
To the extent its existing relationships with or growing existing relationships is this customers increasing the line utilization have you seen any improvements there? Or is the customers consolidating business at M&amp;T or what’s kind of are they net borrowing more? Yes.
So give me a second here.
So if you look at usage it’s been up utilization has been up the last two quarters slightly.
If you look at the -- I guess the way I would think about it is the first place I would point as you think about some of the loan fees that were up in terms of the syndication fees right.
So we are getting a fair amount of volume from existing [Technical Difficulty] with the size of the credits are increasing so that's why we’re getting higher syndication fees right.
So for us we only want to take so much exposure so we tend to sell down the amount.
Remember we typically don't do anything very little.
In my terminology it would be participations in we’re not the lead underwriter.
So I think what you're seeing from -- particularly from existing customers is people are doing some larger projects and that's why we've got -- they’re doing more we got more loan growth but you’re also seeing in the fee line as we sell down some of those and sort of mitigate the amount of volume that we see there.
I don’t know if there is anything else particularly that I could clarify for you there.
Okay.
Shifting gears a little bit could you maybe provide us any update on Hudson City and how that process is evolving? As you know I mean it’s been a long process since back in 2012 where we’ve been kind of do whatever it takes to sort of get to the stage where we can complete an acquisition with Hudson.
In terms of what we’ve talked about in the past our progress in improving our BSA/AML compliance program is all on track with our expectations.
We've made significant progress.
We’ve enhanced our processes and our systems and all those things are running and in place.
And so at this point in time I mean there's not much more that we can really say or do we have to let our regulators the time to work through their process and to work through the application.
But it's really not in our control to be able to speculate as to whether or when the approvals for our merger would be received.
I wish it was different but that sort of where we are.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then last question I know you asked earlier about rate sensitivity.
Just kind of curious I mean I know you all give some rate disclosures in the Qs and Ks but have you think about the impact of that first 25 basis point move? Is there a proportional lift in earnings on 25 bps or is it less on the initial increases because of floor or some other reason? Or how are you thinking about kind of the initial move in rates whenever that happens? I think this impact right away.
I mean it wouldn’t be very delayed at all because we’re very sensitive particularly on the short end.
The one of the things that when I look at the result as you say beyond the Q when I look at the results on a flattening or steeping what surprise me a little bit is that in a flattening which is typically not great for us today it would be better than actually a 25 basis point across the board raised.
And the reason for that is that so many of our loans particularly commercial loan C&amp;I are price off of LIBOR the short-term LIBOR rates.
But in the past we never had all of this long-term debt that we had to issue into the market which is fixed.
And so when you look at our profile if anything has really changed is that a parallel increase of 25 basis points would begin to affect us.
But if that was an increase in the short end and no change in the long end it would probably impact us more.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Yes.
Your next question comes from Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Good morning René and Don.
Good morning.
So René on the expenses maybe we’ve had a lot of conversation about it today on this call.
I guess just thinking about the turnover contribution expense that you're able to invest this quarter.
I think from looking at your current report it was about a $6 million attributable expense in the first quarter and I think that's probably what you find in quarterly? So is there any thinking about that maybe this contribution expense may have funded the rest of the year is contribution to the Charitable Foundation maybe there's some room for that to be cost savings when we think about the next couple of quarters? It changes overtime I mean I think if you kind of fall some of the things that we've done we had a gain from -- we had a gain or you could call windfall from buying Wilmington Trust in this particular business that was embedded and that was in core.
And it just made sense to us to take those proceeds and put them into something that's really important to us in the Foundation.
You go back you member when we recovered from lawsuits $50 million to $60 million from the CDOs litigation that we had.
We kind of felt that it just made sense right to take those proceeds which were windfall out of our core operating that were not part of our core operating and put them into the Foundation.
So it would be lumpy.
So we could continue to do that if we think it makes sense from time to time.
So we wouldn’t over funded if it was fully funded and clearly usually after you’ve done something as large as this you might see a pause hard to say.
Appreciate that.
Okay.
I guess shifting over to the revenue side.
You talked about the large syndication fees.
If I look at the line items that you guys disclosed in the 10-Q there is the -- the line of credit and other credit fees that I would imagine that’s where the syndication fees and it was only $26 million in the first quarter versus an average about $33 million? So if this was $36 million in the quarter that mean maybe next quarter you wouldn’t expect the $10 million to go away but maybe it's kind of in that sort of $33 million $32 million quarterly run rate is that what we should expect? I hate thing the words I’m going to say.
But I can’t I actually can’t predict.
We got lumpiness there and there seem to be a lot of business.
I don't know that that slowed.
So it's hard.
At some point you’ll see lumpiness as you look at that line overtime but quarter-by-quarter I would -- a year ago was $34 million.
It seems pretty consistent.
And as I think about it we had a strong second quarter of last year coming off the first quarter.
So it’s hard to me to say what its going to look like.
Okay.
All right.
And then I guess last question the margin guidance that you gave it did seem ex the LCR impact from what you guys did in the first quarter that there was a core margin actually was somewhat stable.
So I guess thinking about it for the third quarter your guidance was the continued sort of core compression which you’ve always kind of said in the couple of basis point range? Should we expect then the LCR activity to be something that would compress the margin again on top of that? So I guess just want to make sure I’m understanding the guidance for the third quarter on both what’s core and the LCR piece? Yeah.
The LCR will compress in margin but we see very little impact on NII when we look at the forecast from it.
Okay.
Okay.
And is that something that’s kind of be in the same neighborhood of what you did in the first quarter when you think about the HQLA purchases you might be win bond issuances that you do upon that? So are you going to the asset side first because we've … Yeah.
Yeah.
So I guess a couple of purchase I guess yes.
The first I expect the second half to be maybe slightly less than the first half in asset purchases.
Okay.
And I expect the funding to be somewhat similar to what we issued in the first six months.
Got it.
Very helpful.
Thanks for your time.
Yeah.
Your next question comes from David Darst from Guggenheim Securities.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Rene do you feel like you are at a point where your service charges on deposit will begin to stabilize or do you think there is still more pressure to come? I don’t know.
I think we are thinking about that quite a bit.
I think that what you’ve seen has been a change in customer behavior.
And I think we’ve got to spend sometime thinking about how we react to that.
I don't think it is necessarily a bad thing.
I think we just got to -- we have to make sure that we’ve the products and services that are meeting their needs.
So I would look at the current trend and say it probably continues for sometime.
But I know we're looking at that heavily.
Don't really have an answer for you there.
Okay.
Then what might be the timeline for you to deploy mobile check deposit? I think will be out -- that's one example of things that we are doing.
It will be out next year.
Okay.
And then anything you can add to the discussion of growth around your organic initiatives in New Jersey? I can tell you things are going well.
We feel good about the progress that we are making.
The team is working very well together almost -- and pretty much on all fronts.
Obviously there's not much you can do in certain areas without branches but we are really really pleased on all fronts credit quality.
Everything seems to be going very nicely.
So no hiccups there at all.
Okay.
And I guess your comment on Hudson City is that -- at this point you have done everything you can do and you handed it over.
You are just truly waiting for a response at this point.
I think we’ve made a tremendous amount of progress.
And we're very very pleased with the progress we've made and in timeframe we've made it.
And that’s sort of what we committed to do.
So now we got to see what happens.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Hi René.
How are you? I’m great.
I’m happy to hear you.
You are kind.
Question for you.
You mentioned that you're going through this deeper dive in your loan portfolio which in the Q will see a likely increase in the criticized assets.
Should we expect then that the reserves could be built up in the third quarter to reflect this deeper dive or are the reserves already set for this deeper dive? Anything that we would have seen would be reflected at the June 30th date.
And you saw we added about $9 million to the allowance and majority of that was the loan growth.
But anything else we would have seen in there would have been also reflected.
So I don't expect any additional impact from what we've learned today.
Okay.
And then in terms of growth in your loan portfolios are there any regions within the footprint that standout over others whether it’s Upstate New York versus Maryland or parts of Pennsylvania or et cetera? What stands out to me is the Mid-Atlantic.
It is the second quarter in a row where we are seeing loan growth after quite a few quarters where things were slowly even slow to down and so that that was nice to see.
We’re not seeing any impact in any particular area but I could tell you that if you go across the footprint the largest growth we saw would be in healthcare and healthcare associated type businesses.
Real estate and rental and leasing businesses and retail trade those also saw growth.
But we will also saw growth in education services construction and manufacturing.
So it seems pretty broad base.
Very good.
And then finally to follow-up on some of the Hudson City questions if I understand it correctly obviously you guys work very diligently in updating your systems for the BSA/AML issues that were identified.
It seemed like those were pretty much resolved and then at Layfield came another issue on CRA directed.
If I understand it correctly more Hudson City cited the equation.
If that is correct and what I just said who is responsible for resolving that CRA if there is a issue that the consumer financial protection gear or whatever agency is addressing it? Is it the Hudson City responsibility or is it an M&amp;T responsibility to resolve whatever questions they may come up with? I think first Gerard we were definitely two separate entities today.
So we run our own franchises and we manage our own franchise that's really important to know.
I think the second thing I would say is that the issue that you saw on the newspaper regarding the CRA issue were not new to us.
They were long and old things we saw way back when.
So I think it is just sort of some how became news and put in the newspaper and became news.
Okay.
In terms of so if there Hudson City issues we should expect Hudson City to address them and deal with them before the transaction closes I assume? They deal with their issue.
We deal with ours.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I appreciate your time.
Thank you.
No problem.
This concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the floor back over to Mr.
MacLeod for any closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items in the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to M&amp;T Bank’s Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participant lines have been placed in a listen only mode.
After the speakers’ remarks we will open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations please go ahead.
Thank you Maria and good morning.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T’s third quarter 2015 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with the financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the investor relations link.
Also before we start I’d like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
As I’m sure you noticed in this morning’s press release earnings were a bit soft relative to this year’s second quarter as origination activity slowed in both our residential and commercial mortgage banking operations.
In addition credit costs were slightly higher coming off unusually low second quarter levels.
That said growth in net interest income and certain other revenue categories combined with well-controlled operating expenses which enabled us to maintain solid efficiency ratio slightly improved from both last quarter and last year’s third quarter.
As I’m sure all of you are aware our application to acquire Hudson City Bancorp was approved by the Federal Reserve on September 30th and by -- and subsequently by other regulators and is set to close on November 1st.
We’ll start out this morning by reviewing a few of the highlights from the recent quarter’s results after which we’ll give you an update on our outlook for the merger and its benefits to M&amp;T; then Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Turning to the results diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.93 for the third quarter of 2015 compared with $1.98 in the second quarter and up from $1.91 in the third quarter of 2014.
Net income for the quarter was $280 million compared with $287 million in the linked quarter and $275 million in the year ago quarter.
Recall that in this year’s second quarter in connection with the divestiture of Wilmington Trust’s trade processing business we recorded a pretax gain of $45 million while operating expenses included $40 million in contributions to the M&amp;T charitable foundation.
Taken together the two items reduced net income by about $1 million or $0.01 per common share.
Since 1998 M&amp;T has consistently provided supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $3 million or $0.02 per common share in the recent quarter compared with $4 million and $0.03 per common share in the second quarter.
M&amp;T’s net operating income for the third quarter which excludes intangible amortization was $283 million compared with $290 million in the linked quarter and $280 million in last year’s third quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.95 for the recent quarter compared with $2.01 in the previous quarter and up one penny from the year ago quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders’ equity of 1.18% and 12.98% for the recent quarter the comparable returns were 1.24% and 13.76% in the second quarter of 2015.
In accordance with SEC guidelines this morning’s press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Looking to the balance sheet and the income statement taxable equivalent net interest income was $699 million for the third quarter of 2015 representing a 4% increase from last year’s third quarter and up $10 million or an annualized 6% from the linked quarter.
The net interest margin was 3.14% during the quarter down three basis points from 3.17% in the second quarter.
Drivers of the change in margin were as follows: Higher levels of trust deposits placed with the Fed diluted the margin by about 2 basis points but had an immaterial impact on the dollar amount of net interest income.
Offsetting that were higher levels of prepayment fees and cash interest received on non-accrual loans which boosted the margin by about 2 basis points.
And that implies the majority of the 3 basis-point overall margin decline was attributable to core factors such as loan and deposit pricing.
Average loans increased by $179 million or about 1% annualized compared with the second quarter.
The quarter’s results were characterized by high levels of prepayment in addition to the usual slowdown in loans to auto dealers to finance their floor plan inventory.
Looking at each of the portfolio categories on n average basis compared to the link quarter commercial and industrial loans decreased in annualized 1%; excluding floor plan loans C&amp;I loans actually grew at a 3% annualized base.
Commercial real estate loans increased by about 1% annualized.
Residential mortgage loans declined $98 million on annualized 5%.
We have chosen not to replace runoff in this portfolio in advance of the Hudson City merger as its portfolio is almost entirely comprised of residential mortgages.
Consumer loans grew an annualized 8% reflecting good growth in indirect auto and recreation finance loans.
We were pleased to see that the mid-Atlantic was our strongest region for loan growth during the past quarter averaging about 6% annualized growth while our Metro region which includes New Jersey averaged 3% growth.
Average core consumer deposits which excludes deposits received at M&amp;T’s Cayman Island office and CDs over 250 000 increased an annualized 4% from the second quarter primarily due to the higher levels of trust deposits I referenced earlier.
Average investment securities increased $246 million or 1.7% compared with the second quarter.
We are currently in compliance with the liquidity coverage ratio requirement that comes into effect in early -- at the beginning of 2016.
Turning to non-interest income non-interest income or fee income totaled $440 million in the third quarter.
The comparable figure in the linked quarter was $497 million which included the $45 million gain on the trade processing sale I mentioned earlier.
Mortgage banking revenues were $84 million in the third quarter compared with $103 million in the prior quarter.
Residential mortgage banking revenues declined by $8 million; about half relating to lower gains on sale which came as a result of a 13% decline in mortgage loans originated for sale while the other half came from softer residential servicing revenues.
Commercial mortgage banking revenues were down $10 million from the prior quarter as purchases of multifamily commercial mortgages by the GSEs slowed from the first half of the year as they managed to the annual caps imposed by their regulator.
Service charges on deposit accounts increased to $107 million up from $105 million in the second quarter.
The increase was balanced between consumer and commercial.
Trust income was $114 million in the recent quarter compared with $119 million in the previous quarter.
The second quarter figure included $3 million of seasonal tax preparation fees; the remainder of the decline is largely attributable to lower market values of managed assets due to the recent stock market decline.
We note that after adjusting for the impact of the trade processing sale both the gain and the divested revenues total non-interest revenue was up 2% through the first three quarters of 2015 compared with the same period last year.
Turning to expenses expenses continue to be well-controlled.
Operating expenses for the third quarter which exclude expenses from the amortization of tangible assets were $650 million down from $691 million in the linked quarter which of course included the $40 million donation to the M&amp;T Charitable Foundation.
On a year-over-year basis operating expenses declined $8 million or 1%.
Sharply lower professional service costs were partially offset by higher employee benefit expenses.
As a result the efficiency ratio which excludes intangible amortization was 57.1% for the third quarter improved from 58.2% in the second quarter and 58.4% in the year ago quarter.
Next let’s turn to credit.
Non-accrual loans were $787 million or 1.15% of total loans at the end of the third quarter a $10 million or 2 basis-point decline from the end of the second quarter.
Net charge-offs for the third quarter were $40 million compared with $21 million in the second quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of loans were 24 basis points for the period compared with an unusually low 13 basis points in the previous quarter.
Looking back over the past two years our trend in credit losses has been fairly consistent.
Annualized net charge-offs were 19 basis points of total loans for the first three quarters of 2015 unchanged from the first three quarters of 2014.
The provision for credit losses was $44 million in the second quarter exceeding net charge-offs by $4 million.
That excess provision brought the allowance for credit losses to $934 million at the end of September and reflects our assessment of a loss content in the loan portfolio.
The ratio of allowance to loans was 1.36% unchanged from the prior quarter.
The loan loss allowance as September 30th was seven times 2015’s annualized year-to-date net charge-offs.
Finally loans 90 days past due on which we continue to accrue interest excluding acquired loans that have been marked to fair value at acquisition were $231 million at the end of the recent quarter.
Of these loans $194 million or 84% are guaranteed by government related entities.
Turning to capital our common equity Tier 1 ratio under the transitional Basel III capital rule currently in effect was an estimated 10.08% at the end of the recent quarter up from 9.91% at the end of June.
Now turning to the outlook this past quarter was important as it represents our last quarter before the combination of M&amp;T and Hudson City.
We thought it would be helpful to revisit where M&amp;T has been on a standalone basis before we offer our thoughts on the impact from Hudson City.
Through the first three quarters our average loan growth is 4.8% still running slightly ahead of the 4% projection we gave on the January earnings call despite a very competitive lending environment.
Our outlook on net interest margin remains unchanged consistent with past comments.
The pressure on the core margin from loan and deposit pricing remains in the area of about 3 basis points per quarter.
Net interest income is up 2% through the first three quarters of ‘15 compared with the same period last year.
While an increase in short-term rates would more than offset those margin pressures should that occur; we’ve learned not to hold our breath waiting for such an event.
It’s worth noting that the elevated levels of prepayment fees and interest on non-accrual loans in the past quarter could well return to more normal levels in the fourth quarter.
The softness in the mortgage markets especially non-interest income as noted earlier adjusting for the trade processing divestures non-interest revenues were also up 2% over the first three quarters compared to last year’s -- the same period last year.
Taken together 2% growth in both spread revenues and fee revenues illustrates the slow revenue growth environment in which we’re operating.
Regarding expenses we are pleased with our progress towards improving our efficiency ratio over the course of this year.
We remain focused on optimizing areas of our expense base as a way of funding the additional investments we want to make toward enhancing our technology infrastructure.
It remains our goal to demonstrate continued improvement in the efficiency ratio over time.
Credit trends have shown little change.
Although the net charge-offs increased this quarter from what was an unsustainably low level in the second quarter the 19 basis-point charge-off ratio for the year-to-date period has been consistent for some time now and other credit measures are still trending in a positive direction.
In all the slow revenue growth environment has been challenging for banks although we’ve tracked relatively well versus our peer group.
It’s has been our historical practice in this type of environment to focus on managing expenses to produce modest positive operating leverage such that the growth in the bottom line is a little bit better than the top line.
So let’s turn to Hudson City and the impact from the merger.
After a long waiting period we are pleased that based on our estimates the economics of the transaction are intact.
Our current expectation is that the merger will contribute mid-single-digit accretion to net operating earnings in 2016 slightly lower than our previous estimate.
This excludes revenue synergies or changes in business mix that should occur over time.
At the same time we estimate higher accretion to tangible book value per share and higher accretion to regulatory capital than our previous estimates.
Those higher upfront economic benefits reflect the impact of changes in market conditions on the value of Hudson City’s assets and liabilities.
As such a greater portion of the economics of the transaction will be realized upfront in the opening balance sheet in the form of tangible capital.
To the extent this capital can be deployed effectively or returned to shareholders there could be additional positive impact on future earnings per share.
In summary our key estimates for the transaction are as follows: Mid-single digit accretion in net operating earnings in 2016; immediately accretive to tangible book value per share; immediate accretion to the regulatory capital ratios in the range of 50 to 70 basis points.
Our estimated internal rate of return from the transaction is unchanged from our due diligence estimates of approximately 18%.
Underlying those estimates are the following assumptions: We expect to close the transaction on November 1st but don’t anticipate fully converting Hudson City to M&amp;T systems and back-office until sometime near the end of the first quarter of 2016.
We still expect to de-lever the Hudson City balance sheet but the implementation of the liquidity coverage ratio may require us to retain a modest portion of the securities and borrowings as compared with our original projections.
When that de-leveraging is completed and inclusive of acquisition accounting we expect Hudson City to add about $19 billion of loans and $24 billion of assets to M&amp;T’s premerger balance sheet.
The retention of securities and borrowings in order to neutralize the impact from Hudson City’s balance sheet on our liquidity coverage ratio position will modestly reduce the net interest margin for the consolidated balance sheet below premerger M&amp;T but will have little impact on net interest income.
Our estimate of merger-related expenses is substantially unchanged from our original projections.
When the deal was announced we estimated that we would be able to rationalize approximately 24% of Hudson City’s premerger expense base net of additions to staff required to build out a commercial banking capabilities within the Hudson City footprint.
Given that we’ve added to our existing presence in New Jersey we believe we can likely exceed our original estimate.
Of course as you are aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties in various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in the interest rates and credit spread political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let’s open up the call to questions before which Maria will briefly review the instructions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Eads of UBS.
Maybe starting out kind of what you’ve touched on last about the progress on hiring the commercial lenders in New Jersey in the Hudson City footprint.
Can you remind us how -- whether you are kind of already there and basically how quickly you think you can ramp up the loan growth in the Hudson City footprint? So in total we have on the ground 122 I believe this last count of folks focused on interfacing with customers.
And we have -- our loan book has now grown in the interim time here to about 1.5 billion and is pretty much on track with sort of what our expectation was when we sort of set out to do this.
And the teams are working very well together.
So it’s not just commercial bankers we’ve got very strong team of wealth professionals from Wilmington Trust.
We have basically mortgage folks; we have the full complement.
What will be added to that is our presence in the branches which tends -- obviously is a benefit to commercial but it will be a real benefit to business banking lending.
And so my sense is we’ve got a nice pace of growth there from commercial and commercial real estate -- in the commercial real estate space.
It will be nice to get a boost from the business banking side as well.
So I don’t anticipate any difficulty in building out an M&amp;T bank in New Jersey.
And then how should we think about the trajectory for the mortgages on the balance sheet? You guys obviously ran it down decently this quarter and Hudson City has been running theirs down; it seems like 3% to 4% a quarter.
Should we kind of expect those kind of trends to continue or is there anything else we should think about from the mortgage on the balance sheet side? No I don’t think so.
I think the model that Hudson City ran particularly with the volume and the volume includes use of brokerages is for us will be discontinued so that will reduce in that balance sheet streaking over time.
And I don’t -- I mean it’s sort of a random walk.
So look at current prepayments fees look at how the portfolio has been paying down over the last six months and that’s where I would focus my attention.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
My first question is just a little bit of more detail on the standalone guidance that you gave René.
You made a significant amount of -- continued to make significant amount of progress on the expense front for standalone M&amp;T.
And I am wondering as we think about the $200 million in other costs of operations is that a sustainable number going forward or how much more savings do we think can come out of that line? So I think at this point in time what we are doing in terms of looking at efficiencies is we’re examining our whole operations and not any one particular line item on the balance sheet.
So that could come all the way through the categories from salaries and benefits all the way through that the other operating expenses that you mentioned.
We maybe a little bit high today in professional services which still amount of -- some measure of work going on in the compliance and responses that we need to complete; little bit around CCAR that we need to complete.
But as that goes away you’ll see that we report into IT.
So as an example our total IT expense I think from second to the third quarter was up $8 million.
You see that total expenses are flat.
That’s essentially what’s been happening.
So other expenses have come down but we’ve redeployed that into investment in IT.
That’s the type of thing that I would expect to keep happening.
But I think -- I don’t know that I would be solely focused on other operating expenses; I’d be focused on the whole picture.
So in that case is $654 million a good level set of a base that we should think about as we think about standalone M&amp;T from here? I don’t know.
In a very-very-very short-term sure; but in terms of what we’re really trying to do is we’re trying to get a positive spread between revenue growth and expenses.
So it could go higher depending on what our opportunities are.
I think it’s worth we’ve been looking a little bit back at where we’ve been to kind of come up with our thoughts there.
And Don and Andy and I looked at every quarter going back three years and we looked at our performance on each category relative to our peer group which is 12 institutions.
We basically came out on top in terms of revenue growth over that period.
And we came out in terms of PP&amp;R so revenue minus expense; we came out top quartile.
One of the things that’s been noticeably different is we have been continually -- we’ve not taken our down our allowance and you’ve seen that we provided more in our allowance.
And that’s a bit of a different trend than we’ve seen in the performance of peers that they sort of have taken their – right-sized their allowance to some degree.
So when we look at it we kind of think to ourselves okay boy we wish our overall performance over that period was a little bit better in terms of EPS.
But at the end of the day in terms of the strength of the franchise we’re doing pretty well on the revenue growth front in a tough environment.
So our goal would be able to keep -- to try to keep doing that and which would mean that maybe we would grow expenses slightly but as long as we grow them slower it will keep us on our mission.
And just one last one on Hudson City as you mentioned the accretion to tangible book value and regulatory capital is going to be greater than expected.
And you plan to return or thinking about returning that excess back to shareholders.
In your understanding of the CCAR process is the capital that you are going to accrete from that deal outside of the regular course of M&amp;T business going to be looked at separately by the regulators in CCAR as they think about how much of your earnings that you could payout in 2016? Well I think the way you need to think about it is prior to an acquisition your job is to on a pro forma basis bring the two organizations together and try to understand if it still fits the risk profile that you’re comfortable in running an institution.
And one of the biggest measures of that is that how does it fare under stressful conditions.
And so we’ve done that formally two times maybe three or four.
So our sense today is as we look at that we look at the combined institution.
Having said that we generate a lot of capital on our own and we’re now sitting with more capital than we had anticipated when we were running those stress tests and were doing that on a portfolio that will continue to run down and be right-sized to the size of the franchise.
So said another way we’re going to generate a lot of excess capital as we move forward.
And I think we just have to present that the right way.
And like always we may find opportunities to deploy it; if we don’t we got to figure out ways to make sure we get that back to the shareholders.
But I think based on our previous tests and kind of how we feel where we’ve been running recently we think when we complete the deal we’ll have quite a bit of excess capital.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt O’Connor of Deutsche Bank.
I want to follow up on the comment that including Hudson City there’d be a modest pressure to the NIM but little impact of it on net interest income dollars.
I just want to clarify that because obviously you’re adding $24 billion of assets and I would net of NIM pressure there’s still actual accretion to net and interest income dollars.
So maybe I heard that wrong.
Thanks Matt for that question; let me clarify.
So when we originally started out we had said that we bring the two institutions together.
It didn’t really have an effect on our printed net interest margin percentage.
And at that time we were de-levering all of the securities.
It seems like the most economical thing to do is to keep in the neighborhood of $2 billion of those securities and hang on to some of the borrowings.
And that’s almost like what we’ve been doing over the past two years of adding in those securities to corporate ratios.
So if you just look at that slightly higher than $2 billion trade we think that is kind of -- that is neutral to net interest income.
And then -- so therefore instead of being neutral when we bring the two institutions together we’ll be slightly lower in our net interest margin as a combined entity.
That more clear? Okay got it.
So including all $24 billion of assets the NIM will be a little bit lower; obviously you pick up a lot of dollars of the interest income then.
Yes exactly.
And then just coming back to the actual accretion what’s the tangible book value accretion that you estimate now and is that before after marks? Everything we said is after marks; it’s the end result; haven’t really said the number -- think about in the range of 3%.
Remember that when we first did the transaction when you use percentages the bank was a lot smaller and the capital was smaller so those dollar numbers are actually larger than what 3% or 4% would have produced three years ago.
And then just lastly as we think about the earnings accretion and what that gets us in terms of call it combined earnings power of company show we just take this quarter’s earnings; annualize it; maybe assume some modest growth of that and then mid-single digit accretion; and that’s good the starting point obviously without any benefit of higher rates or anything like that? I can’t pick for you the quarter to start with but I think you’re thinking about it the right way and that sort of why we talked about where we’ve been trending as a standalone organization.
And if we didn’t have Hudson City we try to tell you the things that we would be doing.
And I mean the operating leverage concept is that you can produce more on the bottom line then you get on you get on your top line but you can’t change the fact that we’re in a low revenue growth environment all the banks are in that same space.
So I can’t pick your starting point but just step back a bit I think that’s how you should -- that’s how I would go about it; that’s how we’re going about it.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Klock of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
So maybe just following up on the M&amp;T standalone guidance discussion you talked earlier about just the challenging revenue and in that sort of neighborhood so far you’ve seen about 2% revenue growth I guess from NII and from the fee income lines.
I guess what’s -- when you think about your projections for standalone M&amp;T into the next 12 months what kind of operating leverage are you trying to target? Are you trying target 1% to 2% positive operating leverage or what -- I guess what’s the sort of thought process around if it’s going to be a 2% revenue growth environment does that you mean you are going be trying to keep expenses flat or how should we think about that? I like the idea that we were able to -- I think we got 1% to 1.5% improvement in efficiency ratio year-over-year and I think that -- let’s think about this way if you did that every other year you defiantly have the lowest cost structure in the industry.
And that was probably 2% or so.
So if you can get 1% spread over a long period of time it gives you a tremendous advantage that might be we shoot for that but as long as we get positive operating leverage -- any positive operating leverage is a good thing.
I think you’re looking at to how challenging it’s been and obviously the expense you guys have put in BSA/AML is still pretty impressive when I think about the returns you have generated versus your peers.
So I am looking forward to having you guys focus on what you do well and getting those costs down and integrating the deal.
I guess on a follow-up side of this on the Hudson City impact you mentioned mid-single-digit accretion of ‘16 but it sounds like from the timing of layering in the integration and obviously in some of the LCR stuff that seems to be early in the year do you think that by the time we get to the back half of ‘16 that we might be maybe upper single digits to accretion as your run rate into ‘17 or how should we think about that? I think there are two things to think about.
I think the first one you’ve got which is that we can’t get expense savings until we get through the integration.
So you’ve got that which I wouldn’t expect to see -- really benefits of that really until the second quarter.
And then on the other side of it this is the real banking work; we’ve got to change the mix.
So balance sheet there was ballooned with more mortgages than we would have practically carried which means that you’re relatively aggressive in your deposit pricing.
And you’re only using time.
But for us as over time we convert that to sort of the full-service commercial type bank we should be able to get some synergies from bringing on more non-interest bearing deposits and those more sort of core business and consumer deposits.
That will take some time but that’s what our job is.
And then last question it has been pretty challenging from a commercial growth perspective for the industry this quarter; it’s been seasonally soft.
Obviously you’ve pointed out the dealer floor plan which is seasonally soft.
Obviously the fourth quarter for dealer floor plan comes back I guess what you think about your core sort of middle-market C&amp;I customer and maybe can talk about what you’re seeing in the pipeline and for the fourth quarter? It’s interesting.
We gather all the commentary from every single region every quarter we sit down and we chat.
And the as I look at it this quarter it’s been the quietest ever since.
And what I mean by that is it’s not like the competition is abated but when you look spreads particularly in what we call middle-market which is mostly C&amp;I most of the regions had decent originations and from a roll-on margin perspective it was not different from the previous quarter; so there wasn’t continued pressure there or increasing pressure.
My sense is that our sales force has done a very very nice job.
And it doesn’t change the competitive environment.
But I can’t imagine that we would see it slowing in any way shape or form.
I mentioned it in the comments that we’re really pleased to see the mid-Atlantic kind of have another quarter growth which seems like those guys on the ground there have really sort of turned it around from where we were a couple of years ago.
So things look pretty good.
The one trend that we saw that we’ve been sort of internally talking about which is the long-term trend is we saw a number of payoffs in Western New York and the largest of those were companies being taken out by private equity firms and financed outside of our bank.
So that’s a trend that you step way back in non-bank lending private equity in those spaces had an impact on the industry.
And I think that might continue.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey of FBR.
Thinking about loan growth I know you talked about sort of continued attrition on the resi book.
If I look at M&amp;T standalone you’ve grown loans about $3 billion over the last year.
Hudson City has seen just north of that in loan attrition.
Is it fair to think that on a combined basis you guys are more or less flat over the next 12 months? I don’t know -- I mean I don’t think you’re thinking about it wrong but I just think look at the prepayments fees there.
I think you’re right; our outlook for the loan growth is not any different than we’ve been running.
And we’ve been running at about 5% loan growth annually.
Don and I talked about it before but we’ve been slightly ahead of that.
And I think what’s important is we’ve been doing that with very limited margin compression.
So not just the loan growth it’s can you do it with rationale rates.
So.
I would guess we are able to stay there.
Shifting gears back to kind of the capital question you guys really emphasize you’re going to generate a lot of capital going forward and you are starting off in a stronger place in terms of equity accretion than when the deal was announced.
How are you thinking now about the potential to use the share repurchase authorization in your 2015 CCAR test now that you’ve got the approval and Hudson City will close pretty quickly here? Process-wise what it makes us think about Bob is it’s obviously worth it to continue to invest and focus on our CCAR process because while we’re all used to historically just looking at it from a quantitative perspective the gate-keeping is all around the qualitative.
So we’ll continue to put heavy emphasis in that area making sure that we continue to make good progress there and keep up with what the best standards are in the industry.
And then I think we’re well below the payout ratios even with what we submitted and got approved last time.
We’re sort of at the low-end ratio with total payout of our peers.
So my sense is that has to get normalized.
But even after that I think given the circumstances that we’ve just talked about if didn’t think about some other opportunities capital would continue to grow.
So we’ve got to think about that strategically.
But I would expect that we’ll try to normalize our payout ratios with the rest of the industry.
I guess what I’m saying is given that position it sounds like you all are inclined to use the $200 million of authorization you’ve got this year? The way you asked that question we don’t have any different -- we don’t have any different thoughts than when we submitted our plan.
Okay.
I guess -- and maybe I don’t remember right I thought originally when you all had submitted the plan the thought was you want to get Hudson City done first but you did want to have this out there and sort of see how the year progressed and would sort of assess… I see what you’re asking; yes that’s absolutely true; that’s exactly the same.
Getting the integration behind us is sort of a watershed event for us.
So we’ll get that behind us and then think about how we move forward there.
But it’s not different from what I was saying earlier.
Okay.
Any thoughts on other bank M&amp;A now that this deal has finally got an approval? The only thought I have is number one we’re going to focus on the integration of this deal.
We think we’ve got it well under control and that it’s not likely -- it’s likely to go pretty smoothly.
And then on that basis I guess the thing I would just sort of reiterate is that despite how much capital you have sitting around we don’t do transactions unless they make a lot of economic sense.
And so doing them for the sake of doing them doesn’t have much appetite for us.
So we’ll just have to see what comes up.
But our first priority is to sort of finish our risk work and integrate this transaction and a lot of work on the ground in New Jersey.
So we’re happy about that.
I guess I would say from what I know today we’re relatively content with the work we have in front of us.
Last question and I’ll hop out.
But just on the FDIC assessment line can you remind us what the expectation is for the FDIC insurance expense with Hudson City in there both I guess in the fourth quarter and then I think that that rate sort of gets reevaluated; I just can’t remember exactly how it works.
I’ve got a lot of blank stares around the table.
Okay.
We can circle back up on that offline I guess.
Yes sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Can you talk about how far Hudson City is currently from where you think you’ll need to get it so that you have the kind of branch density that you’ve historically had in your core markets where I guess convenience has been one of the factors that has enabled you to enjoy below market funding costs? It’s a great question.
I mean let me start off by saying if you’ve got a publish an investor presentation somewhere in the next 30 days but when you look at the branch presence that we get with 130 branches which are not all in New Jersey some complement -- there’s some complement -- we’re in Connecticut for the first time.
We have very-very nice complement on Long Island.
So when you look at what happens on Long Island from the Hudson City branches combined with the M&amp;T branches I think you get a meaningful change there.
And I’m starting on a smaller end.
And then if you actually think about Philadelphia we were in Philadelphia; then we did Wilmington which gotten more of a presence and we get a few branches in Philadelphia again which helps the density over time.
If I go back 15 years ago everybody would ask what are you doing in Philadelphia.
Over time that changes and that density matters a lot.
New Jersey I think we’re in a good starting position I forget it was fourth or fifth deposit share we like to be in the top two or three.
And we think that if you’re in the top two or three you get meaningful -- make a meaningful difference.
So my sense is we have work to do there over time but just think about it today I think we have in the neighborhood of -- I’m going to get this wrong 700 branches to 800 branches -- 700 somewhere in that neighborhood.
So adding a 130 is significant.
And so I think it gets us off to a pretty good start.
It’ll take some time but we’ll start -- it’ll make a difference especially relative to last year.
Switching over to some of the accretion impacts that you ran through earlier if we set that aside those immediate impacts and just kind of look forward a little bit longer term can you talk about what are you most excited about and where you see the greatest opportunity from a P&amp;L perspective? Yes I don’t know if I can do it from a P&amp;L perspective but what I’m most excited about is the significance -- significantly outsized level of opportunity for small businesses middle-market companies in New Jersey in terms of density versus our existing footprint.
And we’re not coming in sort of thinking about we’ve just bought some branches and we’re going to work out we’re coming in with a full-service bank.
So we have the ability to meet the needs of those.
And we think we’re differentiated in our approach relative to the existing institutions that serve those markets today.
So it’s not one line item.
I think that the way in which we’re going to be able to come in with our product set which is now much broader than it was 15 years ago my sense is that I’m really really looking forward to becoming a really a well-known productive member of those communities.
The other thing I’m excited about is we add a lot of employees on the ground in New Jersey.
And adding significant amounts of people is really what makes us notable in a community.
It’s not just the guys that are out there making loans it’s that we begin to have the ability to have people in all kinds of the sort of organizations that improve the quality of life in New Jersey and we try to become part of the fabric.
So it’s hard to say it’s going to be across the board but that’s what I’m most excited about it should be a lot of fun.
And switching gears to the fee income line I wanted to follow up on some of the comments that you made about the softness that was on mortgage banking revenues this quarter.
Can you frame for us what kind of run rate for standalone M&amp;T we should be thinking about going forward in -- broadly in the fee income line? Yes.
So I gave you the impacts of the decline little less than half in retail; half in commercial.
On the retail side we’ve been moving along -- part of that decline was in our mortgage servicing book; and then short-term you could see that stay at those levels.
But we do have as I mentioned the appetite and the capacity at some point should the opportunity arise to do more in that space.
So when you think longer term my sense is as long as we remain a strong servicer through with strong policies and performance that we have today that could be a bigger space for us and provide some upside to where we’re running.
If you go to the commercial side a lot of the decline was really caused by the cap.
So the business is running along I would suspect that in that business across the industry you saw probably the similar decline.
In our case maybe it was a little bit more and I think we’re at the lower levels that we’ve seen in the long time.
So even despite the cap my sense is that we could still a little bit of a rebound there as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott.
I just want to go back your commentary about the 24% in cost saves that you are anticipating.
I just wanted to clarify because I think going back to your comments a while back when the deal was announced it looks like a lot of those costs were associated with technology related and similar type costs.
So should I expect that you realize those in Q4 and then Q1 2016 onwards you have that cost reduction all baked in; is that the way to think about it? Because I think those were related to data processing and service agreements and the like.
So I just want to clarify that.
The sort of base elements of what you’re saying are correct but remember unlike what we have done in our history we couldn’t this time do a simultaneous merger conversion.
So we need all that technology.
The bank will run on its existing technology through conversion which doesn’t take place until the first quarter.
So post that when we’re not using those services those services post the first quarter will be performed by M&amp;T.
And then just thinking about the timeframe obviously it’s been two years now and you’ve finally got the approval to close on the deal.
But relative to your initial expectations I would’ve thought between then and now that there might have been additional areas where you could have maybe realized or thought about more operating efficiencies and the like so that when you close the deal you’d probably get more of the benefit in that regard than you might have initially expected.
So was it just a function of the deal kind of dragging on and the fact that maybe Hudson City couldn’t make the changes it needed to in anticipation of the deal that might result in less cost savings or the same cost savings relative to what you’d have estimated? I was just wondering why there couldn’t be more in savings just given the fact that you’ve had more time to work through operational issues and the like.
So it’s really really -- it’s a great question.
It’s really really important to understand that in today’s environment until you have approval you really can’t go anywhere near that other institution you run totally separately and you don’t have any influence over the management whatsoever.
And that’s not a gray area at all.
So we have not been engaged in any of that type of activity.
I think the other thing is that really where a lot of the -- all of our areas are fantastic but there are very few places where you get the full force of an M&amp;T like banking experience where you don’t have a lot of branches.
So the idea that we now are bringing on the branches all those branch employees I think that actually will give us a lot more opportunities in time to be thinking about that.
And they’re not -- don’t think about it all as in this particular case as expense reduction; think of it as opportunities to sort of apply broader services to that same set of customers who today are using really basic time accountings.
They all have banking account relationships.
They’re not just doing their full-service banking with Hudson.
And then just a question again just going back to the yields on your C&amp;I loans and I think you referenced also growth in indirect auto.
And indirect auto in particular has been an area where people have talked a lot in the prime side about margin compression yield compression; and on the C&amp;I side of course you saw some yield compression.
And I would say that that has been a little bit mixed.
And I think you’ve been seeing yields coming down but were you surprised by the magnitude of your decline in the yield sequentially because there seem to be some banks talking about now finally some stabilization in yields on the commercial side.
So if you can just talk about your C&amp;I yield ex where you ended up relative to expectations and then on the indirect auto why pursue growth here when that’s one of the most competitive areas out there? So just to get your thoughts would be helpful.
It didn’t feel to me like we had significant compression.
Obviously when we look at C&amp;I yields we look -- we net out the prepayment fees and things like that the first fees.
And as I look at not the balance sheet but we’ve spent a lot of time I’ve got a deck of looking at all the new loans that are coming onto the system.
As I said earlier they came on at spreads that were pretty consistent with the last two quarters.
So I didn’t see a big change there.
I would agree I would agree that -- let me say it this way it won’t take much of a rate increase at all for all that margin compression to go away.
And I kind of feel like even with where there is speculation about rates increasing the actual market rates increase and I think it benefits us.
So my sense is that a lot of what we had seen a year or more ago has slowed down.
But I think the pricing on loans I don’t expect the margins to be able to go up.
But I think the overall movement in the balance sheet stays sort of where it is now unless we get a little increase in rates.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I just want to congratulate you again on getting the approval for Hudson City after a long time finally good to see that.
So thanks for your comments.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Just a couple of follow-ups first on credit losses.
I realized your point that year-to-date losses are pretty -- in terms of the ratio are basically right on top of where they were last year.
But just looking at this quarter versus the last quarter was there any clean up in the portfolio that you were looking at ahead of the Hudson City transaction or is that -- was that basically a one-off or two-off this quarter that you don’t expect to continue given what appears to be guidance for pretty stable credit performance going forward on a M&amp;T standalone basis? No there is no such thing as cleanup at M&amp;T.
As we see things we record them.
But I what I would say is that just think about it this way.
If you take the second and third quarter and merge them together I think you come out with a charge-off rate of 18.5 basis points.
So the message has been incredibly stable in terms of any way you look at it we seem to be running about 19 basis points.
So my sense is unless we see some change in the economy or that over a long periods of -- over a while will be there.
Now having said that I think our lowest charge-off rate in my time is 16 basis points.
So it doesn’t get much lower than this and our average is 37.
So these are the points in time when you typically would see that we’re at a place where each quarter we’ve added a little bit to the allowance because you’re kind of as good as it gets.
And you got to start making sure that is as things are frothy out there particularly with the other bank with other lenders and particularly with non-bank lenders the competitiveness tends to cyclically turn around and produce issues on credit.
And so we’re sort of looking forward there and you’ve seen us add a little bit to our allowance over time.
That would be pretty typical because we’re sort of at lows in charge-off experience and eventually that has to turn around.
The other thing I’d mention maybe it’s -- Matt you’re seeing a sort of statistically stable level of charge-offs coming out of the consumer portfolios but commercial charge-offs come when they come.
And there was a very low level of commercial charge-offs in 2Q and just a couple of loans that the charged off in 3Q.
Understood that’s helpful.
And then René you mentioned your focus is in -- is really turning to tech investments with sort of the incremental investment dollar that you’re creating with some savings elsewhere.
Can you give us a little more color as to what areas those tech investment are going to focus on? I think you’ve mentioned CCAR as being an area where you still want to make sure that your processes are continuing to improve but are there other investments maybe in the retail product side or other areas that you are also targeting? Yes.
So there are four to five general themes that make up our technology plan.
Just sort of generally speaking one theme is integrated risk and regulatory compliance reporting of platforms making sure all of our regulatory activities are sitting on the same platform; rethinking of our integrated sales and service capabilities not by line of business but across the board.
We’re looking at a lot around origination account opening on onboarding frameworks for the institution.
We’re looking at a whole another category which is employee experience reducing the work and time -- administrative time that our employees have to spend.
And then finally another line of category is sort of things that allow us to have a 360 degree view of the customer.
So to give you some more specifics I mean couple of things that we’ve been -- in the works for a little while now is one of the things we’re doing is we’re developing a framework for centralized management and linking of customer data to create an enterprise customer hub.
So we’ve never really had a full-service enterprise customer hub.
It will take a long time to get there but we’ve been spending money moving in that direction and think of a platform that all of each individual business could use regardless of where the customer comes in.
On the regulatory front and more we’re doing a lot around enterprise data management.
We’ve got a large data quality initiative going on.
And really what we’re trying to do there is to position the bank’s data sources for scalability and usability.
And initially we think that helps us you know strengthen our reporting and our regulatory front but ultimately we think that helps us have higher integrity around our customer data.
And we think as we move forward that will be a big-big benefit.
Many of these things are -- you mentioned the customer side we’re doing a lot around the expansion of our online banking platform to include things like mobile banking alerts analytics and the like and also technology that could be used in the branch network as well to supplement the branch network like remote check deposits and so forth.
So the way I’d say is we’ve got a very large framework it’s not in one area but we just think that given where we are these types of efforts are going to be key for us to be much more efficient over time.
The banking industry as a whole has not been at the forefront of technology investment but we think in the future you really need to sort of -- that will be one of the biggest competitive advantages.
Sounds like no opportunity to sit still.
The final question I have is you mentioned you’re growing presence in Long Island in Connecticut partly helped by the HCBK transaction.
And also your ideal market share is usually top two or three in most markets.
It doesn’t appear that you’re very close to that in either Connecticut or Long Island.
Is that an area over time that you would like to grow into a number two or number three or is that -- does that target really not apply to those markets? No I think that economics of banking they don’t change.
It matters that you’ve got a very strong market position to be an outperformer there.
But having said that I think if you’d asked Bob Wilmers when is the first time you thought about the idea that you could have a bank in New Jersey it would have been a long long time ago and not -- but the opportunities -- the right opportunities with the right people don’t just come around every day.
So you really can’t predict that.
So those are all markets that we like a lot that are very attractive.
And at some point in time it’s the right opportunity were to present itself so we go there.
But it’s not a predictable thing.
I think we wanted to be in New Jersey for decades.
Our next question comes from line of Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
René you mentioned that the tangible book value accretion call it 3% or so if I heard right I just wanted to square that up with the $2 billion of borrowings that you guys plan on keeping.
Normally I would assume that if you refinance the $2 billion from Hudson that would’ve incurred a fairly large charge given the long duration nature of the liabilities.
How much is not refinancing those securities adds to tangible book value if that makes sense? No.
So the way you think about it is the step one you mark everything to market so that gets -- that charge that you’re talking about we will take it is the same charge.
But now when you’re sitting on your balance sheet you have those same liabilities or should be exactly what you could go out and fund in the market so they’re substitutable.
So we will take the charges; that won’t change.
So almost you could almost think about it as getting new funding.
Market prices shouldn’t be any different.
The one thing I would tell you Ken is that relative to when we started Hudson City had a lot of MBS and those types of things.
That’s kind of been mostly replaced with cash and treasuries.
So a lot of the execution risk that you had way back then is now gone and should be pretty executable.
And then in terms of the timing of selling the -- the security say you will be selling; is that something you can actually get done by year-end or are you going to be holding some of those in the first quarter.
We think we can probably get the majority of it done by year-end.
We will be doing most of it as you said in the first quarter and we will watch to make sure that we don’t have any disruption in the markets there.
But I think that’s our expectation that we’ll have the majority if it done by year-end.
So first quarter should have more of a normalized NIM? Okay.
I Think so.
Our next question comes from line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hey one clarification also on the accretion.
So you mentioned that mid-single-digit to operating earnings I’m assuming there’s also some amortization that will come with the Hudson City deal that’s not included in that number.
And since it’s been such a long time since we’ve gotten that update I know we got that February 8-K that talked about it being I think about $19 million for year one; does that still ring true now that you’ve kind of gotten to the end point here? Yes I mean -- I’m not sure I fully understand your question but I think… I’m basically just saying your comments about operating EPS accretion; the way you usually do operating is ex-amortization.
And I’m assuming that with the Hudson City acquisition you will have some intangible amortization.
I’m just wondering if you can quantify that for us.
Yes I can’t quantify.
So I’ll take a look at that and see if I can get that in our deck in November.
But I think it’d probably be better to mention that after we finally finalize all the marks which will be in November 1st NIM.
And then this then might run to that also because I was just wondering then originally the cost saves were going to be you’d said originally three years ago $55 million of absolute saves.
And just wondering again can you just refresh us please? That number was ex the FDIC expense declines that were expected and then just relative to that $55 million are you bigger smaller different? Because you talked about in percentage terms and I’m just wondering if you could talk about it in dollar terms.
Yes that’s a good question.
I don’t know if I’m ready to talk about it that way.
I guess the way I think about it is we separated that out.
I would think that you are going to see Hudson City’s FDIC expense normalized to ours and those rates should be about the same.
And so that’s how I would do that.
And then what we kept separate is we talked about being about 24% of the expense base but that was net of the adds that we had.
So I think we can do -- I think our number will be slightly better than that because it is already higher than most of the folks that we need.
And then just two things on the quarter first of all anything notable and just the other fees other income in fees was decently above trend; were there any one timers in there this quarter? I think that the way I think about it is we were up a little bit in gains from our commercial leasing business but we were also down in participations and down in syndications.
So from one category to the next different -- one time in the sense of the type of transaction but they’re all coming from our commercial base and my sense is that that’s a little lumpy from time to time.
And then last one just on the trust part of business you mentioned that sequential was mostly impacted by market levels and in the absence from the second quarter tax; that business ex the trade processing business sale still having a tough time growing.
And I’m just wondering anything strategic new or different to think about as far as you’re trying to level set on that business or is it really just a question of the market levels that are going drive growth from here? No.
I think we -- first of all I think we’ve done a lot of work there.
I think our plans are to continue to do a tremendous amount of work.
And it’s never going to be a high revenue growth business; it’s going to be more of a steady progression because you’re building these trusted relationships with individuals.
So it’s not something that happens over night; it’s capabilities that you continue to build.
And I think if you look at what’s happened over time and you factor in the fact that we had the market being down we were not immune to that.
To give you an example I think that in the periods -- between the pricing periods from the second quarter to where we price in the third quarter the S&amp;P was down more than 8% our customer portfolios saw a 3% decline in their market values.
So as long as we continue to perform like that we’ll build long-term relationships but you can’t get immune from the fact that the market goes down from time to time and that’s how you get paid into your fees.
So we feel very good.
I was just going to ask then like core growth ex the markets.
Can you give us a sense of how that’s been building? Is there -- relationship adds or core asset adds if you isolate the impact from markets? I mean we measure new sales volume and lost business and our retention rates are very very very high 98% 99%.
And every year since we’ve had Wilmington Trust our new sales have far outstripped any lost business.
So we continue to grow there.
And we’ve divested a couple of lines of business.
I think we’re really close to being done with those things that we don’t think are core.
But the core business is doing very well.
Our next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
I have three questions I wanted to ask you which are a little bit different.
One is the deposit costs at Hudson City are relatively high 75 basis points as of last quarter related to your deposit costs of 13 basis points.
I was just curious how you kind of plan going forward; you could either kind of let the interest rates go higher and keep their rates the same and therefore neutralize that way or you assuming rates are going to stay lower so you have to kind of migrate their rates lower to be more equivalent to your current market offering? Marty the way I think about it is we’ve got this wonderful opportunity in front of us.
We have all of these customers who have come to Hudson City for what it offered and we have an opportunity to go introduce ourselves to them.
And we are going to spend some time introducing ourselves to them and our other capabilities before we start dealing with rates.
That is always been the opportunity whether we were up in Syracuse in OnBank which was a thrift.
You’ve got to really use those capabilities so you can’t think too much financial early in the game.
And so over time maybe not the first year in your accretion estimates but over time you would have some ability to migrate to get a benefit from that but not immediately.
Yes exactly exactly.
The other question was when you looked at Hudson City’s loan portfolio being a very legacy mortgage portfolio it was really a defensive mechanism three years ago when you were thinking about rates not going up very rapidly.
We are actually still in kind of the same quagmire that we were three years ago.
Do you still look at it as that real defensive for the lower for longer scenario that we seem to be caught in right now? I think I understand what you’re saying.
I mean it still has the same impact on our asset liability position.
We’re really heavily asset sensitive; I think we go up 5 plus for 100 basis-point increase; we bring the two balance sheets together that takes two points off of that down to about three.
So it’s sort of we need long fixed assets and it marries up pretty well with our current position.
And then lastly you talked about as you built out your customer data warehouse for the AML/BSA that you would also be able to leverage that for your cross-sell within your own organization.
And also I was thinking even more when you went down into New Jersey you’d would have that tool behind you; I just didn’t know how you were thinking about leveraging that as you go and turn to the next page.
I think that’s right.
I think it’s a long-term effort.
Because I think you’ve got a focus on the most foundational things.
So it includes customer data the customer data for regulatory reporting purposes and credit purposes.
And once you get through those stages of coming up with the language and governance around those things that’s what will make the data more flexible and usable for the customers.
So I think that might be a second stage impact.
I think what’s probably -- what a more immediate term is the idea that regardless of where -- let’s say a commercial customer were to come into the institution if our current commercial RMs were to know about that if they were able to get access to their private banking capabilities in addition to their business stuff if they were able to get access to the retail accounts or access to their relationship with what relationship that customer has with Wilmington Trust that actually to me as much more immediate benefits around the cost shelves.
To feel integrated think about integrated statement.
So to me that’s a more -- that’s a near-term benefit than is the data and the information for us.
And any anecdotal kind of messaging? I know you haven’t been able to work with Hudson City’s management but like you’re saying any feelings from their part how their customers now waiting three years to have access to MTB’s products; how positive are the feelings or the process as you move in there now? I knew there would be a lot of excitement on the ground when we were able to announce the approval.
I was blown away by the expressions of interest first from our employees and their -- and the Hudson City employees.
And I’ve had a number of folks come up to me and say well I finally now will have an M&amp;T account because they were customers of Hudson City.
So I think the energy is very high.
I think we got to carry that to the field.
And my guess is we’ll get off to a good start.
Our next question comes from the line of David Darst of Guggenheim Securities.
René once you discontinue the broker mortgage business in New Jersey and across -- and that’s part of the New Jersey for them what’s left in New Jersey from a mortgage origination capability and is there an opportunity to more quickly replace some of that with your type of business and have some fee income? We’ll talk about that as -- we have on the -- and I forget the number but we have a fair number of mortgage folks on the ground already that have been doing that work so we haven’t had started there.
And then when you add those 130 branches we tend to be a big originator of mortgages are the branches I think you’ll begin to be able to introduce all of the services -- products and services that we typically do.
And looking here we have -- in all of the footprint that represents Hudson City we already have 29 mortgage bankers on the ground.
So we will continue to build that out.
We’ll be able to do maybe a little bit more as we complement that with our services to the branches.
And the way to think about it is we’re much more in the government space we’re in the -- think about us being much more heavily in the affordable mortgage space.
So in essence I think we’ll be doing a lot more on that front we will be a little -- will be very close to the community.
And that’s something that we’ve been very very well known for.
So it will look different the customers that we’re providing mortgages to will be I think of much broader array of customers.
And then just as far as the conversion occurs and late in the first quarter is it really going to be in the second quarter when you actually have the opportunity to improve the product set or can you do that prior to the conversion? Well on the ground you’re doing that already because we can do that through our M&amp;T employees.
So on a commercial bank we’re doing all those services cash management we’ve got a whole team of wealth managers there.
As I said we’ve got 29 mortgage bankers on the ground.
I just think those capabilities get enhanced.
So think about it this way.
We can do everything today but those branches -- we can’t do it through branches because they’re not equipped and staffed and trained with the ability to do that.
So it’ll be a boost is the way to think about it.
Correct beginning in the second quarter of ‘16 you’ll train everyone and launch it then.
Okay got it.
Yes.
And then we have this which I’m assuming we’re doing this time which is fun time thing which we call the branch buddy system.
So we send down whole bunches of M&amp;T bankers who are very familiar with the integration and acquisitions and they spend a lot of time with the existing branch folks that are there.
So it’s sort of hands-on training and hands-on introduction to the customers.
It’s worked really well.
And we think that sort of speeds up the ability to offer our products and services without a lot of disruption.
Our next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
A couple of questions for you René.
First you made a comment in talking about Hudson City that you’re planning not to use the broker channel for mortgage originations as they do.
Can you give us some color behind the strategic thinking of why you guys don’t use that channel? Well I mean I think for us it’s a little -- it’s going to sound funny but it’s a little bit more of a commodity type space where you’re not necessarily controlling the customer experience.
So it’s not like we could have done -- we could have added brokerage in New Jersey all along.
I think the way in which we approach our mortgage banking unit is the idea that more branch originated type M&amp;T originated type business.
We still have a better risk profile we can control the upfront -- who the customer is in the upfront underwriting and so forth.
There are some cases where on the risk side where we dabbled very lightly in the past on home equities and things like that with brokerage business and the risk profile wasn’t the same for us.
Now having said that Hudson City has done just a tremendous job in that space but we’re just not sure it fits our model.
Will we do jumbo mortgages? Yes.
We didn’t do very many of them in the past.
I think here we’ll continue to do those but we would prefer not to do them necessarily through brokers.
And quite frankly if you changed your mind you could do that at anytime it’s so commodity like.
Second is with the recent news of your neighborhood competitor hiring an investment bank to maybe look at different alternatives.
Is there been any change in the business environment for you in Western New York? No.
I mean we haven’t spent much time on that.
We’re -- all of us are spending time on what’s going on in the Buffalo and Western New York community.
And Gerard it’s a funny time.
I mean economically -- if you look at economic measures Buffalo is probably one of our fastest-growing footprints with all that’s going on there.
There’s a lot to keep us all busy a lot of new jobs being created here.
And so we are not really focused on those rumors and things like that.
I don’t think it benefits us to do so.
And then as a follow-up I think you may have touched on this in the Q&amp;A.
In the original slide deck for doing this deal with Hudson City you identified pretax $223 million in merger-related charges.
Is that still a good number to use today? That was -- that number included some things will go through acquisition accounting Gerard.
Not a change.
Right.
So the amount that’ll go through income statement is roughly unchanged.
Yes that’s both.
That’s part of things that would get market and things that would be one-time expenses but I don’t -- we don’t see any material change when we look at the numbers.
Yes.
And then another question on this time period that you’ve had to wait.
Mobile banking has grown very rapidly over this last three-year time period and the adoption of it is moving up quickly as you know from your own numbers.
Can you share with us -- has that changed any of your thinkings on how you’re going to implement Hudson City into M&amp;T and are there any potential benefits that now will be here that weren’t here three years ago because mobile banking wasn’t as successful? No I don’t think so.
I think it’s a -- those and capabilities like those have become very fundamental.
And so I don’t think of New Jersey as being different than Buffalo in that respect.
I think you just have to have those capabilities; your clients expect them.
But one thing is I think is maybe more relevant to the case of adding those technologies is probably the whole issue around cyber security and security trends.
I mean you really really have to be buttoned down as all these new technologies come out; I mean the bad guys keep up with things.
And so why do I mention that? New Jersey has a bit of a higher natural incidence of fraud and those types of things.
So we watch that very closely relative to other footprints and make sure that the products that we offered are adapted for that.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Spahr of CLSA.
I kind of have derivative questions off of Marty.
The deposit trends or interest bearing deposits have been trending lower the last four quarters.
Is there any strategic reason behind that? Yes it’s matching the decline in sort of the natural rightsizing of the mortgage book so that will continue right.
And that sort of as you get that to more sustainable size think about no more originations and things like that that’s also a factor that will play into the deposit pricing.
And with the pending or the soon to close Hudson City deal should we expect a pickup in interest bearing deposits just given what Hudson City has been doing in the past? Pickup in the interest bearing deposits? I mean their balance sheet will come over.
Their trends probably from what you’re seeing on them standalone trend wise will probably stay the same.
And then we’ll introduce our product.
Now in different rate environments typically in a rising rate environment we’re much more dependent upon -- and our customers who are seeking yields are much more dependent on time accounts.
So will rates go up and the rate environment would change yes.
I mean you might turn that specific engine that right back on.
And that might actually give us from a substitute to wholesale a nice benefit because those markets are more vibrant so you can quickly raise dollars in a market like that versus some of our other markets.
We’ve long done in New York City.
And then one final question regulatory capital the comments for the benefit of the deal those are both in regards to CET1 and total capital or are they different? It was regulatory we said CET1.
At this time I am showing no further questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
MacLeod for any additional or closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release if necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code (716) 842-5138.
Good bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s M&amp;T Bank’s third quarter 2015 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the M&amp;T Bank Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Don MacLeod Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jackie and good morning.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in M&amp;T’s fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call both by telephone and through the webcast.
If you have not read the earnings release we issued this morning you may access it along with financial tables and schedules from our website www.mtb.com and by clicking on the investor relations link.
Also before we start I’d like to mention that comments made during this call might contain forward-looking statements relating to the banking industry and to M&amp;T Bank Corporation.
M&amp;T encourages participants to refer to our SEC filings including those found on forms 8-K 10-K and 10-Q for a complete discussion of forward-looking statements.
Now I’d like to introduce our Chief Financial Officer René Jones.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
As noted in this morning’s press release we were pleased with our progress in what proved to be a very busy quarter.
The overall financial performance was strong and we completed the merger with Hudson City Bancorp which was immediately accretive to M&amp;T’s net operating earnings risk-based capital ratios and tangible book value per share in-sync with our earlier projection.
I’ll review a few highlights of the quarter and the year including some perspective on how the merger impacted our results for the quarter.
And then we’ll share our thoughts on the outlook after which Don and I will be happy to take your questions.
Turning to the results diluted GAAP earnings per common share were $1.65 for the fourth quarter of 2015 compared with $1.93 in the third quarter and $1.92 a year earlier.
The decline came as a result of merger-related charges in connection with the Hudson City transaction.
Net income for the quarter was $271 million compared with $280 million in the linked quarter and $278 million in the year-ago quarter.
In order to assist investors in understanding the impact of merger activity on its financial results M&amp;T provides supplemental reporting of its results on a net operating or tangible basis from which we exclude the after-tax effect of the amortization of intangible assets as well as expenses and gains associated with mergers and acquisitions.
After-tax expense from the amortization of intangible assets was $6 million or $0.04 per share per common share in the recent quarter compared with $3 million and $0.02 per common share in the prior quarter and $4 million and $0.03 per common share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase in the recent quarter reflects amortization associated with the $132 million of additional core deposit intangible created through the Hudson City Merger.
Included in the fourth quarter results were significant merger-related charges including $76 million of noninterest expenses and a $21 million provision for credit losses for the acquired Hudson City loan portfolio.
I’ll discuss the accounting for the acquired loans in a few moments.
Combined these items amounted to $61 million after-tax or $0.40 per common share.
There were no such charges in the previous quarter or the year earlier quarter.
M&amp;T’s net operating income for the fourth quarter which excludes merger-related items and the intangible amortizations that I just mentioned was $338 million increased from $283 million in the linked quarter and $282 million in last year’s fourth quarter.
Diluted net operating earnings per share were $2.09 for the recent quarter an increase of 7% from $1.95 in both the previous quarter and the year-ago quarter.
Net operating income yielded annualized rates of return on average tangible assets and average tangible shareholders’ equity - common shareholders’ equity of 1.21% and 13.26% for the recent quarter comparable returns were 1.18% and 12.98% in the third quarter of 2015.
In accordance with the SEC guidelines this morning’s press release contains a tabular reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results including tangible assets and equity.
Looking to the balance sheet and the income statement Hudson City added about $24 billion of total assets after our restructuring which included $19 billion of loans and $18 billion of deposits.
Over the four days immediately after the closing we retired $10.6 billion of Hudson City’s borrowing which was funded by the sale of $5.8 billion of investment securities and the remainder by Hudson City’s cash on hand.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $813 million for the fourth quarter of 2015 up from $699 million in the linked quarter and $688 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase includes approximately $110 million of net interest income attributable to Hudson City.
The net interest margin was 3.12% during the quarter down 2 basis points from 3.14% in the third quarter.
Our explanation of the decline is relatively simple this quarter.
We estimate that the inclusion of Hudson City diminished the margin by about 3 basis points.
On the core side - on the core M&amp;T side we estimate there was 1 basis point expansion as pressure on the core margin was more than offset by rising short-term interest rates which included an increase in short-term LIBOR rates in advance of the Fed’s December action.
Average total loans increased by $13.3 billion from the linked quarter primarily reflecting the partial quarter impact from Hudson City.
Substantially all of the Hudson City loans are residential mortgage loans.
Thus the acquisition had limited impact on growth in the other loan categories.
Growth in each of those other loan categories was solid on an average basis compared to linked quarter.
C&amp;I commercial and industrial loans increased an annualized 6% aided by the seasonal rebound in auto floor plan.
Commercial real estate loans increased by about 9% annualized.
Consumer loans grew an annualized 10% reflecting continued growth Indirect Auto.
While lending conditions on the commercial side remains very competitive with pressures from both bank- and non-bank-lenders loan demand remains healthy bolstered by repeat business with existing customers who value our relationship approach to lending.
We continue to see strong results in the commercial bank in our metropolitan region which includes New York City as well as Pennsylvania and Baltimore - as well as Pennsylvania and Baltimore.
Growth was somewhat softer in upstate in Western New York.
Average core customer deposits which excludes deposits received at M&amp;T’s Cayman Islands office CDs over $250 000 and brokered deposits increased 16% un-annualized from the third quarter primarily reflecting the impact from the acquisition.
Noninterest income - now turning to fees noninterest income or fee income totaled $448 million in the fourth quarter up from $440 million in the linked quarter contributing to fees from - the contribution to fees from Hudson City was not significant.
Mortgage banking revenues were $88 million in the fourth quarter compared with $84 million in the third quarter.
Residential mortgage banking revenues declined by $6 million the majority of which is attributable to a 23% reduction in residential mortgage loans originated for sale.
Commercial mortgage banking revenues were up $10 million from the prior quarter reflecting a solid quarter of multifamily FHA origination.
Service charges on deposit accounts were $106 million little changed from $107 million in the third quarter.
And trust income was $115 million in the recent quarter slightly improved from $114 million in the previous quarter.
All other revenues from operation were $144 million up from $138 million in the third quarter.
Both the third and fourth quarters of 2015 were characterized by particularly strong commercial lending-related fees.
The recent quarter’s results included higher levels of syndication fees while the previous quarters’ results included a sizable gain on previously leased equipment which did not recur.
Turning to expenses operating expenses for the fourth quarter which exclude the expense from the amortization of intangibles and merger-related expenses was $701 million compared to $650 million in the third quarter.
Those operating expenses included approximately $40 million attributable to Hudson City.
The efficiency ratio which excludes intangible amortization and the merger-related expenses improved to 55.5% reflecting the two-month impact from Hudson City.
It is notable that on a full year-over-year basis adjusting for the merger and the sizable contribution to the M&amp;T Charitable Foundation made in this year’s second - last year’s second quarter total operating expenses were down slightly from 2014.
Next let’s turn to credit.
Overall credit quality remains strong.
Nonaccrual loans at the end of 2015 were $799 million up slightly from $787 million at September 30.
The ratio of nonaccrual loans to total loans was 91 basis points at year-end.
The significant decline in that ratio from September 30 reflects the addition of Hudson City’s loan portfolio.
Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter were $36 million improved from $40 million in the third quarter.
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of total loans were 18 basis points for the period with the ratio also benefiting from the addition of the Hudson City portfolio to total loans.
The provision for credit losses was $58 million for the recent quarter which includes the $21 million merger-related provision I mentioned earlier.
The allowance for credit losses was $956 million at the end of 2015 and reflects our assessment of the loss content in the loan portfolio.
The ratio of allowance to total loans was 1.09% which also reflects the addition of the Hudson City loan portfolio.
The loan loss allowance as of December 31 was 17 times 2015 - I’m sorry was 7 times 2015’s net charge-offs.
Loans 90 days past due on which we continue to accrue interest including loans acquired at a discount were $273 million at the end of 2015.
Of these loans $232 million or 85% are guaranteed by government related entities.
Before I leave credit I’d like to provide you with some background on the accounting for the loans that we acquired with Hudson City.
As you know GAAP requires acquired loans to be recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition with no carryover of the acquired entities allowance for loan loss.
That fair value reflects the use of interest rate and credit loss assumptions.
In connection with the Hudson City merger we recorded $19 billion of Hudson City loans held for investment at their estimated fair value.
Approximately $1 billion of those loans are classified as purchased impaired loans we recorded at a discount to par and are being accounted for under SOP 03-3.
The fair value of the remaining $18 billion of acquired loans exceeded the outstanding loan balance resulting in a net premium which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the loans as a reduction of interest income.
GAAP does not allow the credit loss component of that premium to be bifurcated and accounted for as a non-accreting difference as was the case in previous acquisitions when all loans were deemed acquired at discount.
GAAP also provides that an allowance for credit losses on loans acquired at a premium be recognized for incurred losses in that portfolio even though in a homogeneous portfolio of residential mortgage loans - the specific loans to which those losses relate cannot be easily identified.
M&amp;T believes that this accounting requirement results in an additional provision for loan losses that was already factored into the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date.
As a result the $21 million incremental provision has been characterized as a merger-related expense.
Hopefully that’s helpful.
Turning to capital our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under the transitional Basel III capital rules currently in effect was an estimated 11.06% at the end of the recent quarter up from 10.08% at the end of September.
Completion of the Hudson City merger added an estimated 80 basis points to that ratio.
Tangible book value per share was $64.28 at the end of 2015 up 5% from $61.22 at the end of September and up 13% from $57.6 at the end of 2014.
As a point of comparison over the past five years M&amp;T has grown tangible book value per share at a compounded annual growth rate of over 14% through a combination of organic growth and prudently priced expansion.
Next I would like to take a moment to cover the key highlights of 2015 results.
GAAP based diluted earnings per common share were $7.18 compared with $7.42 in 2014.
Net income was $1.08 billion up slightly from $1.07 billion in the prior year net operating income which excludes intangible amortization and the merger-related expenses was $1.2 billion improved from $1.1 billion in the prior year.
Diluted net operating earnings per common share was $7.74 up from $7.57 in 2014.
Net operating income for 2015 expressed as a rate of return on average tangible assets Before I turn to the outlook as many of you have seen on January 6 the U.S.
Attorney in Delaware took action against Wilmington Trust Corporation related to alleged conduct prior to M&amp;T’s acquisition of Wilmington Trust Corporation in 2011.
As the U.S.
Attorney noted in his press release this alleged activity relates solely to Wilmington Trust’s commercial banking operations during that time period.
While we are limited in our ability to discuss this matter it is important to note that we strongly believe that this unprecedented action is unjustified and Wilmington Trust intends to vigorously defend itself.
Now turning to the outlook as Don and I were saying yesterday the daunting task we undertake every January to offer you a projection of what we think will unfold over the coming year.
But in retrospect the thoughts we offered you on this call last year weren’t too far off from what actually occurred.
So here we go again.
I should first note that the end-of-period balance sheet is more representative of our run rate balance sheet than the averages for the fourth quarter given the November 1 effective date of the merger.
During the fourth quarter we saw a steady to positive momentum in the lending environment.
And as a result including the newly acquired loans from Hudson City we would expect low to mid single digit growth in total loans in 2016 with a slightly higher pace of growth in commercial and consumer loans partially offset by contraction in the residential mortgage loans as we expect that the Hudson City portfolio will continue to pay down.
The pace of payoff will obviously depend on interest rate.
Our outlook for the net interest margin is dependent on further actions by the Federal Reserve.
Given what the implied forward rate curve is telling us we’d expect the net interest margin for the full year of 2016 to be stable or slightly better than what we reported in the fourth quarter.
The full run rate impact from the addition of Hudson City’s balance sheet will be a modest source of pressure early in the year.
As we’ve seen over the past several years the impact of cash balances brought in through Wilmington Trust could have an impact on the reported margin but would be additive to revenue.
Excluding the impact from the sale of the trade processing business in 2015’s second quarter both the $45 million gain in the single quarter of revenue we earned prior to the divestiture we would expect flat to modest growth in noninterest expense and fees.
We expect pressure on mortgage banking revenues in a higher rate environment and continued industry-wide pressure on consumer service charges to be offset by growth in other fees assisted of course by higher short-term rates.
Regarding expenses in light of the limited revenue opportunities we’re looking to keep core expenses relatively contained continued investment spending including technology investment offset with savings elsewhere as other projects reach completion.
Our goal is to strive for positive operating leverage over the course of 2016.
As to Hudson City we’d estimate that an additional $40 million to $50 million of expense reductions will result from further actions we expect to take over the first-half of 2016 particularly the branch and systems conversion.
These should ultimately result in realizing the majority of our expected expense savings by June or let’s say the first-half of the year.
Separately we’d estimate that there are about $40 million of merger-related expenses remaining to be incurred the majority coming over the first-half of 2016.
Aside from the national news on energy lending which shouldn’t have a material impact on us we see no indication of a change in the credit cycle.
Net charge-offs amounted to just 19 basis points for the second year in a row which is roughly half the long-term average.
But as we said on this call last year our conservatism won’t let us count on beating that figure in 2016.
Income tax expense in the fourth quarter included a $4.6 million benefit from technology research credits related to prior years through 2014 which were approved by the IRS in December.
We know that the provision in the tax code providing for such credits was extended by Congress in December.
Any additional benefits in the future will depend on the size and type of technology investments that we make.
As you know the capital plan we submitted in connection with the 2015 CCAR process which received no objection from the Fed included $200 million of share repurchases in the first-half of 2016.
We expect to begin implementing that program shortly.
Lastly we will review our capital position with our board on both a nominal basis and under stress as we prepare our CCAR 2016 capital plan and stress test for submission to the regulators in early April.
We’ve got another year of earnings retention under our belts as well as the capital accretion from the merger.
Looking forward our expectation is that the Hudson City loan portfolio will continue to pay down moderating our overall loan growth.
And thus our pace of internal capital generation will remain high.
Those are our thoughts hope you’ll find them helpful as the year unfolds.
Let’s now see what happens.
Of course as you are aware our projections are subject to a number of uncertainties in various assumptions regarding national and regional economic growth changes in interest rates and credit spreads political events and other macroeconomic factors which may differ materially from what actually unfolds in the future.
Now let’s open up the call before which the instructor will briefly review the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Good morning Ken.
Hey good morning René.
Hey just two clarifying points on just how the two companies pulled together up just based on the fee side I just wanted to make sure I understood.
When you’re talking about hoping to keep fees pretty flat this year should we be thinking about the kind of the $440 million $450 million run rate for the last three quarters that ex that $45 million gain you had in the second quarter? I just want to make sure I wasn’t missing what you were saying about the pre-business-sale quarter.
Well I was just - I think what we were doing is looking at the full year 2015 and sort of taking out that unusual gain in that obviously the first quarter business that we had gain was $45 million.
And then we were just looking year-over-year.
As you know kind of as I look at the - going forward we’ve got decent loan growth.
We will be flat to some margin expansion.
So that gives you some single-digit revenue growth.
Yes.
And if we can get year-over-year a spread on that revenue versus expense growth then I think we get a little leverage there to the bottom line.
So that’s how I’m thinking of it year over year.
Yes perfect.
And then my second question is just on the expense side.
So you talked about keeping the kind of core M&amp;T flat.
You just have the natural growth coming with the addition of Hudson City minus the cost saves.
So again just trying to understand you pointed to - for the rest of the income statement starting kind of off of the fourth quarter.
But I don’t think that’s quite at what you’re saying here.
So how do we just think about the trajectory of where expenses start from if there’s a way you can help us get tighter there? Where expenses start? So again I think I start on the M&amp;T side with full year and think about year over year.
There’s nothing much unusual there except for maybe the $40 million tradable contribution that we had in 2015.
And that’s the basis from which I’m operating.
If you look at the fourth quarter results we gave you the number.
We said that that roughly $40 million of the operating expense came from Hudson City and that was two months.
And from there - there were some expense saves in those numbers.
But from there we estimate - from that run rate we estimate that we have actions to take that would add up to between $40 million and $50 million in annualized expense savings.
And that is net of the hires any additional hires that we would have to do related to Hudson City and New Jersey.
Okay.
So the $40 million is two months that’s about $60 million that includes a little bit.
That’s 240 million full year.
And then think about the $40 million or $50 million off of that.
But that’s a net number.
Yes.
Great.
Thank you René.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Schiraldi with Sandler O’Neill.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on the expense side just trying to think about efficiency ratio here and obviously you’re at that high-end at least for the quarter of 50% to 55% efficiency ratio.
As you extract those cost saves from Hudson City next year does that just alone result in further improvements for the efficiency ratio or are we more likely to see that benefit sort of show up in investment elsewhere all else equal? Yes I mean our goal is without Hudson City we try to maintain some level of operating leverage.
In that we’ve got a number of things that we’re doing to sort of optimize our operations.
And we’re hoping to put that money back into IT spending.
At the end of the day we’ll put the money back into IT spending regardless of how much progress we make in other areas because we think it’s really important.
So we’ve talked about that for some time.
When you think of the efficiency ratio when you think first of Hudson City I even done the math but you got one more month of Hudson City right? So there’s probably some additional impact on the efficiency ratio when you full three months in the quarter.
And then we have work to do to reduce - get the cost saves that we talked about.
One thing I would point out is that it’s not as if we’re getting those cost saves on January 1 right so you get the full year impact of $40 million to $50 million.
That’s the run rate impact that you’re going to get on an annualized basis after you’ve taken the action.
So that also should have an impact on the efficiency ratio.
When I look at our performance this past year I think we did a pretty good job of managing expenses but I also think quite frankly the improvements we saw in the efficiency ratio comes from the fact that we did have growth in revenues in a pretty tough environment in that spread-wide.
And when you think about it if you adjust for the charitable contribution and the gain from the divestiture we were 57% something in the second quarter.
We were 57.1% in the third quarter.
And I think it’s about 2 percentage points that Hudson City benefited our efficiency ratio.
So we’re running pretty well.
We had a pretty good year on both sides of the equation.
Sure and then just one follow-up on the - actually on deposit pricing.
Just when I look at New Jersey as a whole seems like there is a number of institutions particularly in that state that are deposit hungry so to speak.
And so just wondering is there a significant opportunity to improve margins with re-pricing of higher cost deposits at Hudson City or do you think you may have to defend share more by holding that pricing over the next call it 12 months? Yes so I think of it - I’ll break it into two pieces.
I think about it a little differently.
So we’ve got this very very large base of deposit customers who are primarily all the CDs.
So they’re single-service households for us.
And in that group we don’t have a big interest in necessarily rationalizing pricing so to speak because we really would like to get to know those customers.
I’ve got a couple of letters myself already couple of people introducing them to me.
And they clearly fit the profile of people we would love to have a more full-service banking relationship with.
So I think that will take a little time and I don’t think we’ll be hasty to do that at the outset of this year.
But then separately we do think there is a very large opportunity for full-service checking account relationships that we would typically hold.
And most of those relationships aren’t just a checking account.
They tend to have multiple products and services as we roll out our relationship banking approach.
So it’s sort of two and quite frankly really what we’re trying to do is is we get a nice shot of an introduction to those customers and we will be trying to convince them that we should be their primary bank for all of their deposit service.
So that means you can’t move too quickly to just treat it as a financial asset they’re customers.
Right understood.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Hi Marty.
Hey I want to ask you little bit about the way in which the premium on those loans that you brought over how that dynamic kind of work.
So that’s a little different than what we’ve seen so far with that accounting with the discounts that were in prior accounting.
As you bringing over the premium like you said you already had the negative accounting for.
But now you also had to put on allowance.
So will you have net charge-offs from those loans and go against the allowance that you created or - just was wondering how that will work logistically going forward.
Yes Marty that - yes.
So think of it this way.
Those loans that you acquire at a premium you are just not allowed to use the SOP discount accounting that you are used to in a lot of deals or that you saw in Wilmington.
We deemed Wilmington’s pretty much the whole portfolio to be purchased at a discount.
So what ends up happening is they get treated - and the loans at a premium are treated out of FAS 91 just like originated loans.
You have charge-offs as well.
So it will act more like a regular portfolio going forward which will make your statistics and metrics kind of look more normal versus being skewed.
Yes maybe our lives easier too.
Right right.
And then the other thing you mentioned and it was the second bank which they kind of keep my ear open.
But today we had - now that you’re the second bank to talk about LIBOR going up earlier in December and the benefits - like kind of think about or explain little bit more about that I have to check.
I don’t think - I think it was not quite.
It was obviously more than half but it moved up steadily and it might have been slightly below the full impact of the Fed increase.
But it started if I recall I think it started in late November.
It did started way early and if you look at the percent first in LIBOR versus prime what’s your percentage at this point of your whole loan portfolio floating loan portfolio? That’s a great question.
The fixed portion is about of our - you want just the loans or the total assets? Just the floating rate loans just the floating rate.
It’s about 51%.
So it would be - fixed rate loans would be about $35 billion out of the $88 billion.
And then you got to think of - you often think while we just brought on a lot of fixed rate mortgages we keep in mind that I think almost half of those are actually a variable rate or floating rate resets right.
So you don’t - it’s not quite intuitive but they’re not all fixed.
Got you.
Okay.
I think the other part of your question Marty is if you look at that in the variable rate space so the remainder will be about $52 billion $53 billion; $35 billion $36 billion are LIBOR based.
So those are the ones that began getting the benefits late November.
But you wouldn’t have seen anything in many of our prime rate portfolio so home equity portfolios because they look to December 31 and then go to the next re-price date which is different for each customer before they look back so would start to occur 30 days over the 30 days into January.
Good.
That was the mechanics I was looking for.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
Want to see if you can give us a little bit more color René on the loan growth front.
Just in general it appeared a little bit lighter when you exclude the impact of Hudson City a little lighter than what I was forecasting and if you’re seeing anything there for the quarter that impacted the level of growth and then separately on your outlook.
I know you indicated that commercial and consumer growth should strengthen through the year and just want to see what type of strengthening you expect within those portfolios.
Thanks.
Yes.
No I didn’t see we didn’t notice anything unusual in the loan growth.
I mean I characterize it as strong because I think the numbers were pretty decent growth.
But I also know that if I look to our loan committees I think we had the second highest loan production in the fourth quarter on the commercial side that we’ve seen in several years before fourth quarter.
So things look relatively healthy.
And as a way of reference and of course I’m going to get this wrong but I think year over year we’ve been running at 4% 4.5% loan growth or something like that.
So I think there is really no sign that it’s flowing.
In terms of the market it’s kind of interesting.
So we characterize it to still be intensely competitive as other banks are really offering better pricing and then sometimes structure than we’re able to.
But on the whole pricing in lowest market like it’s still coming down slightly it’s not stable but still coming down.
Smaller banks are routinely below 200 basis points in terms of margin maybe 150 to 160 basis points.
We’re seeing places where there is no recourse limited covenants and in some cases people waiving due diligence.
And so for us when we look at the growth a lot of times what we’re seeing is that we’re able to do fairly well but that’s coming primarily from existing client.
And they really focus on the fact that we’re relatively proactive.
We spend a lot of time with them.
We know their businesses.
And we’re fairly consistent regardless of what’s happening in the environment.
So that’s where most of our loans are coming from.
And each market is a little different.
And we’re trying to sort of make sure that we avoid any pitfalls from that like we’re not chasing people in a particular market without the knowledge to take on that customer.
I think I talked a little bit about it.
I don’t know if I have I have the number somewhere.
But we saw growth primarily in Philadelphia Tarrytown New York region.
We had growth that was about 4% annualized.
In a year-over-year basis that was about 6%.
We also saw Pennsylvania was about 4% and Baltimore Washington was about 2%.
And remember that Baltimore had been relatively slow for us.
So we’re pleased that that has actually continue to do pretty well.
The opportunity is different in every market.
In upstate New York which has been relatively slow there is a huge construction boom and that’s where most of the job on energy is coming from.
There is knock-on effects in the other businesses but that’s what’s driving it.
But if you get down to Washington DC it’s a different set of factor so it varies by region.
Okay that’s helpful René thank you.
And then separately just want to see how much you can comment on this.
Just wondering if you can give us an update on the status of your efforts to meet remaining parts of the regulatory agreement around the BSA/AML deficiencies just want to see where you stand there.
At least give us an idea of the timing maybe in terms of how long it could take to address the remaining parts of that.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thanks for the question John.
I’ll start by saying I’m not sure.
I think that we’ve got our BSA program well in hand and off and running.
We substantially completed everything that we think we need to do there and really what ends up to happen is you got to go through - you go through your normal annual exam cycle and make sure that you’re really buttoned down.
So we’re very heavily focused on that and remediating any additional customers that we have to which at this point of time would be all the low-risk category because of course through the course of last year we got through - we got through the high risk in moderate customers.
And obviously we have to do a really good job of making sure that as we put Hudson City on to our systems that all those capabilities at the conversion extend over too.
So we’re focused heavily on that.
The other piece I would put into perspective which is not directly related to the written agreement per se is that we continue to just focus on all of the rest of our risk management.
We think it’s really important whether it’d be in the compliance areas or whether it’d be in sort of modernizing or continuing to elevate our CCAR process.
So that’s where our focus is on and I think the written agreement over time will just take care of itself.
But we don’t really control the timing and it’s hard for us to be able to estimate something like that.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you René.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of David Eads with UBS.
Hi David.
Hi good morning.
Maybe following up with some of the loan commentary you just had.
I’m curious we got the regulators come out on - you’re talking about conditions in CREmarket.
I guess I’m more curious whether you think - you see any impact of that and whether you think that’s going to have any real impact on the competitive environment for CRE lending from some of these smaller banks.
I don’t know.
I mean it’s interesting.
We had an annual update that we do on our real estate in our board meeting in November before all that stuff came out.
And it’s sort of mirrored everything we said and talked about sort of mirrored what the Fed is saying.
So those trends are definitely out there.
I think one of the things that’s clearly happening at this point in time is that there is still not - in the overall market some markets may be different but there is not yet an oversupply.
And to us it’s a bit of a warning that you got to keep - you got to watch out for your underwriting.
As you know I mean it’s a great question to ask us because we definitely have a concentration there particularly in the New York City area.
But we tend to not change our underwriting standard.
So for example if you look at our entire real estate book today total CRE whether it’s an owner occupied or IRE our loan to value is 59.5% and in investment real estate it’s 58.3% all right.
So our intention is to remain really conservative.
We stress cap rates as we began to - as we underwrite just to look at what might happen in that space.
But having said that I think if you were less sophisticated if you were smaller it does - and given some of the things that we’re seeing I think everybody is right to be concerned you’ve got to be very prudent.
Having said that there are lot of great customers out there who are doing great projects which can be underwritten at the right amount of risk and for the right price and those tend to be customers that we’ve known for fairly long time.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then more broadly on loans just to kind of confirm when you talk about the guidance for low to mid single digit loan growth next year that’s off of the 2015 ending balances correct? Yes.
That’s the way to think about it.
Right.
And should we think about - it sounds like the - just similar to what kind of like the net loan growth is fairly encouraging to me.
And it sounds like it’s much more driven by a stronger outlook for kind of the non-mortgage categories rather than expectations for less runoff in the mortgage book is that a fair read? I think it’s a fair read.
I think the one thing I might re-characterize is on the existing book of business.
What I would say for me personally is that we for long time have watched loan growth and had sort of a tepid view towards it will it keep staying that way.
It’s really clear now that the loan growth trends have been really consistent and very solid.
So my sense is we don’t see any signs of them abating.
And quite frankly as I said our production in the fourth quarter was relatively high so slightly positive in my mind in terms of confidence.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Maybe just one last one I know there is lot of kind of moment in the allowance this quarter when bringing Hudson City loans but now you’re at about 1.1% allowance coverage.
Is that a reasonable - I mean are you guys comfortable with that level that kind of the way we should think about the allowance in the near term? Well this is our job to make sure we do a good estimate of what we think the inherent loss is in the portfolio.
And it just so happens that when you look at the Hudson portfolio that we’re bringing on not only is it mortgages right which are naturally going to - have a lower loss content in the overall book but the portfolio at Hudson City the majority of the portfolio has very good credit statistics.
I think it’s something like over the last 16 quarters their loss rates have been about 20 basis points and then if you look at the current LTVs of the $19 billion they would be at 59.7% if you look at the original LTVs they would be at 67.9% so - and good FICO.
So I think there is some subset mainly the billion dollars that we talked about that have higher delinquencies than the typical M&amp;T portfolio but the majority is not all of those loans went to the impaired loan the SOP 03-3 category that we talked about.
And we concentrated those in there.
We looked for those in the portfolio to segregate them out.
Okay.
And… Great.
Yes.
Got it.
No that’s good.
So I think the other thing I would say and point to you is remember that portfolio is generally going to be running off.
So there will be a natural migration back towards our typical allowance ratio.
Right that makes lot of sense.
Thanks.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Hey good morning René Don.
First question for you when you talked about the net interest margin outlook could you share with us what the interest rate assumption is that underlies that outlook and then let us know what the rate sensitivity looks like today with Hudson City on the balance sheet? Yes.
I think we had two hikes in that in the forward rate we were using - forward rate we were using.
And yes in terms of the interest rate sensitivity I think we’ve given that number before.
Bear with me one second.
Sure.
Yes.
So we would see about 3.2% increase in the margin for a 100 basis point move in rate up.
Got it.
Then sort of circling back to loan growth it looks like if I add in the $19 billion of fair valued Hudson City loans in the fourth quarter balances are about flat for the fourth quarter with obviously some runoff in Hudson City being offset by the growth at M&amp;T.
Is that fair because I’m just rounding the $19 billion I don’t know the exact dollars but…? I think you got to remember that the number we gave you which I think was $13.3 billion because you’re using averages.
We only had two months and I think - yes so you only would take out in that average $13.3 billion.
Okay.
I was looking at end-of-period to end-of-period.
So taking end of period M&amp;T adding $19 billion and then get into the end of period consolidated.
All right.
Give me minute.
I got some end of period balances.
We had growth I mean our annualized growth in end of period in C&amp;I was 3.7% CREwas 6.6% total commercial was 5% consumer was 7.8%.
I guess what I’m asking is was that offset by the Hudson City runoff because if your total end of period in the third quarter was $68.5 billion and you had $19 billion that gets you $87.5 billion which is where you ended the year? I mean I think the number - I got to get the - yes that’s right.
So maybe we’re looking - oh well so first of all I’m going to get it in concept and then I have to go back.
Yes.
There is runoff every month in that - in the - the end of period - by the end of the period that portfolio from Hudson was $18.4 billion.
Okay.
And it came on at $19 billion so you add $600 million of runoff then right? The $18.8 billion $18.6 billion you’re saying in the opening balance sheet.
So we had $200 million of runoff.
Okay.
Those are my estimates quickly to do that but… Got it.
Okay.
That helps.
That’s what I needed then.
And then in terms of credit quality obviously credit looks great.
Are there any signs anywhere in your book of softness or areas of potential concern? I know you’re not really big in energy; but outside of anything energy-related is there anything else out there that shows softness? How do I say that? So the answer is no not in any particular category.
Our nonperforming loans were exactly the same as they were a year ago which is kind of interesting in the sense that it means that there are some things coming in and some things going out which we’ve seen economies where that where it’s better than that.
But if you think about it like even in the quarter the types of things we saw going into nonperforming; there was a beverage wholesale distributor which I always think should never go into; there was an educational company; there was a provider of fiber optics; auto dealer.
So no themes at all really maybe just I would call them almost idiosyncratic issues.
Okay.
Good to hear.
Last question and I’ll hop out.
But could you remind me how much of these seasonal increases in the first quarter I guess especially now on a combined basis in that salary and benefits line? Yes Don what is that number? It would be in the range of $40 million to $45 million.
Some of the stuff would be affected by the Hudson City employee base for example the FICO reset.
But the major component of that is the cash bonuses and the equity grants which they will not be impacted with.
So Hudson will not have as huge an impact as the sort of legacy M&amp;T employee base.
Okay.
But altogether $40 million to $45 million lift in the first quarter? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Hello there.
Another question on credit when you’re looking for early indicators that the credit cycle might be turning what are the sorts of metrics which have started to flag red earlier in the past and how are they performing now? When we say that things look stable on the credit front we’re looking at all measures.
We’re obviously looking at our own statistics in terms of delinquencies and early stage delinquencies which have all been pretty quiet on the front.
One of the things that we’ve - that sort of piqued our interest is that obviously you see in the market the spreads for - the high yield spreads going up.
And so when you take those out ex-energy one of the things we noted is that sort of in that lower level - lower tranches of the CMBS market since June of last year they’re up 200 basis points.
And so actually if you take high-yield bonds ex-energy they are up 200 basis points in that period.
If you take CMBS they’re up 200 basis points bank spreads are up a little over that same period too.
So we particularly look at that and then take a look at the underlying credit metrics.
The only place and it’s not in M&amp;T’s book on a national level where you see both higher spreads and higher delinquencies is in the indirect auto space.
When we look at our book maybe because it’s so concentrated in the 700 FICO space plus we’ve actually seen no deterioration there.
So those are some of the things we’ve been looking at lately.
And then just as a follow-up those sort of your market indicators that you follow do you think there are reasons why the relationship might not work the same way as in the past or do you think the historical relationship should hold? It’s a great risk management question.
I don’t know.
I think - look I think that you - our MO has typically been to be more cautious which has resulted in slower growth when times are great and everybody is available to lend.
And when you look at the market today the one thing that I would say that we’re seeing is not only are all banks healthy large and small but you’ve got the debt funds in the market you’ve got the insurance companies back in the market and you saw some of the trends that we’re talking about.
So in our minds when we look at our reserves for example we tend to look at the idea that these loans are being underwritten right at historically - there is more pressure on people to do deals in lower structure and those types of things.
So that means the loss is inherent and all books are probably are growing a little bit and when you get to these phases.
I guess the other thing that I would say is what sometimes gives us pause and then this year we saw a couple of these things.
When we look and we see that we’ve lost a customer and someone has taken our loan out that was actually a classified loan for us right that tends to worry us.
If I take myself all the way back to the ‘80s I remember lots of banks that were reporting low delinquencies and no foreclosures.
But when you look at the underlying reason it was because somebody was willing to refinance that buyer out and so all the losses were hidden.
I don’t think that changes I don’t think you can always see it in your statistics.
So you have to be very careful when times are good because that’s when the difficult loans are made.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Hi Brian.
Hi Rene.
Hi Don.
Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
Rene in the other revenue from operations so it was $118 million it was up $15 million from last year’s fourth quarter.
The third quarter had what $14 million in gains - lease-related gains.
So I guess the sequential increase still seems like there is maybe $18 million or $19 million quarter over quarter increase.
Is there anything in there that’s nonrecurring or seasonal? Well you know what we had a very strong quarter in terms of commercial loan fees either fees on origination or large syndication fees both - some in size but also in volume.
And what I would say is those tend to be relatively lumpy.
The gain that you saw from the - in the third quarter was also related to one of our commercial businesses or commercial leasing business.
So I wouldn’t expect every quarter to look like this one by any means.
But having said that I kind of step back and say well on the year-over-year basis right the business seems to be doing pretty well.
And there’s fair amount of activity.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And two last questions Hudson City related I guess thinking about the tax rate from Hudson City was higher than M&amp;T’s core.
I guess after the adjustments for the tax credit what should we be thinking about for a consolidated tax rate for 2016? I can give you the theory.
But I don’t think I can give you the tax rate.
So obviously so we had the tax credits there so you got to adjust for that and you can see where M&amp;T has been running as you do that.
And then we often talk about the marginal tax rate for the next dollar of income.
That will be up slightly from where our marginal rate was before.
You will have to take a look and get a reset as we get into the first quarter but up slightly after you normalize for the $4.6 million.
And when I say slightly I’m very cautious to say that because I don’t know how much you’ll notice it.
Okay.
Okay and then last question just with Hudson City in the books still feeling good about the mid single digit accretion for 2016? Yes.
Yes I think we saw some accretion today.
I mean I think I would say an estimate for me is maybe $0.05 accretion in there from Hudson City in this first two months for the quarter.
So that would be - that would kind of put us right on track if you think about achieving the rest of the cost saves.
All right sounds good.
Thank you for your time.
Sure.
Our final question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Hey Gerard.
Hey René.
How are you? A question… Good.
They always put you way in the back of the queue.
What’s that? They always put you way in the back of the queue.
I know.
I guess save the worst for last I guess.
Couple of questions for you.
One can you give us an update? Obviously your transitional tier 1 common ratio came in at about 11 - just over a shy of above 11%.
We all know everybody has to carry extra capital to make it through CCAR.
Can you remind us what you’re comfortable with in terms of keeping a buffer above what you think you need to get through CCAR in terms of this tier 1 common ratio because 11% seems awfully high to me? Yes 11% is very high.
I mean think of it this way.
We were just over 9% when we entered our first CCAR.
And we obviously got no objection but we also - the point I’m making here would be we fared well on a quantitative basis.
And then when we entered the second time we were below 10% we were maybe I don’t know 9.80% or 9.70% or somewhere in that range and we also fared well.
So that kind of began to give us some sense of where we needed to put our target governance - in those areas is where our target governance that’s where if we started to get lower than that that we would be thinking about our governance process and maybe not having buy-backs and those types of things.
But as you can see we’re well above that.
Right.
We’re above that because of couple of things obviously the transaction.
But now we’re generating capital at a very very very high rate.
Correct.
And so our thought process is that our optimal capital structure is definitely lower than where it is at today.
But we’ll have to work our way through the CCAR and go through that process.
Having said that when you look at this to us it’s one of the more important things I mean it’s why we would go to pretty heavy length to continue to invest and make the CCAR process like perfectly linked with the rest of our processes in the bank because it’s so important to be able to do well and to be able to show your risk profile so you can return that capital.
So that would be our view and our intent.
Last year if I recall I think you lost through the CCAR process your capital reduced by just under 300 basis points.
So if we say the bogie for everybody is 5% tier 1 common after CCAR which in your case what if you add 300 that would get you up to 8%.
And obviously you never want to run at 8%.
Could you actually lower your tier 1 common to 9% if you wanted to or would that be some sort of violation of governance that you’d be hesitant to do that? Oh no I think you got to go through - you got to go through your process.
The idea that you would dramatically start lowering your capital ratios I don’t think it makes much sense.
We tend to think about moving it in the right direction.
But having said that I mean as I just framed I mean that’s probably where optimal capital structure is in that range right around what you’re talking about and framed by last couple of CCARs.
So there is a lot of excess over that not quite 200 basis points but near that.
And you’re on the right topic.
I think the way I think about it Gerard is I was looking at the fact that we - as we talked about we grew I think we said 13% of tangible book value per share.
So we’ve done that.
We’re probably over our target capital ratios in generating that growth in tangible book value per share.
And so the good news is we haven’t destroyed it or wasted it.
Right.
And at the end of the day - at the end of the day we got to protect it until we have the opportunity to return it to you or invested in something that’s above the returns that we get today.
Sure which leads me to the next question I believe last year your combined return of capital dividend and buy-backs as a percentage of earnings was under a 50%.
I’m guessing you’re probably going to ask for more once you get all the scenarios that they’re going to give you guys for CCAR.
But are guys comfortable being in that 80% to 90% of earnings like some of your regional peers are at already in returning that capital to shareholders? Well I think for us what I would say is that you’re right.
I mean we’ve been - we’ve maintained a much more conservative posture in terms of payout ratios.
And there is nothing on the surface that you could see that would suggest that we shouldn’t be returning capital at the same rate as others.
And if I break that down for you I think now what you’re going to see in terms of our peer group that that we share with you in our investor decks we would now have the highest tier 1 common ratio but for one.
But the most important thing also is we’re generating capital probably at a faster rate as well.
So there’s nothing that would suggest once you get through your stress test you look at your risk one of the risks we’ll be looking at is our new concentration risk with mortgages in New Jersey.
But as I should point out to you when we ran the last two CCAR tests we had New Jersey in it and we had those presumed to be acquired loans in our stress test.
So we’ll focus on that.
But to your point there is nothing that would suggest that we shouldn’t be able to return capital at a rate consistent - at least consistent with others.
Great and then just some quick questions the Federal Reserve - Congress has reduced the amount of dividends the Federal Reserve will distribute to their members.
I believe Bank of America said today it’s going to cost them $50 million a quarter.
Have you guys come out with anything that might affect you assuming it affects you? Yes so it’s about $9 million the change.
Okay.
And then finally on your tax spending you mentioned that you are spending additional monies or continue to spend on tech.
Can you give us an idea as a percentage of total expenses is it 5% 10%; any kind of color there? How do I do that? No I mean I think - I’m going to get it wrong if I do because I don’t have it at the top of my head.
But I think we’re talking tens of millions of dollars when we talk about increasing the rate.
And if we can accelerate the rate of that technology spend a bit we’ll be in good shape.
So would you notice it? You might notice it when I step back over six months and the full year to - then we would be able to talk to you about how much that is.
And I guess the reason for that is that when we think about technology we kind of shortcut it a bit.
We’ve talked about just IT.
But it’s not just sort of buying a system and putting it in.
We’re doing a lot of process change.
So for example in the wealth and institutional services division in Wilmington we’re looking a lot at the different capture systems when a customer gets on-boarded.
And going from that end and streamlining and changing the process which involves automation.
So it’s not like you just sort of turn the spigot on very fast.
It’ll be a gradual rise and we’ve been focusing on that a couple of quarters.
So I don’t know I don’t think huge jump tens of millions maybe but not a huge jump.
And we’ll probably talk about it more as we get through 2016.
Great.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thanks Gerard [ph].
Thank you.
That was our final question.
Now I’d like to turn the floor back over to Don MacLeod for any additional or closing remarks.
Again thank you all for participating today.
And as always if clarification of any of the items on the call or news release is necessary please contact our Investor Relations department at area code 716 842-5138.
Thank you and good bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.