Welcome to MasTec's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on May 5 2011.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thanks Laura.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MasTec's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In addition we may make certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release from yesterday or on the Investors page of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and announces by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last for about 60 minutes.
Once again we had a great quarter so we have a lot of good things to talk about today.
So I'll now turn the call over to Jose so we can get started.
Jose? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2011 First Quarter Call.
Today I will be reviewing our first quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some first quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $618 million a 37% increase over the prior year's quarter.
It's important to note that all of this growth was organic.
EBITDA was $58 million a 69% increase over the prior year's quarter.
Earnings per share was $0.26 versus $0.10 in last year's first quarter a 160% increase.
Gross margins increased to 14 1/2% a 90 basis point improvement over the prior year's quarter.
And cash flow from operations increased 45% to $50 million.
We had a very strong first quarter and an excellent start to the year.
We performed better than expected with broad-based revenue growth and margin improvement.
We experienced strong double-digit growth in our Install to the Home Wireless Legacy Transmission and Pipeline business.
More importantly we continue to perform at a high level despite a challenging environment.
We believe our diversified business model is the key differentiator for MasTec and one that has helped drive our success.
Today we serve numerous markets and industries that we feel have very strong long term fundamentals with significant opportunities for expansion and growth.
We strongly believe that our exposure to oil and natural gas pipeline high-voltage electrical transmission wireless infrastructure construction and maintenance and industrial and renewable construction will continue to be excellent sources of growth and opportunity for MasTec for years to come.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenues grew 54% over last year's first quarter to $346 million.
This increase was driven by double-digit growth in all of our communications markets including Wireless Wireline and Install to the Home.
In our Install to the Home business revenue from DIRECTV was up 21% for the quarter.
This was better than we expected.
On our last call I stated that we expected this customer to grow at a single-digit rate for 2011.
While still early we now believe growth will be a little stronger than expected in this business this year.
Our Wireline business experienced growth for the second consecutive quarter.
Growth in this market is being driven by broadband stimulus funded projects.
We have now been awarded close to $100 million of broadband stimulus projects and the pipeline of future project remains very strong.
We continue to believe this will be a source of growth for the next few years.
Shifting to Wireless the first quarter was very strong with revenues more than doubling that of last year's first quarter.
We got off to a very quick start helped by carry over work from 2010 and have a very large build plan for 2011.
We expect a very strong year.
Also during the quarter we were awarded a contract to install generators on Wireless sites in over 30 states.
While this project is not expected to be a significant contributor to revenues in 2011 it could grow substantially over the next few years.
We are seeing significant growth in the Wireless market led by the deployment of LTE or 4G in carriers networks.
We continue to expect this market to be another source of growth for MasTec for the foreseeable future.
Now I would like to cover our Utility business.
Our Utility revenue grew by 23% over last year's first quarter to roughly $265 million.
The growth was driven by our Legacy Transmission and our Pipeline Construction businesses.
As expected our Renewable business was down from prior year's first quarter as many of our 2011 projects are expected to kick off in early summer.
As it relates to our Transmission business revenues were double those of last year's first quarter.
Our first quarter revenues were not impacted by our recent EC Source acquisition given that EC Source represented a minority investment during the quarter.
On our last call we guided to approximately $200 million in Transmission revenues in 2011 with about half of that coming from EC Source.
Our EC Source acquisition is now complete backlog is up sharply in this business since the fourth quarter and we'll be up again in the second quarter as we add EC Source's backlog into MasTec's existing backlog.
EC Source's project with PacifiCorp is on schedule and the outlook and pipeline for our Electrical Transmission business remains very strong.
Moving to renewables we were very encouraged by recent statements made by NextEra the largest wind developer in the country.
In summary there were 2 important takeaways as it relates to MasTec.
First they stated that the economics of wind improving mostly as a result of technology and lower turbine prices are yielding attractive PPA prices which in turn are creating demand for wind energy and projects.
And second while 2011 was going to be a slower development year for them they fully expect to build 1 400 to 2 000 megawatts by the end of 2012 and 700 to 1 000 megawatts of wind in 2013 and 2014.
As it relates to wind we still expect a relatively flat year as compared with 2010.
With respect to solar we are currently working on a number of opportunities which we hope will impact the second half of 2011.
Finally we continue to work with BlueFire Renewables on the cellulosic ethanol facility project they awarded to us.
While not currently in backlog the development continues to make progress relative to their financing.
As it relates to pipeline construction activity our first quarter was very strong.
We remain very active on the Ruby Pipeline and our shale activity was stronger than expected.
Since year end we have been awarded $175 million in new projects.
2011 is shaping up to be an excellent year in this business despite a down market for long line Transmission pipelines.
We are beginning to see an increased number of large projects for 2012 and beyond.
Again this is another of the markets that afford MasTec great opportunities for future growth.
Recently we also announced our acquisition of Fabcor.
Headquartered in Alberta Canada Fabcor provides pipeline and facility construction services for the oil and natural gas markets.
We see Canada as a natural expansion for us and we are excited about the opportunities in this market.
In summary we're off to a great start in 2011 and we're very excited about the opportunities ahead of us.
We're also experiencing a different dynamic at MasTec.
A few years ago with our publicly stated goal of diversification we were tasked with selling our vision and our strategy.
Today based on our success and broad areas of expertise we are getting many calls from customers inquiring about our services and from potential acquisition targets wanting to join the MasTec team.
Our strategy brand and our commitment to working safely with a high level of quality are now much more recognized by our industry that at any point in our history.
While we are pleased with the progress we've made over the last few years we are diligently working on continuing to improve.
From the execution of the opportunities ahead of us to our continued focus on margin improvement we feel MasTec's best days are still ahead of us.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell for the financial review.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover 3 areas: first quarter financial results second quarter and full year earnings guidance and cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
For the first quarter we had another terrific quarter for just about anything worth measuring.
And it was going away our best first quarter ever.
Therefore I have a pretty long list of Q1 highlights.
Q1 EBITDA was up 69% versus Q1 a year ago and it was gratifying again this quarter to grow earnings at a much higher rate than our revenue.
In dollars EBITDA increased to $58 million compared to $34 million a year ago.
And that's all organic growth and a first quarter record.
Fully diluted earnings per share were up 160% to $0.26 compared with $0.10 in Q1 last year.
Q1 revenue was up $168 million or 37% versus last year and revenue of $618 million was a new first quarter record.
All of the revenue growth was organic and very broad-based.
Our Wireline business and our Legacy Electrical Transmission business more than doubled versus the prior year.
Our shale pipeline work and our long-distance pipeline work were both up nicely.
Install to the Home which is mostly DIRECTV remain strong and our telecom Wireline work and our electrical distribution work were both up.
Q1 EBITDA margin was 9.3% compared to 7.6% a year ago and Q1 was our best Q1 margin quarter since 2000.
Q1 cash flow from operations was $50 million.
Cash grew to $198 million and our liquidity was $269 million at the end of the quarter.
And finally we have raised our 2011 guidance to reflect our current outlook.
In summary Q1 was another great quarter and the outlook for 2011 and beyond continues to be awfully bright.
Now for the Q1 details.
Q1 revenue of $618 million increased by $168 million or 37% year-over-year for a new Q1 record and all of the growth was organic.
As I mentioned earlier Wireless and Electrical Transmission more than doubled versus last year.
The majority of our Wireless business is with AT&amp;T and our business with AT&amp;T grew by over 140% in Q1.
We have been saying that we're working hard to grow our relatively small Electrical Transmission business organically and obviously we're having success albeit from a small base.
Our Transmission business now gets much larger after closing the EC Source acquisition on May 2.
As I mentioned our shale pipeline work grew nicely and we had a big Q1 with the Ruby Pipeline.
A year ago our Q1 for pipeline was helped by a very large Enbridge project.
Install to the Home continues to surprise us with better than forecasted growth.
Our Q1 revenue with DIRECTV was up 21%.
Our telecom Wireline work and electrical distribution work were both up in Q1.
That's the second quarter in a row that telecom Wireline has been up and the first time in several years that electrical distribution has been up.
I'll talk about revenue from our largest customers a little later.
We are pretty encouraged by our organic revenue growth trends.
Q1 last year was up 39% organically.
We were up 36% organically for Q4 and Q1 was up 37%.
As Jose mentioned we believe that the outlook in most of our markets is pretty encouraging.
Q1 gross profit margin increased to 14.5% from 13.6% last year reflecting continued productivity gains the benefit of greater scale and also a better business mix.
Offsetting some of the margin improvement were 2 factors: First fuel was up almost $0.80 a gallon on 5 million gallons and that's about a 60 basis point impact; and second winter weather was worse than expected.
Also we had the negative impact of the 2 issues that we mentioned on the year end call.
We mentioned at year end that 2011 margins would be negatively affected by a contractual volume discounts given to AT&amp;T and by higher commissions paid out in our DIRECTV Sales business.
All of these factors hurt Q1 gross margins and also EBITDA margins and they negatively offset some of our positive lift from higher than expected revenue.
Q1 depreciation and amortization expense of $15 million was up slightly from Q1 last year reflecting modest CapEx and growth in fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue dropped from 3.1% down to 2.4%.
Net interest expense for Q1 was $7.9 million compared to $7.4 million last year due to the new phantom or non-cash interest costs associated with our convertible notes exchange.
However as a percent of revenue interest dropped from 1.6% down to 1.3%.
I'll talk about our capital structure a little later.
Our G&amp;A expense was $32 million compared to $28 million a year ago.
As a percent of revenue G&amp;A dropped from 6.1% down to 5.3% and that's our lowest first quarter G&amp;A percentage ever.
Our trend line regarding G&amp;A has been good.
We have improved almost 300 basis points in G&amp;A compared to Q1 2007.
As I mentioned earlier Q1 EPS of $0.26 was up 160% compared with $0.10 a year ago.
Q1 EBITDA was $58 million which is a $24 million or 69% increase compared to Q1 a year ago.
For the first quarter of 2011 the 10 largest customers were: AT&amp;T 27% of total revenue; DIRECTV 23% of total revenue; El Paso Corporation 20% that's our Ruby Pipeline work; Edison Mission 3% that's our wind farm work; Energy Transfer and Talisman Energy were 2% both our shale pipeline customers; CenturyLink Progress Energy Dominion Resources and DCP Midstream each were 1% of total revenue.
CenturyLink is a telecom Wireline customer Progress and Dominion are electrical distribution customers and DCP Midstream is another shale gas pipeline customer.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers now include: 1 satellite television customer 2 telecom customers 4 pipeline customers 2 electrical distribution customers and 1 wind farm customer.
Let me talk for a minute about our revenue mix.
We split our revenue into 2 categories: First we have revenue from one-time non-recurring construction projects; and then second we have a very large base of revenue from what we call master service agreements and similar contracts.
The revenue from master service agreements and similar contracts is for generally recurring services which creates recurring revenue.
For Q1 59% of our revenue came from master service agreements or similar contracts and 41% came from one-time non-recurring construction projects.
What we call master service agreements and similar contracts is briefly as follows: Generally these contracts are for multiple years often 3 to 5 years and generally they are exclusive for a certain geography or territory.
Most of these contracts have some kind of price escalation language or some other price adjustment mechanism.
Although these contracts do not contain revenue guarantees and they do permit cancellation under certain circumstances in reality the revenue from these contracts is pretty predictable these contracts generally go to full term and they are not canceled and our renewal rate is extremely high.
I want to highlight that even though our one-time non-recurring project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from these master service agreements and similar contracts.
More disclosure about these contracts is in our 10-Q.
At March 31 our backlog was $2.6 billion.
That's an 18 month backlog number.
The comparable number for Q1 a year ago was $2.1 billion and $2.4 billion last quarter.
Not included in our Q1 backlog is the backlog for the 2 acquisitions that we have closed since March 31.
That's EC Source our new Electrical Transmission business; and Fabcor our Canadian Pipeline business.
Although we have not included in our backlog a large ethanol of plant project that one of our customers announced -- I'm sorry we have not included that backlog because some of the financing is not yet finalized.
The size of the project which is an EPC contract project is approximately $300 million.
Please note that well over 50% of our revenue comes from master service agreements or similar contracts and our backlog does include an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from those contracts.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $50 million in Q1 our cash was $198 million and our March 31 liquidity was $269 million.
A year ago cash flow from operation was $35 million cash was $103 million and liquidity was $201 million.
We define liquidity as unrestricted cash plus availability on our bank revolver.
Regarding accounts receivable our Q1 day sales outstanding or DSOs were 58 days as compared to 56 days at year end.
The last 2 quarters have been under our current DSO goal of 60 days due to good collections but also some unusually favorable payment terms.
You will likely see going forward a little volatility in DSOs due to either the positive or negative impact of big projects with different payment patterns.
Regarding capital spending we spent $15 million in Q1.
Our 10-Q has an estimate of $40 million for the full year which we believe is a good number including our recent acquisitions.
To summarize our cash flow characteristics I would say this: EBITDA continues to grow nicely.
It's up 69% in Q1.
DSOs around 60 days remain in good shape.
CapEx of about $40 million this year is modest earnout payments will go down significantly and cash interest of a little less than $30 million is reasonable.
Therefore our cash flow should be strong again this year despite starting to pay normal cash taxes.
You will likely see a drop in our cash balance for Q2 and Q3 mostly due to our usual seasonal ramp up of business during the spring and summer.
Let me talk for a moment about our capital structure.
As a quick capital structure summary at quarter end we had $695 million in equity $414 million of total debt only $215 million in net debt that's net of cash and we expect to have $285 million of 2011 EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios are in very good shape.
My overview today of what MasTec has been able to accomplish in recent years is the same as I've mentioned before.
We've been able to expand into a number of new markets with excellent growth potential grow and diversify our customer base dramatically reduce our DIRECTV concentration percentage all while improving liquidity and maintaining a solid capital structure.
We intend to be aggressive in attracting customers aggressive in strengthening management and expanding our capabilities and aggressive in terms of winning in the marketplace.
But at the same time we intend to remain conservative in our pricing of jobs conservative in acquisition valuations and continue to be conservative in decisions affecting our capital structure.
As we noted in our press release we are raising our full year guidance.
We now expect revenue of $2 750 000 000 EBITDA of $285 million and fully diluted EPS of $1.23.
2011 revenue of $2 750 000 000 is an increase of 19% over $2.3 billion for 2010.
2011 EBITDA is an 18% increase and 2011 EPS is up 17%.
The revenue increase reflects our current outlook including for the new acquisitions.
Regarding our increased earnings guidance we have incorporated 3 items that I'd like to share with you.
First we're assuming higher fuel costs; second we're using a higher full year share count to reflect the impact of our increase in our stock price which adds diluted shares related to our convertible notes; and third we have raised our estimate of amortization expense for acquisition-related intangibles up to $18 million to cover the Fabcor acquisition and our latest estimates for EC Source amortization.
Revenue and earnings for the EC Source Transmission acquisition were already in our initial 2011 guidance.
The tax rate in our 2011 guidance remains at 39%.
Now let me cover Q2 guidance.
We expect Q2 revenue of about $675 million compared to $495 million last year.
That's an increase of 36%.
We expect EBITDA of $68 million compared to $46 million last year.
That's an increase of 47%.
We expect fully diluted EPS of $0.28 compared to $0.18 last year and that's an increase of 56%.
Q2 also reflects the impact of higher fuel costs share count and amortization expense.
Regarding share count for EPS purposes and the non-cash interest expense on our P&amp;L I suggest that you refer to Footnotes 3 and Footnote 9 in the 10-Q for details to our calculation.
Also for your information we issued 5.1 million shares for the EC Source Transmission acquisition on May 2 which will be on our share count from that date forward.
For your models I would use about 88.5 million shares for Q2 about 90 million shares for Q3 and Q4 and about 88 million shares for the full year of 2011.
Please note that the share count can go up above the levels I just mentioned if our stock price continues to go up.
There would then be additional dilution from our $215 million of convertible notes.
As an easy rule of thumb you need to add 300 000 to 400 000 shares for every dollar increase in our stock price.
The impact of our recent increase in stock price on our full year guidance is roughly $0.03 a share.
That's a negative impact.
We are accounting for our converts assuming the principal is paid in cash but assuming the end of money premium is paid in stock.
With our recent convertible note exchange on 94% of our converts we can now elect to pay the principal and/or the premium in cash or in stock at our sole option.
If you struggle with the convertible note EPS accounting or the non-cash phantom interest expense related to the notes give Marc Lewis our VP of Investor Relations a call and he can walk you through the calculations.
In summary we had another terrific quarter in the midst of a soft economy.
We are very encouraged by our organic or non-acquisition revenue growth and by our broad-based revenue and EBITDA growth trends.
We expect a very strong year driven by strength in Wireless Pipeline Install to the Home or DIRECTV and Electrical Transmission.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Mr.
Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Nice quarter.
Jose what's happening in your Install to the Home business? The organic growth there continues to be better than you expect.
I know that DIRECTV continues to have net adds that are maybe better than expected but is that it? Are you actually taking more share? And what are the chances that the growth rate can stay consistently close to what we saw in 1Q? A couple of things.
I think DIRECTV announced earnings this morning.
They actually announced just over 1 050 000 gross subscribers which I think was a significantly better than the gross subscriber adds a year ago.
So that's obviously having some impact on the business.
I think -- we said it last year and we said it a couple of times we were really surprised with DIRECTV's performance in spite of the weakness in the housing industry right? And if you think about why people change or why people decide to change their video service a lot of times it has to do with the fact that you're moving you're going from 1 house to another and that part of the market was really nonexistent for the last couple of years and as that begins to come back we think that it will have a very positive effect on DIRECTV in particular.
So we do think that while we probably guided to that business at the end of the year at single digits it is performing a little bit better and I think we'll continue to see that through much of 2011.
Just shifting gears Jose you talked a lot in the past about increasing Transmission presence increasing pipeline presence internationally.
You've done all these things you've talked about.
So now as we sit here are there any parts of the business that you still think you need to add to gain critical mass? Are we there for a while? Is there any new legs that you're thinking about adding? I think the last 3 years have been more about really trying to fill in what we call strategic initiatives.
So I think this latest transaction for us in Canada was one where we publicly stated that we felt the need to be in Canada we thought it was important strategically and we spent a lot of time and effort trying to find the right fit.
I think as you look at the overall organization today and the breadth of services that we're offering but more importantly how we fill those and our presence in those markets today we're very pleased with.
I think what you're going to see from us going forward is really a lot more opportunistic type deals and it could be anything from increasing self-perform capabilities in the Wireless business to really trying to penetrate new customers and accounts in a number of businesses and to be quite frank I think those are -- there's a lot of those opportunities in the markets.
So while we're really pleased with where we are in the markets that we serve at the end of the day we're only a very small player.
And as each overall industry we may have decent market share.
But we're still a small piece of a much bigger pie.
So the opportunities out there for us are significant and there's a lot of them.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Jose backlog was up 23% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.
Very very strong.
Number one was that all organic? Number two what remains from Ruby in that backlog? And number three was Ruby in the prior year quarter of $2.1 billion at the end of 1Q 2010? Yes it was all organic.
Two Ruby was in the number last year.
Ruby was in the numbers since the day we brought Precision in Q4 of 2009 and I think that we're very pleased with the backlog increase.
Obviously not just because it's an increase but because it's an increase despite a lot of revenues coming off on the Ruby job.
So Ruby was obviously a big part of our backlog.
We've been eating into that and we've been able to replace that backlog as we eat into it.
I think one of the most important things to note in today's call is the fact that during the first part of this year we've actually won more pipeline business than we've actually burned off and when you consider that we're working on the biggest project in our history in that business I think that's a very telling sign.
So we are very excited about that industry in particular but more importantly I think we saw a backlog growth almost across the board and we had a very good Q1 as it relates to backlog.
To follow up customer concentration was an issue a couple of years ago and you've done a great job at diversification away from end market customer concentration.
But you still have a number of fairly large customers.
Can you address your backlog and what customer concentration looks like in your backlog? Because I suspect it's probably improving as you rollout of the Ruby project and into other shale projects.
I think what you're seeing obviously DIRECTV and AT&amp;T are 2 very large customers for us they're going to continue to be.
We feel very comfortable not only with them as customers because I think if you're going to be concentrated you want to be concentrated with best in class.
But more importantly I think that our contractual relationship and our strategic relationship with those companies are very solid which gives us a great sense of comfort.
Obviously backlog there's a significant portion of both of those accounts in backlog.
But what we have seen and what you've seen over the course of the last couple of quarters is you've seen a lot of customer change out.
So every quarter we've got new customers coming in customers coming out and I think that is a reflection of the diversity of our business the different accounts that we're getting and backlog is made up of a lot more than just a handful of customers.
So it is a very diversified backlog buildup.
Our next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
I guess I had a couple of questions but I'll try to roll them up into one because I know Marc is trying to keep us in line and have us only ask 2 questions.
So here goes my attempt [indiscernible].
My first question is could you talk about what's built in your guidance for BlueFire and if not how much that could be if it does materialize in the second or third quarter? Number two what you assume for your solar opportunities in your earnings? And number three what you've assumed for EC Source and Fabcor in terms of revenues and EPS contribution for this year and how that amortization really rolls off into 2012? Well Tahira I think you got a lot more than two questions in today so good job.
I think first on the BlueFire question we don't expect it to be a big contributor to revenues in 2011 even if they get their funding and permits in place.
It will have a much bigger impact in 2012.
That's been our expectation since we issued guidance late last year and it really hasn't changed.
As it relates to Solar we've got a little bit of Solar business built in to our plan for the backend of the year.
Based on the conversations that we've been having with customers for a long time.
So really nothing's changed from what we've got in our models for both BlueFire and Solar relative to where we guided last year and we feel very good about those numbers that are in there related to those.
As it relates to EC Source we said last year we expected them to contribute about $100 million of our more than $200 million of Transmission revenues for 2011 well on our way to get that and we think that that's a very solid number.
For Fabcor Fabcor we probably have built into our models.
If you think about Fabcor as a $50 million-ish type full year business and when we acquired them and you can kind of back into at least what we've got built into our guidance numbers.
And from an amortization perspective we had very little goodwill on the Fabcor and a lot of that is being eaten up in 2011.
So we'll see if that number come down slightly -- come down sharply in 2012.
Got it.
And I guess my follow-up to that Jose if you look at all the moving parts that generally moved on the positive for you obviously you have some costs that are going up like a lot of your peers.
But really if I was to look at your 2011 guidance from the earnings side versus the revenue side what would you point out as potentially being the upside drivers that you're being a little more cautious in your guidance to date? And I think one of the challenges for MasTec for sure in 2010 was -- there were a lot of doubters that didn't believe that we could hit the backend of our plan because it was so aggressive.
And once we delivered on that we started getting a lot of questions about what happens in 2011 after Ruby.
So we've been facing a couple of headwinds and I think that as we've modeled out 2011 we have tried to model out what we think is a very realistic plan that people can buy into and believe with a lot of credibility.
So last year 59% of our revenues were obtained in Q3 and Q4.
This year's plan calls for 53% of revenues in Q3 and Q4 even though historically our Q3 and Q4 are significantly stronger than our Q1 and Q2.
So as we build guidance and I don't want to say we've been conservative but we've really tried to put together a plan that we think is very believable very sellable and one that isn't really going to draw a lot of skeptics or doubters.
And our next question comes from the line of Veny Aleksandrov with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> Great quarter.
My question is on the Pipeline business the Precision acquisition turned out to be a great acquisition and now you're acquiring Fabcor which I think is probably the best time to do that.
Can you give us a little bit more detail the market position of the company the pipeline of projects that they have right now in Canada and if possible some metrics of the acquisition.
Well for us I think it's a very different acquisition than obviously of Precision just strictly from a size perspective.
We played just under $30 million for the business about $6 million of that was in goodwill the balance was intangible in that book.
It's historically roughly a $50 million a year business.
It's got good EBITDA margins.
I think we've given a lot of guidance around our pipeline margins.
I think it's just slightly less than what you might historically have seen there but still what we think are very good margins.
It's a huge market it's been a company that really fit our profile perfectly if you think about the type of companies that MasTec's interested in buying.
We're trying to buy companies with good management teams that have great opportunities ahead of them but really can't fund the working capital requirements to take advantage of the growth opportunities ahead of them.
And what we find with businesses like that is with the injection of capital with the injection of our ability to help them they tend to grow at a much faster pace.
They tend to pick up margins because they're not as worried they don't have the capital constraints so many times eats into your margin because you end up doing things for the short term.
And I think Fabcor fits all of those issues.
I think we're going to give them an incredible opportunity to grow that business at a very high rate and it's exactly what we were looking for there and there's obviously a lot of the work in Canada and I think if you follow the industry it's been highly publicized and we think we're going to be a beneficiary not just on the pipeline side but on the facility side as well in Canada.
So we're very excited about it.
LLC</strong> And back to the U.S.
I know that's -- will be probably not going to be repeated but are you pursuing -- can you beat the projects right now or is the backlog just a bunch of small work project? Well we're absolutely pursuing bigger projects.
I think we've also been pretty vocal about the fact that 2011 is a slower year for large Transmission line projects in the country.
We think that that market is going to pick up in 2012.
We're seeing it in the types of responses that were given on RFPs and proposals.
We don't have built in into our guidance any large Transmission awards for the backend of 2011.
And the winds that we're getting and the growth that we're seeing in our pipeline is really being driven by shale activity which is exactly where we expected to be at the end of 2010 and really where we said we would be.
Our next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Jose in terms of the big project market not only pipelines but some of the large Transmission projects given the longer lead selling cycle on those when we will -- when do you need to start booking those to really have a big impact on 2012? Is it third quarter or fourth quarter? I think you're seeing a different dynamic in the industry today than maybe you saw 2 or 3 years ago especially on the pipeline side.
Even on the larger projects I think you're going to see much shorter times from award to start.
I don't think that's atypical of the pipeline industry.
I think you saw a lot of that in 2010.
There were some very large jobs that bid late in '09 early in '10 they got pretty much substantially completed in 2010.
So I think that that business and depending on the size of the project is much more of a book and burn business where from the time of award to the time of start of construction you got -- and again depending on the size of the project but it could be anywhere from a week to a couple of months.
So I think that awards all the way through mid-2012 are going to have an impact in 2012 in that business.
And I think there are a number of very large transmission projects that will be awarded late half of 2011 that will have significant impact on 2012 for those companies that win them.
Okay and just a follow up on Bob's comment on cash flow Bob you gave us the CapEx number of $40 million.
With what you've completed now what's your number for acquisitions? You mean year-to-date? What you've spend on acquisitions so far.
It was roughly a little under $30 million on Fabcor and EC Source was 5.1 million shares.
So add that to the -- what the 17 that you reported through Q1? Right the 17 is I don't it's -- okay all right I think we gave the number for that on the year end call both cash paid this year and earned this year and a much smaller number to be paid in '12.
If you remember there's a one-year lag.
We tend to pay this year for last year's performance and conversely you're paying in '12 for this year's performance.
Okay.
Sure I was just trying to figure out what the cash flow impact was.
Got it.
And subsequent to the first quarter we made another small acquisition roughly just under $4 million which is filed in our Q.
Okay.
I saw that.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Nice quarter.
Can you give me some color on the NASDAQ's side in terms of the pricing and what currently is the marketplace operating at in terms of capacity? When we think about that business we kind of split it into 2.
You've got the Longline Transmission business which obviously is a business that's slower in 2011 than it was in 2010 from new awards.
We've obviously been very fortunate that we're going to spend a good part of the year on the Ruby Pipeline which is going to consume a lot of our assets and utilization on that project.
And then you got the Shale business which is completely different.
So I'd say that on the Shale business utilization right now is extremely high.
And then on the Non-shale business as an industry in general it's very low.
That's why there's some very large projects that are going to consume a lot of the availability out there that we hope to start sooner than later and I think some of those projects are now slated to kick off in early 2012.
Can you give us an idea of the magnitude or a dollar figure of the bidding opportunities that you are going after? The numbers are big.
They're obviously in -- whether it's $1 billion or $2 billion or north of $2 billion I think that the market size opportunity and the number of projects that we're seeing in those types of industries I think you could say the same thing.
I think you can say similar numbers for pipeline and similar numbers for transmission.
Okay.
So now let's go into Transmission EC Source.
Can you give us some color on the size of PacifiCorp what they're going after and have they been buying or are they still primarily into the larger cranes? What's the CapEx objective there? So a couple of things.
I think A we've been very hesitant in the past and are still going to be in terms of talking about specific opportunities or specific jobs that we're going after.
It's a very competitive marketplace and we think we're in a great position and we're not going to get into particular projects.
I think that the size of the industry and the size of the opportunities are well documented across the industry and it's a very robust market that's getting better and better.
And again we think that we're just seeing the beginning of what's going to be a very big Bull Run in that market.
As it relates to CapEx we haven't really talked about CapEx in particular as it relates to Transmission other than to say that if you look at our guidance for CapEx for the year you can kind of back into the fact that we expected to do north of $200 million in that business we could probably do a little bit more without having to do much in CapEx and then obviously as that business grows and we become more successful then CapEx will grow with it.
Our next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Congratulations on a nice quarter.
My first question just looking at your EBITDA guidance for 2011 it looks like now you're looking at about a 10.4% EBITDA margin.
Which is at the lower end of your range you were looking for before.
And it sounds like that's related to fuel.
So my question is really looking at your business where -- is there an ability to pass through some of these fuel costs and where do you get a little bit stuck behind and see more of a drag there? Just a little bit of insight into if you think some of those costs are recoverable through pricing.
So a couple of years ago we had the opportunity to really sit down with our customers and negotiate some fuel surcharges based on the fact that fuel had gone so up -- up so much a couple of years back.
We didn't have that dynamic in 2010.
We're having it again in 2011 with one of our customers.
We've actually concluded that negotiation and that took effect in April so we've already begun that and we think that we're going to have opportunities to do that.
What we don't know and what we maybe been a little bit more cautious about building into our model is we don't know where fuel prices are going.
So we've assumed that they're going to continue to increase so we'll obviously offset some of that with what we feel we can get from customers.
But we still think there's going to be an increase to where fuel will be in 2011 versus where it will be in -- or versus where it was in 2010.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then switching gears just a little bit more of an update on the renewable side can you tell us how many megawatts you have in your backlog right now and kind of an update on the solar projects that you have in your backlog? It hasn't really changed since the fourth quarter.
We had 1 project where a developer -- where an owner was switching out of developer that we had won that where we're recompeting right now.
It's been an active market but it's quite frankly going to be a much active market in the second half of the year.
Again referring back to NextEra's comments I think we're hearing that from -- I think they publicly said which is why we quoted them but we're hearing that from a lot of our customers right now and that there seems to be a pickup in the demand for wind and wind projects because of what's happening with PPA pricing and the fact that as NextEra also said on their call they're out there telling people this is the best market that there's ever been in terms of securing wind prices and we think that that's really selling and we're seeing a lift from that and we think we're going to see that lift in the backend of the year.
But as it relates to where we stand today it's roughly where we were at the end of the year and we still feel very comfortable in being able to say that we expect that business to be flattish year-over-year based on the backlog that we're sitting on.
From a solar perspective we have been awarded certain projects that we have not included in backlog.
For the same reason.
We didn't include BlueFire on some of these projects.
We think they're a little bit more speculative so as financing comes together we push them to the backlog.
We think those will probably hit before BlueFire does and hopefully we'll be able to talk about them in our next call.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
You guys have done [ph] a good job on pipeline project awards in the first quarter.
And my question is that $175 million what's the timing of revenue recognition for those? The majority will all be in 2011.
Our next question comes from the line of Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Jose the first quarter you had fabulous operating leverage on organic growth.
Your guidance as discussed in the earlier question sort of flattens out to the second half of the year.
And your guidance reflects sort of a flattish type leverage for the full year.
You had rising fuel costs in the first quarter and you're still able to get better margins.
Is it fuel entirely affecting the second half of the year? Well no.
I mean I think it's the same -- really the same issues we talked about at the end of last year right? We've still got a couple of headwinds facing us.
One being some of the Wireless discounts that we gave at the beginning of the year.
The other being the increased commission payments on our DIRECTV Sales business.
Both of those are going to impact our year-over-year comps.
There's no question that obviously the strength of Ruby in the first half of this year is helping.
And the strength of Ruby in the back end of last year will create tougher comps.
And all we're trying to do is -- so we're not facing the same questions that we faced last year in terms of trying to meet what people perceived to be a very aggressive backend of the year plan is putting together a backend of the year plan that we think is very believable and gives us a lot of credibility.
So at the end of the day our goal and we continue to strive to do better than the projections that we put out there.
But those are our projections today and it's roughly an 11% EBITDA margin for the backend of the year.
We think that's solid.
If we compare it to really our peers we think we're doing really well from a margin perspective and we think that's what the market is affording us.
Real quick on Wireline.
You seem to have nice backlog even though the stimulus is rolling off.
Is there anything else driving the demand for Wireline? We've got the -- the Distribution business was up slightly.
I think Bob mentioned it in his remarks.
The Wireline business is probably up slightly net of stimulus but what's going to drive that business to growth and -- what we said distribution grew like 2% so it's really flattish.
So what we're seeing in terms of growth on the Wireline side is more driven by Broadband stimulus.
We're excited about it we think it's going to continue.
A lot of projects are still being RFP-ed.
We think that's going to continue for the rest of the year.
So I just think that's a longer-term opportunity that's going to have a multiple year impact.
It's really going to give that business the ability to show some nice growth over the next couple of years.
It appears there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Jose for any additional or closing remarks.
So again I would like to thank everybody for participating for your interest and your support and we look forward to our second quarter call.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to today's MasTec Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on August 4 2011.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thanks Melody.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MasTec's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP measure can be found in our earnings press release from yesterday or on the Investor Relations section of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last for about 60 minutes.
Once again we had another great quarter so we have a lot of good things to talk about today so I'll now turn the call over to Jose so we can get started.
Jose? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2011 Second Quarter Call.
Today I will be reviewing our second quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some second quarter highlights.
Before I start it should be noted that during the quarter we had a $29 million pre-tax gain running through the other income line.
That's $0.20 per diluted share after-tax related to the April 29 exercise of our option to buy the remaining 2/3 of EC Source that we do not already own.
My comments today exclude this noncash gain.
Having said that revenue for the quarter was $751 million that's a $256 million increase over the prior year's quarter of which $218 million or 85% was organic.
EBITDA was $71 million a 53% increase over the prior year's quarter.
Earnings per share was $0.31 versus $0.18 in last year's second quarter a 72% increase.
Net income was up $12.2 million an 83% increase and backlog was up nicely to $2.9 billion and the bid and project pipeline remained strong.
I'll cover that later.
In short we had a very good second quarter.
Our 52% revenue growth was broad-based with every one of our markets up double digits with the exception of renewables which was down.
Historically we have enjoyed an increase in business in the third quarter.
This year that spike happened earlier than expected with a significant ramp up late in the second quarter.
That ramp up allowed us to beat previous guidance with revenues exceeding guidance by $75 million or 11%.
That ramp up while a testament to our diversified business model and an example of our future growth potential had an impact on both working capital and costs.
For example during the second quarter our team member count actually increased by almost 2 400 people.
While we have been in a very challenging market environment and we expect it to be a little choppy there are significant signs of improvement and demand for our services is strong.
We have seen over the course of the last few months a meaningful increase in large project opportunities affecting a number of our markets.
Our customers' confidence level for 2012 are increasing and we expect there to be a greater number of opportunities compared to the last few years.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue grew 40% over last year's second quarter to $393 million.
This increase was driven by double-digit growth in all of our communication markets including install-to-the-home wireline and wireless.
In our install-to-the-home business revenue from DIRECTV was up 23% for the quarter.
This was better than we expected and we anticipate a strong finish to the year with the conclusion of the NFL lockout.
Late in the second quarter we acquired Halsted a service provider for DIRECTV covering New York and a number of other states in the Northeast.
This is our first geographic expansion with this customer since 2006.
We have fully integrated this acquisition into our existing DIRECTV business and feel we can make significant improvements in both their service delivery and financial performance.
Halsted was operating in very low margins and while we don't expect much if any contribution for 2011 we do expect significant margin enhancements in 2012.
Our wireline business experienced growth for the third consecutive quarter driven by broadband stimulus funded projects.
Awards have continued to increase and the pipeline of project remained strong.
We are currently bidding on over $150 million of projects and we continue to believe this will be a source of growth for the next few years.
Shifting to wireless we experienced tremendous growth during the quarter with the revenues almost doubling those of the year ago.
This increase was higher than expected causing us to hire a significant amount of resources to meet the schedule and demands of our customers.
This year the work plan has been more level loaded.
Last year most of our wireless activity was completed in the second half of the year but this year we are expecting volume in the second half of the year to be fairly consistent with the first half.
This will allow us to better manage our cost structure and revenues.
In 2012 we expect significant growth driven by LTE or 4G and our recently awarded multistate generator project.
In addition during the quarter we closed on a small tuck-in acquisition that will expand both our geographic and customer footprint.
The wireless market continues to afford us great opportunity.
The expansion of LTE or 4G which we believe will be adopted by not just the U.S.
major carriers but eventually by most of the carriers in the world should provide us with solid long-term growth opportunities.
Now I would like to cover our utility business.
Our utility revenue grew by 72% over last year's second quarter to roughly $347 million.
The increase was driven by double-digit growth in our distribution transmission and pipeline businesses offset by a reduction in our renewable revenues.
As it relates to our transmission business revenues were up due to our EC Source acquisition and growth of about 41% in our legacy transmission business.
We have guided to approximately $200 million in transmission revenues in 2011 with about half of that coming from EC Source.
The bid pipeline is very strong and includes a number of very large opportunities.
We have recently been awarded a number of projects from key customers including PG&amp;E Con Ed and National Grid.
The outlook for our electrical transmission business is strong.
Moving to renewables 2011 has been a little bit more challenging than we expected.
In 2011 a number of our customers are new to us and we saw a shift this year from our traditional customer base of large developers to smaller developers.
This was partly based on large developers having planned for a soft 2011.
While we are currently working for a number of smaller developers and their projects are on track we have seen project delays and cancellations after projects have been awarded to us.
We even had a developer who had his negotiated power purchase agreement with a public utility canceled by a state public service commission.
This has led to a softer first half and looking forward a softer third quarter than we expected.
The good news is that we have seen a dramatic change in activity levels for 2012.
A number of large developers traditional MasTec customers are now significantly accelerating wind projects for late 2011 and 2012.
We have over the last 2 months been given indication of award on nearly 750 megawatts with hundreds more under negotiation.
Many of these projects will begin in the fourth quarter and complete sometime in mid-to late 2012.
We are confident that we will now enter 2012 with our highest ever renewable backlog.
With respect to solar we continue to work on a number of large opportunities and believe we have a chance of starting a significant project before year end.
Our oil and gas pipeline business had another excellent quarter with revenues more than double that of last year's second quarter.
We are now substantially complete on the Ruby pipeline project.
Revenue for that project was approximately $88 million in the quarter compared with $122 million in this year's first quarter.
Excluding revenues from the Ruby pipeline our pipeline business was still up over 45% compared to last year.
During the quarter we were awarded approximately $160 million worth of new projects and backlog today in this business is roughly equal to where it was in last year's second quarter before our kickoff of the Ruby project.
Almost 60% of our pipeline revenues for the quarter was driven by shale work and our pipeline of new shale work remains very strong.
Shale basins everywhere are expanding capacity.
For example production in the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale is expected to grow by almost 800% over current levels by 2020.
And the demand for building the infrastructure for the transportation of the gas continues to grow in tandem with production of this clean domestic energy resource.
We have also seen an increase in the number of large non-shale related projects.
We are currently bidding or negotiating a number of large Ruby-like opportunities.
We are excited about the activity we are seeing in the pipeline business and expect it to be an area of growth for us for the years to come.
In summary we had an excellent quarter.
More importantly our future remains bright.
We are excited about the number and size of the opportunities we are now seeing in a number of our end markets.
Our breadth of services our brand and our commitment to working safely with a high level of quality are now much more recognized by our industry than at any point in our history.
While we are pleased with our results and the progress we have made we continue to strive for improvement.
From the execution of the opportunities ahead to our continued focus on margin improvement we feel MasTec's best days are still ahead of us.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell for the financial review.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover 4 areas.
Second quarter financial results earnings guidance cash flow and liquidity and I will have a few remarks about our capital structure and expanding our bank credit facility.
Once again we had another very good quarter as a part of what should be a very good year.
As Jose mentioned second quarter results reflect the impact of exercising our option to purchase the 67% of EC Source that we did not already own.
EC Source is our entry into the large project extra high voltage electrical transmission market.
Exercising this option resulted in a noncash remeasurement gain related to our initial 33% investment in EC Source in 2010.
The pre-tax gain was $29 million or $17.7 million after-tax or $0.20 per fully diluted share.
In order to have more meaningful year-over-year comparisons I've excluded this $0.20 per share other income item from all of the earnings numbers in my remarks.
Therefore I will be discussing adjusted earnings figures which exclude the remeasurement gain.
The adjusted numbers are in the tables attached to our press release.
The Q2 highlights are as follows: Q2 revenue was $751 million up $256 million or 52% versus last year.
Q2 organic or nonacquisition revenue growth was up $218 million or 44%.
So we have had organic growth of at least 35% for each of the last 4 quarters.
Q2 adjusted EBITDA was $71 million compared to $46 million a year ago an increase of 53% and adjusted EBITDA is up 60% year-to-date.
Q2 adjusted EBITDA margin was 9.4% versus 9.3% last year.
Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share was $0.31 compared to $0.18 last year an increase of 72%.
We are very excited about the EC Source transmission acquisition but it was $0.01 diluted in Q2.
And finally we have raised our earnings guidance again.
In summary Q2 was another good quarter and the outlook for 2011 and beyond continues to be strong.
Now for the Q2 details.
Q2 revenue of $751 million increased by $256 million or 52% year-over-year.
That's MasTec's highest quarterly revenue ever.
Organic or non-acquisition revenue growth was $218 million a 44% increase and it was pretty broad-based.
Pipeline revenue more than doubled in the second quarter excluding the impact of the Canadian Fabcor acquisition.
Pipeline in total was up about $130 million in Q2 and about $75 million of the increase came from the Ruby pipeline project.
Our shale work around the U.S.
continues to grow nicely.
In fact pipeline revenue was up about 45% without Ruby and without the Canadian Fabcor acquisition.
Wireless revenue in Q2 was up about $85 million or almost double last year representing continued strong growth in the 3G upgrade process and with the coming 4G LTE upgrade cycle and the new AT&amp;T multistate generator project we should be busy for years to come.
The small tuck-in acquisition that closed in Q2 did not have a significant impact on our wireless results.
Our electrical transmission business now gets much larger after closing the EC Source acquisition on May 2.
Our transmission and substation revenue including EC Source was up 125% from Q2 last year.
Install-to-the-home revenue continues to surprise us with better-than-forecasted growth.
Our Q2 revenue was up 23% and that was all organic growth.
While we are excited about serving a significant part of the Northeast market via our Halsted acquisition the acquisition had no impact on Q2 because it closed with a June 30 effective date.
Our telecom wireline revenue and electrical distribution revenue were both up in Q2.
That's the third quarter in a row that telecom wireline has been up and the second quarter that electrical distribution has been up.
Jose mentioned that the broadband -- mentioned the broadband stimulus work that is helping our telecom wireline growth.
To be fair both businesses while currently up are still well below the levels of 2 or 3 years ago.
Second quarter gross profit margin was 14.4% versus 15.7% last year as a result of the following factors: Higher fuel costs contractual discounts to AT&amp;T and higher commissions in our DIRECTV marketing business all of which we mentioned for Q1.
Also we had some inefficiencies related to handling increased volume in wireless and lower margins in our renewables business.
Higher fuel costs -- regarding higher fuel costs the negative impact was about 80 basis points net of fuel surcharges.
Q2 depreciation and amortization expense of $18.6 million was up $4.4 million from Q2 last year reflecting higher CapEx and growth in fixed assets and higher intangibles amortization for the recent acquisitions.
Depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue dropped from 2 .9% down to 2.5%.
Net interest expense for Q2 was $8.3 million compared to $7.3 million last year mostly due to the new phantom or non-cash interest costs associated with our convertible note exchange.
However as a percent of revenue interest dropped down from 1.5% down to 1.1%.
Our G&amp;A expense was $38 million compared to $31 million a year ago.
As a percent of revenue G&amp;A dropped from 6.3% down to 5% and that's our lowest second quarter G&amp;A percentage ever.
Our trend line regarding G&amp;A has been very good.
We have been improving as a percent of revenue for almost all of the last 14 quarters with just a couple of the quarters flat.
To summarize what happened in Q2 we had terrific and higher-than-forecasted revenue.
Revenue was up for 52%.
Our gross margin percentage was down for the regions I mentioned and all other costs dropped as a percent of revenue.
Therefore EBITDA margin of 9.4% was up slightly 0.1 compared to Q2 a year ago.
I mentioned earlier the 53% increase in adjusted EBITDA for the quarter and the 72% increase in adjusted fully diluted EPS.
It's also worth noting that Q2 adjusted net income was up 83%.
For the second quarter of 2011 the 10 largest customers were AT&amp;T 24% of total revenue; DIRECTV 20% of total revenue; El Paso Corporation 12% that's our Ruby pipeline work; Energy Transfer 4% they're a shale pipeline customer; Talisman Energy 3% they're a shale pipeline customer; DCP Midstream 2% they're a shale pipeline customer; Ridgeline Energy 2% they're a renewables customer; CAYMAN Energy 2% they're a shale pipeline customer; Chief Oil &amp; Gas 2% they're also a shale pipeline customer; and Verizon 1%.
It's good to see Verizon back in our top 10.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers now include 1 satellite television customer 2 telecom customers 6 pipeline customers and 1 windfarm customer.
We look forward to having electrical transmission customers make our top 10 list.
Let me talk for a minute about our revenue mix.
We split our revenue into 2 categories.
First we have a very large base of generally recurring revenue coming from what we call master service agreements and similar contracts.
And for Q2 that was 57% of total revenue.
And second we have revenue from one-time nonrecurring construction projects.
And for Q2 that was 43% of revenue.
Therefore we have a very large and pretty stable revenue base for Master Service Agreements and similar contracts.
More disclosure about our contracts is in our 10-Q.
At June 30 our backlog was $2.9 million and that's an 18-month backlog number the comparable number for Q2 a year ago was $2.2 billion and it was $2.6 billion last quarter.
Please note that well over 50% of our revenue comes from master service agreements or other similar contracts and our backlog includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from those contracts.
Now let me talk briefly about our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $5 million year-to-date compared to $28 million a year ago.
And at June 30 cash was $78 million and our liquidity was $188 million.
A year ago cash was $69 million and our liquidity was $183 million.
We define liquidity as unrestricted cash plus availability on our bank revolver.
Looking at cash flow and cash usage for the quarter we had a spike and growth of accounts receivables and inventory that negatively impacted cash flow from operations and we did make 5 acquisitions.
Regarding accounts receivable our Q2 days sales outstanding or DSOs were 70 days as compared to 58 days in Q1.
The last 2 quarters have been under our current DSO goal of 60 days due to good collections but also some unusually favorable payment terms on large projects.
Some of the Q2 DSO increase is the result of shifts in customer and project mix and some relates to a backlog of wireless projects that need to be closed out and approved for payment.
We expect to improve DSOs by year end but we will likely be above our 60 day stretch goal.
We have $17 million in capital expenditures in Q2 and $32 million year-to-date.
We have raised our estimate of full year 2011 CapEx to $50 million reflecting current needs and the impact of the 5 acquisitions that we closed in Q2.
To summarize our expected cash flow characteristics I would say this: Adjusted full year EBITDA continues to grow nicely at $290 million.
DSOs likely to be in the 60s beats many of our peers.
CapEx of about $50 million this year seems modest for a company our size.
Burnout payments will be down significantly from last year at about $45 million and cash interest well under $30 million is also reached.
Therefore our cash flow should be strong again this year despite having to pay cash taxes now now that we have exhausted our federal NOLs.
As a quick capital structure summary at quarter end we had $840 million in equity $424 million of total debt only $345 million in net debt that's net of cash and we expect to have $290 million of 2011 adjusted EBITDA.
Therefore all of our capital structure ratios remain in very good shape.
We are currently exploring the option of extending our bank deal for 5 more years upsizing it and changing it from an asset-based to a cash flow-type credit facility.
The interest rate subject to a grid is expected to be better than our current deal and likely in the range of LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
Covenants should be less restrictive than our current deal.
We expect that the size of the facility could be in the range of $500 million compared to the current facility which is $260 million.
And we estimate that availability under an amended credit facility might be in the range of $400 million as of the closing date compared to about $125 million with our current facility.
Now let me share with you our thought process regarding extended -- extending and upsizing our bank credit facility.
We may be dealing with the extension of our credit facility much earlier than its May 2013 maturity to take advantage of today's very attractive bank market.
Our current facility size is $260 million and while it has no outstanding draws or while it had no outstanding draws at June 30 it does support about $100 million in letters of credit.
We are exploring upsizing the credit facility to one in the range of $500 million for the following reasons; one the potential pricing and terms are awfully attractive; two we are a rapidly growing and dynamic company; three we have been acquisitive and we'll remain opportunistic regarding acquisitions; four a larger facility may give us another option regarding the 2014 maturity of our convertible notes; and five we expect that the unused line fee for an amended credit facility could be in the range of 35 basis points subject to a grid compared to 75 basis points in our current deal.
So it would be reasonably inexpensive to carry a larger and at times undrawn facility.
Potentially obtaining an upsized credit facility in the range of $500 million at favorable economics and terms is nothing more than normal capital structure management.
As we noted in our press release we are again raising our full year guidance.
We now expect revenue of a $2 875 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $290 million and adjusted fully diluted EPS of $1.27.
2011 revenue of $2 875 000 000 is an increase of 24% over 2.3 billion in 2010.
2011 adjusted EBITDA of $290 million is a 20% increase over $240 million a year ago.
And adjusted EPS of $1.27 is a 21% increase over $1.05 last year.
The tax rate on our adjusted earnings in our 2011 guidance remains at 39% and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles is $15 million.
Now let me cover Q3 guidance.
We expect Q3 revenue of about $775 million compared to $632 million last year.
That's an increase of 23%.
We expect EBITDA of $82 million compared to $73 million last year that's an increase of 13%.
We expect fully diluted EPS of $0.36 compared to $0.35 last year that's an increase of 3%.
Now let me offer a little color about our increased guidance.
Our comps for Q3 and Q4 are pretty tough because we had an extraordinary second half last year helped by the Ruby pipeline project.
So we feel really good about our outlook for the second half of the year.
Our guidance reflects an up quarter for Q3 and a good fourth quarter.
EBITDA margins will be down somewhat in the second half of the year compared to last year for many of the same reasons that I discussed for Q2.
However we expect renewables margins to rebound in the second half of the year and we expect wireless margins could gradually improve after some Q2 inefficiencies resulting from the increased volume.
Also as Jose mentioned the Halsted DIRECTV acquisition is a little bit of a fixer-upper.
It should be a very good acquisition for us over time and while it will add to second half revenue it likely will not contribute much in earnings until 2012.
Jose mentioned some of the encouraging levels of bidding activity in our markets which gives us early optimism for 2012.
Regarding share count for EPS purposes and the noncash interest expense on our P&amp;L I suggest that you refer to Footnotes 2 and 9 in the 10-Q for details to our calculations.
Also for your information we issued 5.1 million shares for the EC Source transmission acquisition on May 2 which will be in our share count from that date forward.
For your models I would use about 90 million shares for Q3 and Q4 and about 88 million shares for the full year of 2011.
Please note that the share count can go above the levels I just mentioned if our stock price continues to go up.
The increased share count would come from additional dilution related to our convertible notes.
As an easy rule of thumb you need to add 300 000 to 500 000 shares for every dollar increased in our stock price.
With our recent convertible note exchange on 94% of our converts we can now elect to pay the principal and/or the premium in either cash or stock at our sole option.
Our current intent is to pay the converts principal in cash and the in-the-money premium in stock.
If you struggle with the convertible note EPS accounting or the noncash spent on interest expense related to the convertible notes give Marc Lewis our VP of Investor Relations a call and he can walk you through the calculations.
In summary we had another nice quarter in the midst of a soft economy.
We are very encouraged by our organic or nonacquisition revenue growth and by our broad-based revenue and EBITDA growth trends.
We expect a very strong year driven by strength in wireless pipeline install-to-the-home or DIRECTV and electrical transmission.
And we believe the outlook for 2012 is clearly better.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll go to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Jose EBITDA margins sequentially are expected to go up 100 basis points give or take and Bob gave nice color on sort of some of the things that will happen in the second half of the year.
I'm just wondering about the confidence level and more details about where the improvement will come from.
How much of it will be fuel cost subsiding a bit versus renewable margins going up or the wireless business getting better in terms of the efficiencies? Well Andy I don't think we're really counting on fuel costs subsiding fuel is generally going up and down a little bit but it hasn't changed much here in the last few months.
So I don't think that's where we're really drawing from as we look at Q3 and Q4.
I think there's a couple of things to note.
Obviously we talked about our wireless business and some of the challenges we had with meeting the demands in the second quarter.
So we fully expect that as the volume somewhat levels out there and the growth isn't astronomical we're going to do a better job of managing that have a lot more efficiency in our business model.
I think the other thing that you've got to take into account is we just closed on EC Source in the second quarter so they begin to play a bigger role in the back end of the year and we've talked all along about where we think transmission margins are compared to the rest of the business.
So I think it really is the things Bob talked about maybe adding the EC Source transaction at the back end of the year and renewables getting a lot better in the fourth quarter as their business really picks up.
Just my other question is around the natural gas pipeline business.
It appears that even without long-haul shale activity is leading to growth.
How do you view it over the next year Jose in the sense that let's say that in the long-haul projects you can get pushed to the right a little bit can you grow the business just with shale or do you need the long-haul projects as well? Well we can absolutely grow the business.
We can grow the shale business.
The is the question is can the growth in the shale business offset the revenues that we generate from the long-haul pipeline projects that we saw in late 2010 and in the first half of 2011.
The answer is we think we can but with that said we fully expect to be doing long-haul projects in 2012.
Next we'll go to Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
One of your peers has had difficulty in managing the profitability of their pipeline business once larger projects have rolled over.
Can you address your ability to forecast the profitability of pipeline business over the coming 3 to 6 months as Ruby comes to an end? We can.
One of the big difference is I think that MasTec is we've been a player in the shale fields for a long time.
It's been a key part of our business for multiple years.
We think we're a leader in that business across a number of different shale plays.
We're very active in not just one shale but in multiple shales.
We think we have a very good market share percentage in the different shales that we play.
So I think we have an enormous amount of experience and enormous amount of history as it relates to our nonlarge project pipeline business so we've got incredibly good history and detail around where do we think the margins are in that business.
So our confidence level is very high as it plays into the longer pipeline the long-haul business.
The question becomes when do projects kick in and what's the timing of that.
So we built that into our back end of the year plan and we're very comfortable we can achieve the margins targets that we put up.
And also can you talk a little bit about international? Obviously you're a little bit more aggressive now up in Canada but in addition to Canada can you talk about other international markets that you could be looking at and what business segments? MasTec's changed.
Right? If you look at our company over the last 4 or 5 years we are extremely diverse in the services that we're offering.
I think for the most part we're still a domestic-based company but I think we operate in some business segments today that lend themselves very well to expanding internationally.
And I think when I look at our portfolio of businesses and you look at what it takes to build and deploy large scale wireless projects what it really takes to deploy a large pipeline project or even a renewable project and what's happening in those 3 businesses not just in the States but across the world and we think that most major carriers in the world are going to go to 4G.
I think the U.S.
is somewhat early to 4G where I think we were late to 3G.
I think that's a big difference in dynamics that gives those companies that are participating in the 4G rollout in the United States opportunities for international expansion.
When you look at what's happening with some -- with natural gas in general across the world you're seeing some very large natural gas pipeline being built in some different international markets as well as renewable projects that are really starting to kick up internationally.
So we're not on the mindset or in the middle of a plan to dramatically grow our international presence but we are looking at international projects and we are being approached by a number of our customers that are going international and asked us to follow them.
In those cases we're looking at it and if it makes sense then we think we can do it effectively.
We are absolutely considering doing that.
We'll hear next from KeyBanc's Tahira Afzal.
I guess my first question is in regards to the large opportunities you see didn't you mention that earlier on? Could you give your commentary and update on I guess more publicized ones that you might be able to talk about? #1 on the pipeline side XL Keystone job positioning and incrementally what might have changed for you as a company there? And #2 on a couple of the large projects that you are seeing on the transmission side I assume you might be bidding on something under Frontier [ph] and the deepest [ph] lines from the West Coast.
And really talk about perhaps the electric transmission side in terms of perhaps capacity tightening and what that could imply for you guys.
So a lot of questions in that one question to hear but I'll try to summarize.
I think we've kind of taken the approach in the past that we don't like to discuss individual projects for a lot of different reasons.
So we're not going to do that but what I will say is and we'll start with pipeline because it's really where the question started.
We are seeing a number of opportunities of large scale projects that are currently in queue either in the process of being -- or either already bid or in process of being negotiated.
And we're either bidding or involved in negotiation in a number of very large projects in the pipeline side of the business and that's about all I'll say there.
Our level of confidence is pretty high as it relates to that business and our ability to get large projects for 2012.
As it relates to transmission there are a number of large projects across the country that are bidding that I think have been in queue for a long time and we are participating in those that we feel we have the best chance of winning.
We're still confident that we're going to win another large sized type project over the course of the next 6 to 9 months.
We think that the capacity constraints in that business are beginning to build.
Obviously a lot of work has been awarded.
Hopefully pricing follows and I think at some point it will.
So I think our competitive position there is exactly where we expect it to be at this time.
As we look into 2012 and I know it's too early to comment as of yet.
But you look from all these businesses it seems most of them are going to be growth more in next year.
What would you say in terms of year-over-year growth as you look out from right now? What end markets do you think are going to be the greater growth opportunity for you and we should focus on? I think first we're in a very fortunate position.
No question that we feel really good about our prospects and as we kind of detailed out we actually have really high hopes almost across the board and all of our businesses.
But from a pure dollars and cents are things that can really move the needle and there's really a lot of them.
It could be the renewable side of the business.
We think there's going to be a considerable ramp in 2012 versus where 2011 was starting with the wind business and obviously we're getting tremendous traction there.
We think solar has the ability to actually play a much bigger role in '12 and the dollars there are big so it could really move the needle.
We have our BlueFire project that we didn't really discuss today but it's out there and we're still confident that that's a project that at some point will go forward.
Those are all significant projects that any or all significantly move the needle.
When we look at transmission obviously when you look at the size of the transmission projects that are being awarded projects there move the needle.
When you look at our wireless business we expect continued growth in 2012 based on what's happening in that industry with 4G.
So we look -- and then in the pipeline business a number of large opportunities out there with our associated and growth in shale and with new large projects added 2012 could really be a great year.
So I think I guess the short of it is we're in a very fortunate position.
And we don't need everything to hit but obviously as things begin to hit in our back end of this year we start hopefully getting awarded projects.
2012 becomes a lot more clear and really could be a fantastic year.
We'll go next to Peter Chang with Credit Suisse.
The cost and efficiencies you touched upon what fuel costs impacted the quarter by I think it was 80 basis points.
Have you guys gone through the exercise of what the DIRECTV commission increases the wireless pricing discounts the subcontractor wages and maybe what acquisition costs what those -- all those line items impacted the operating margin by in the quarter? Peter I don't think we have a number to share but I don't think the numbers are really different in the ones we discussed in the first quarter.
So for a lot of those issues in Q1 we talked about about an 80 basis point deterioration in margins related to the DIRECTV sales business along with some of the wireless discounts that we gave.
You add in 80 basis points of fuel and you're probably looking at about 160 basis points on a year-over-year comparison related to the items that I think Bob laid out.
On the wireless business that business in the first half of the year has essentially doubled or more.
Comps are getting tougher in the back half.
How should we be thinking about the growth in that segment considering AT&amp;T or well first of all considering your performance thus far and then AT&amp;T's bullish comments on investing in both 4G and 3G infrastructure for the remainder of the year? Couple of things I think embedded in our guidance we don't have some of that commentary that AT&amp;T made.
I think AT&amp;T made some pretty direct comments about capital spending for the back end of the year and what it was going to mean to them.
Other than the public comments that they've given we don't have a lot of visibility on that.
So we're kind of looking at our business irrespective of that.
What we did say earlier in the call today is we do expect the second half of the year to be closer to the first half but I don't think last year I think 65% of our work or so on the wireless business was done in the second half.
I don't think you're going to see that kind of skew based on the work plan that we have with the approval that we have but what we need to complete in '11.
The only way that changes is if there are considerable more dollars invested in CapEx related to the wireless business for the back end of the year which we don't know.
So we're expecting solid growth in the business in the back end because even at the first half numbers it's nice growth in the second half but we're not expecting a very back-end skewed year in the wireless business.
We'll go next to the Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was hoping you could give us a little bit of clarity on your orders.
It looks like orders were over $1 billion in the quarter and I was hoping you could give us a little bit of an indication of how much of that was acquired and if that includes the AT&amp;T generation win as well.
So a couple of things.
On the acquisitions that we did during the quarter we did not include Halsted in backlog calculation because it was closed right at June 30 we'll include that in the third quarter.
The 2 smaller acquisitions that we closed really didn't impact backlog in any meaningful way.
EC Source which we have previously talked about at the beginning or beginning of the year in the first quarter we added 18 months worth of backlogs for them what they currently have in contracts so that did affect somewhat the backlog numbers from a Q1 to a Q2 comparison.
And Fabcor which was the other acquisitions that we closed in the second quarter which we talked about in our first quarter call added a little bit to backlog but again not a very meaningful number.
So truly most of the growth in backlog was organic.
One of the comments that we did make on the call was that our pipeline backlog today is actually just greater than where it was at this time last year.
The reason we think that's important is because at this time last year virtually the entire Ruby project was in backlog.
So for us to have not just completed the Ruby project but more importantly filled that backlog back up to where it was prior to the Ruby job we think is a huge feat.
Now some of that work will be longer in nature than Ruby.
Ruby was a 6 to 9 month project.
Some of the backlog embedded in our pipeline business today is 12 to 18 months but it's definitely a great sign.
So I think acquisitions were probably if I have to guess somewhere around the $150 million of the backlog increased number.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then the 750 megawatts of wind work that you indicated at look like your 1 is any of that included in the backlog? The answer is most of it is not because it was not a fully-signed contract by the end of the quarter but approximately couple of hundred megawatts were included.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then my second question is on your revenue guidance.
I'm just hoping to get a little bit more granularity.
You're looking at a pretty solid sequential uptick but you got a lot of the Ruby project rolling off.
Can you just talk about some of the moving pieces there sequentially? What you're expecting in terms of if you're looking at kind of what typically drives your seasonal uptick in the third quarter with the wireless if you're looking at flattish wireless what are some of the other pieces that you're looking at really picking up in the third quarter? So 2 things.
One as it relates to wireless we're not saying that wireless is going to be flattish with last year.
We're saying wireless is going to be flattish with the first half of this year.
So we look -- we actually expect significant growth in the wireless business in Q3 over Q3 last year.
So that will drive -- when we talk about 24% growth to 23% growth in Q3 over last year some of that is definitely driven by wireless.
Our pipeline business even though we won't be predominantly on the Ruby project we actually expect a very good third quarter.
Ruby was a smaller number in Q3 last year than it was in Q4 and we actually are expecting a very good pipeline finish to the year even though we don't have Ruby.
And I think that the other variable in there that was not in last year's number that is in this year's number is EC Source which is obviously helping the back end of the year as those transmission projects kick in.
We'll hear next from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
I don't know where the interest is but could you give us a sense to what backlog looks like by your reporting segments anyway? Or your revenue segments? John we haven't provided that.
It's something that we're looking at potentially providing here very soon in future quarters but we actually don't have that handy.
Maybe ask it in a different way in terms of your business going forward it was a -- traditionally it looks like the MSA work has been about 55% 60% of revenue and discrete projects the remainder.
Is that especially to go out into 2012 and looking at the pipeline transmission work is that going to change? John quite frankly we hope it does.
We're still in the 55% range of MSA.
We're always going to be -- have a high percentage of MSA because a number of our large businesses are MSA-driven.
So when you look at our wireless business our DIRECTV business those are really MSA contracts and they're so large that they obviously help drive that MSA number.
And our MSA is always going to be a significant piece as our project work continues to grow in the future project continues to become a bigger piece at it has over the last couple of years and we do expect as a percentage of our business projects to pick up.
But we don't think it's going to be 70% or 80% projects either but it will grow from where it is today.
And the project business gives you a little bit higher margin than the MSA with a little more volatility is that fair quarter-to-quarter? In depends on the industry.
So we have some MSA business areas that do really well so I don't know that you can make a general statement like that.
You can say that obviously within the transmission of the pipeline business a lot of that project work is above our company average margin so to the extent that those are the type of projects that you're growing your backlog with that's obviously very good.
Our next question comes from Veny Aleksandrov with Pritchard.
LLC</strong> My first question is and you briefly mentioned but I just want to make sure how much growth from the acquisition that you guys made in Q1 and Q2 are you factoring? Can you forecast how in you guidance for 2011 if any? If you look at the acquisitions that we made post-Q1 because we actually talked about a few of the acquisitions in the first quarter and really because they had already closed at the time of our last call or we're in the process of closing.
So some of those for example EC Source has really been in our guidance since we issued guidance the first time for 2011 because we knew we were going to exercise the option.
So if you take the acquisitions that we really haven't talked or the ones that we closed and disclosed after the first quarter call I think annual revenues for those entities are somewhere in the range of about $100 million and we've taken you could say $45 million to $50 million for the balance of the year and included that.
LLC</strong> And then my second question is on the pipeline business.
And did you ever feel the shales? Are you looking to expand in new areas and are there indications from clients that there is sufficient interest in your areas where you are not present? Absolutely.
And I think we did discuss that a little bit on our first quarter call.
For example we now have a presence in the Bakken Shale we have a physical presence there that we opened earlier this year.
We think that that's going to be a great area of opportunity for us.
As the different shales have really expanded and opened up we've been there we've been there early which I think is why we've been so successful.
So yes we will work hard to expand on all new shales and all shales that are being developed further both in the U.S.
and Canada.
We'll go next to William Bremer with Maxim Group.
I was wondering if you could provide some color on the pipeline business.
Besides and we all know that a lot of the large scale pipelines are constantly getting deferred and for regulatory issues and you do quite well with the sort of base-hit type smaller tranches there.
Could this potentially lead to maintenance services longer term for your underlying business as if -- because you are setting up some localized almost like a QRC type facilities to service them? Absolutely.
And I -- we haven't really discussed it we haven't I guess made a big deal of it.
It has the potential of being a very large opportunity.
A lot of it has to do with ultimately regulation and what are -- the provider is ultimately responsible for doing under existing  pipelines and how much is that really enforced and I think that's what's going to drive the business long term.
I absolutely think that it's going to happen.
The question is when and are we really going to see that next year 2 years 5 years? So I think we've been a little bit more cautious in talking about it until were really start seeing some of that type of work move the needle.
And also backlog quite impressive.
Can you give us some color regarding the pricing of that backlog and by segment how has it been say over the first quarter and how has it been say year-over-year? We talked a little about it in our first quarter call.
I think when you look at late '10 early '11 we were kind of seeing stable -- stabilized prices.
We weren't necessarily seeing big reductions in pricing but we weren't seeing big increase in pricing either.
So we're still confident and hopeful that as capacity continues to get eaten up in some of these different industries we're going to be afforded the opportunity to slowly raise our prices but quite frankly I don't think we really seen that in any meaningful way yet.
Jose have you had to renegotiate any backlog type pricing because of capacity issues? No.
And can you give us a figure on what did Precision what was their contribution to the second quarter? We don't break out the different business units from a revenue perspective or a margin perspective.
I think what we did say is the Ruby pipeline was about $88 million of our quarterly revenue.
Obviously Precision does do a lot of shale work so that was not their revenue but the Ruby job was $88 million.
Our next question comes up from Theodore O'Neil with Wunderlich Securities.
Jose you've done so well in the pipeline side of business.
I'm wondering what your limitations are there in terms of getting even more market share and if there's a CapEx impact for that.
Our philosophy is we're going to try to chase every project that makes sense that we can handle from a quality of workmanship and an issue of safety of our people.
And we're definitely growing our resources.
We talked about adding 2 400 people over the course of the last 3 months.
A large number of that was in our pipeline business so we are rapidly expanding that business and we hope that over time we'll continue to build that business.
We think there's going to be great opportunities.
We think we're really just seeing the beginning of what will be a big shift to natural gas anyway as another source of energy.
So we think we're in very early stages of what's going to be a long term build out.
CapEx to the extent that we're very successful yes it does have a impact on CapEx.
I think that's part of the reason that we're probably spending a little bit more this year than we have in years prior.
We're very bullish about where we think that business can go so to some extent we're going to be wise about our purchases but if the work shows up we're going to go out and get the equipment necessary to execute on that.
So yes it does drive CapEx a little bit.
We feel very good about our capacity to continue to grow that business and what our capabilities are in terms of getting a lot larger than we are today in that business and our intent is to execute on that.
We'll go next to Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
You mentioned that you had to step up pretty precipitously on the wireless side with the demand ramping so quickly.
Have you had any problems in terms of learning curve with the new personnel in terms of additional expense or extended intervals on your installation commitments? So I think that what we've been saying I guess on this call is there's no question we had inefficiencies if that's the question.
When you hire that many people and you go through a process of training go through a process of them learning they may be very qualified but they've got to learn how to do the work in the manner in which you're doing it and your customer wants you to do it.
So there's no question that those hires that we made during the quarter were not as efficient as we hope they can ultimately be or that what we would expect.
Our customer has been very vocal about their issues and their network and the amount of money that they're investing in their networks to make their network the best in the world.
And we're really trying to help them do that and to the extent that they feel they need to accelerate some of that and get certain sites up quicker than others we've been very accommodating.
Our next question comes from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Jose backlog's up 30% year-over-year.
Your pipeline backlog is flat year-over-year which is no small feat in this environment.
Your share counts down you've done a good job managing SG&amp;A.
Is there a scenario where EPS can be up year-over-year in the back half of the year? You know it's not what we're guiding to.
I think large projects obviously have large impact.
So to the extent that we were awarded a onslaught of large projects and we're able to complete enough work in the final part of the year then you can obviously do better.
I don't think that's our expectation today.
I think what we've learned over the last couple of years is that projects have a life of their own and end up taking a bit longer than you would hope to kick off and I think we've built that into our models.
And then I wanted to ask quickly about the free cash flow.
It dipped negative this quarter.
Bob maybe you can talk about your expectations for cash flow in the back half of the year.
As we commented we had frankly in addition to the revenue growth we had a more than proportionate growth in receivables.
That's how we got the 70 days.
And every day is worth over $8 million in cash to us.
So currently about what we're willing to say at this point is we'll be back in the 60s.
From what I said what I didn't see getting down to 60.
So we will get some pick up in the second half of the year on the receivables front.
The worst might be over in terms of inventory build.
We have a lot of actually a lot of wireless inventory build some of it with LTE build and that may subside.
So we're going to have better cash flow in the second half of the year primarily due to the lower AR and maybe lower inventory.
And actually in addition to that most of the earn-out payments almost all of them have been made for the year so cash flow will be better.
Our final question comes from Peter Chang with Credit Suisse.
I just had a question on Q4 implied revenues and why they are low year-over-year especially since we've got EC Source in there some other acquisitions.
The pipeline business remains solid despite and I understand there's no Ruby anymore but it sounds like backlog is solid or flat compared to where it was last year.
Wireless should be up year-over-year.
Is there something we're missing? I know renewable is supposed to be weak but is there something like is DIRECTV the other bogey or is there a level of conservatism baked in? Couple of things I think that if you look at implied guidance it's not down but it's flat.
If you look at what our Q4 implied guidance is versus last year Q4 of 2010 included $155 million of Ruby revenue which is a big number.
Obviously it was I think the peak of the Ruby job and I think based on that and we're going to make up that entire Ruby job revenue for Q4 of '10 and '11.
And again I think we talked a lot about the things that we haven't put into any Q4 guidance that could potentially be upside so we'll see what happens.
And we have no further questions in the queue.
Again we'd like to thank everybody who supported us and shown interest in the call today.
We look forward to our Q3 earnings announcement and being able to update you again on our business.
So we'll talk then.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does concludes today's conference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on November 4 2011.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thanks Jenny.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future plans results and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are as the company's expectations on the date of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions  prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from these which are expressed or implied in these communications.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release or related SEC filings or on the Investor Relations section of our website at mastec.com.
With us today we have José Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by José followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last for about 60 minutes.
I'll now turn the call over to José so we can get started.
José? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2011 Third Quarter Call.
Today I will be reviewing our third quarter results providing my outlook for the markets we served and providing color on both the fourth quarter and 2012 guidance.
First some third quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $865 million a 37% increase over the prior year's quarter.
EBITDA was $80 million compared with $73 million in the prior year's quarter.
EPS was $0.36 versus $0.35 in last year's third quarter.
Net income was $32 million versus $30 million last year and backlog was up nicely to $3.1 billion our highest level ever and the bidding project pipeline remains strong which I'll cover later.
During the third quarter we again demonstrated our ability to grow the company by posting another quarter of year-over-year revenue growth of 37%.
This now marks 7 consecutive quarters where our year-over-year quarterly revenue growth rate has exceeded 28%.
During the third quarter our growth was broad-based.
On a year-over-year quarterly basis our pipeline revenues grew 57% that's despite having significantly less revenue from the Ruby pipeline on a year-over-year basis.
Our Wireline business -- our wireless business grew 49% our install-to-the-home business grew 35% our telecommunications Wireline and Electrical Distribution business grew 24% and our Transmission and Substation business grew 262%.
This was offset by a decline in our Renewables business of 47%.
We are very pleased with our ability to grow revenues and how we have positioned the company to take advantage of the opportunities in multiple end markets.
We are seeing and believe we will continue to see an increase in the opportunities available to us in the markets we serve and we are very bullish about our ability to grow the company over a sustained period of time.
While we are pleased with our growth we are disappointed by our margin performance in the third quarter.
Although we achieved our earnings guidance numbers performance could have and should have been much better.
EBITDA margins were lower than expected primarily for 2 reasons.
First severe rain floods and ground saturation in Pennsylvania and West Virginia have had a significant impact on our ability to perform work on 3 major contracts in the Marcellus Shale.
This negatively impacted margins in our pipeline business by about 250 basis points.
Unfortunately the conditions have not improved and we expect it to have an even greater impact in the fourth quarter.
We'll discuss that later.
And second our wireless margins were lower than expected as we had very aggressive construction milestones that we needed to achieve for our primary customer during the third quarter.
Although we turned in a solid performance it came at the expense of margins.
Wireless margins were negatively impacted by about 300 basis points.
Again while we're pleased with our growth in performance in the third quarter we can perform much better from a margin perspective.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue grew 37% over last year's third quarter to $477 million.
This increase was driven by double-digit growth in all of our communications markets including install-to-the-home wireline and wireless.
In our install-to-the-home business revenue from DIRECTV was up 17% organically or up 35% including our recent Halsted acquisition.
Halsted was a service provider for DIRECTV covering portions of the Northeast that we acquired in late June.
The integration of this acquisition into our existing DIRECTV business is progressing ahead of schedule and we expect to see significant improvement in Halsted's results in 2012.
Our Wireline business experienced another strong quarter with solid double-digit growth.
Stimulus awards have continued to increase and the pipeline of projects remain strong.
We have received almost $130 million of contract awards to date and are currently negotiating final contracts on approximately $80 million of additional projects.
We continue to believe this will be a source of growth for the next few years.
Shifting to wireless we experienced tremendous growth during the quarter with revenues up about 50% from a year ago.
We were challenged during the quarter in meeting very aggressive build plans.
In early 2011 the full year build plan changed due to the T-Mobile acquisition announcement.
Parts of the plan were deferred and others were accelerated causing us to change the skill set requirements of our workforce.
While we feel we are now better positioned than ever to take advantage of the growth opportunities in this business it has come at the cost to margins in the short-term.
Based on the acceleration of this year's build plan and some uncertainty around the T-Mobile acquisition we are expecting a decrease of about 20% in fourth quarter revenues versus the third quarter for our primary customer in this market.
Despite the fourth quarter slow down 2012 should be another very strong year for the wireless industry as the rollout and expansion of 4G accelerates.
We expect considerable growth in this market in 2012.
Now I would like to cover our Utility business.
Our Utility revenue grew by 38% over last year's third quarter to roughly $376 million.
This increase was led by 57% growth in our pipeline unit and over 260% growth in transmission.
These growth rates were partially offset by a 47% reduction in our renewable revenues.
Our oil and gas pipeline business experienced year-over-year growth of 57% despite lower year-over-year revenues from the Ruby pipeline project.
We did a great job of replacing backlog in the business and we entered the second half of the year with excellent revenue visibility.
We continued to enhance our market presence in the various shales.
Over 70% of our pipeline revenues for the quarter were generated in shale basins across the country.
The Marcellus Shale is a strong contributor to our business and an area where we are doing and have completed a substantial amount of work.
Unfortunately starting late in the third quarter we experienced severe rains and floods which impacted a number of our projects access roads and equipment yards.
As previously discussed this had a negative impact on third quarter revenues.
Today many of these areas remain saturated and under water and on a number of projects we have suspended work until conditions improved.
This is impacting both revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter.
We expect to re-mobilize on these jobs in early 2012.
As it relates to our transmission and substation business revenues were up due to our EC Source  acquisition and strong organic growth of about 50% in our legacy transmission business.
We have guided to approximately $200 million in transmission revenues in 2011 with about half of that coming from EC Source.
Ruby [ph] Pipeline remains robust and includes a number of very large opportunities.
The outlook for our electrical distribution business is strong.
Moving to renewables.
2011 continues to be challenging.
Revenues for the quarter were down 46% year-over-year.
The good news is that we have seen a dramatic change in anticipated activity levels for 2012.
A number of large developers traditional MasTec customers are now significantly accelerating wind projects for late 2011 and 2012 to qualify for expiring tax credits.
Based on those signed contracts and verbally awarded projects we will enter 2012 with the highest level of revenue backlog ever.
We now have awards of approximately 1 500 megawatts of wind for 2012.
Also over the last 2 months we've signed contracts and received verbal awards for $100 million of solar projects that will kick off in late December with 2012 completion dates.
These awards represent more than 25 megawatts of solar construction.
We're also very bullish on our industrial and power business for 2012 and beyond.
We expect our renewable business to more than double revenues in 2012 compared to 2011.
I would now like to comment on fourth quarter guidance.
Most of our businesses are going to have a good fourth quarter profit-wise.
But as we mentioned in our press release we have margin challenges in 2 of our businesses: pipeline and wireless.
In pipeline we have significant margin challenges related to 3 significant jobs in the Marcellus Shale basin where severe rain and wet terrain are having a dramatic negative impact on our productivity and margins.
Our Marcellus pipeline operation had a brutal September after Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee.
Additionally in the fourth quarter we've had continued severe rains and last weekend a major snowstorm.
It will be a very difficult quarter unless the Marcellus area dries out more than we expect.
I view pipeline as mostly a productivity and margin problem even though we're having to deal with the utilization impact of a fourth quarter $100 million sequential decrease in pipeline revenue.
In wireless we now see fourth quarter revenue as lower than we expected and down $40 million sequentially which will clearly hurt utilization and margins.
In addition we are keeping extra people around to close out the work and be ready for what we believe will be a very strong 2012.
The revenue and productivity challenges in these 2 businesses are having a negative impact on margins and we are now estimating fourth quarter EBITDA margins at about 6.9% to 7.6%.
Again we're disappointed with where we think we'll end up in Q4.
However we believe that visibility into 2012 is extremely high and we are very bullish on both our ability to continue to grow revenues as well as in our ability to improve margins.
We expect double-digit organic revenue growth in 2012 and double-digit EBITDA margins.
Overall the markets we serve are improving.
There is an increasing number of broad-based opportunities available to us and we have never been in a better position to take advantage of that.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell for the financial review.
Bob? Thank you José and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover 4 areas: third quarter financial results fourth quarter earnings guidance cash flow and liquidity and I have a few comments regarding our new bank credit facility.
Once again we had another good quarter as a part of a very good year despite a challenging economic environment.
Before we start I want to remind you that the second quarter results included a gain from exercising our option to purchase the 67% of EC Source that we did not already own.
Exercising this option resulted in a noncash remeasurement gain related to our initial 33% investment in EC Source in 2010.
The pretax gain was $29 million and $17.7 million after-tax or $0.20 per fully diluted share.
In order to have more meaningful year-over-year comparisons I have excluded this $0.20 per share other income or gain item from all the earnings numbers in my remarks about either year-to-date or full-year results.
Therefore I will be discussing adjusted earnings figures which exclude the remeasurement gained.
We have provided adjusted numbers on the tables attached to our press release and in our SEC filings.
Our Q3 highlights are as follows: Q3 revenue was $865 million up $233 million or 37% versus last year.
Q3 organic or nonacquisition revenue growth was up $119 million or 19% so we have now had double-digit organic growth for each of the last 6 quarters.
Q3 EBITDA was $80 million compared to $73 million a year ago an increase of 10% and year-to-date adjusted EBITDA is up 36%.
Fully diluted earnings per share was $0.36 compared to $0.35 last year.
The Q3 story is about terrific revenue growth partially offset by challenged margins which I will cover later.
Q3 was the 16th quarter in a row that we have matched or exceeded our guidance.
We're trying to provide good information about how we're doing and what we expect to happen especially looking one quarter out.
Now for the Q3 details.
First I'll cover our communications markets.
Q3 communications revenue was up 37% compared to last year.
Install-to-the-home revenue continues to surprise us with better than expected growth.
Our Q3 revenue was up 35% which included our Halsted acquisition which closed with a June 30 effective date.
Our Q3 organic growth without the Halsted acquisition was 17%.
We have previously mentioned that Halsted was a fixer-upper and without much earnings contribution until 2012.
However we're encouraged by our progress in integrating Halsted and we expect to steadily improve Halsted margins during coming quarters and achieve margins approaching our legacy DIRECTV business by the end of next year.
Wireless revenue in Q3 was up $60 million or 49% over last year and Q3 was our highest revenue ever in wireless.
3G upgrade work was the largest part of our volume in Q3 and that will be true for the full year as well.
Next year in 2012 4G LTE work should be a bigger part of our volume although we will still be doing a substantial amount of 3G work and normal maintenance plus the new generator work.
We mentioned 2 quarters ago that we had won a large 35-state generator project but there's very little Q3 and Q4 revenue related to the generators and the ramp up  really begins in 2012.
Our telecom wireline revenue and electrical distribution revenue were both up again in Q3.
Both markets are handled by the same management team.
That's the fourth quarter in a row that telecom wireline has been up and the third quarter that electrical distribution has been up.
Broadband stimulus work was over $20 million in Q3.
Now I'll cover our utilities or power markets.
Q3 for utilities was up 38% compared to last year.
Q3 pipeline revenue in total grew 57% in the third quarter and the organic growth without the recent Canadian Fabcor acquisition was 33%.
As José mentioned over 70% of our pipeline revenue was in the various shale basins especially in the Marcellus Eagle Ford and Bakken shale basins.
During Q3 we had major weather-related challenges in the Marcellus Shale Basin with extraordinary amounts of rain and we continue to have locations underwater.
The resulting wet terrain has very negatively affected our revenue and especially our productivity and our margins.
I'll talk more about Northeast weather effects when we talk about margins and guidance.
Our electrical transmission business is now showing excellent growth more than tripling in Q3 over last year.
The growth was a combination of better than 50% organic growth in our legacy business and the addition of EC Source revenue this year where much of the revenue is coming from our large PacifiCorp project in Utah.
In total our transmission and substation revenue was up 262% from Q3 a year ago.
Renewables had a disappointing Q3 with revenue down 47% and with poor margins.
Volume has been an issue all year for renewables.
José mentioned significant amounts of new wind and solar work but most of it will happen next year.
As José mentioned we currently expect a banner year in 2012 for the renewables group given all the recent contract awards.
For your information what we call our renewables group also does power generation industrial construction and oil and gas facilities work.
Q3 gross profit margin was a disappointing 13.9% versus 16.4% last year primarily as a result of 2 significant factors: first severe rain in the Northeast which crushed our Marcellus Shale profitability and reduced our pipeline margins by an estimated 250 basis points; and second inefficiencies in wireless related to achieving our primary customer's build plan which we estimate were a 200 basis point drag on wireless margins.
We're not ready to give 2012 guidance today but we do expect to bounce back to double-digit EBITDA margins in 2012 based on better margins in renewables wireless and from our Halsted DIRECTV acquisition and we don't expect a repeat of the horrendous northeast Marcellus weather that we have had this year.
Q3 depreciation and amortization expense of $19.9 million was up $5.1 million from Q3 last year reflecting higher CapEx and growth in fixed assets and higher intangibles amortization from the recent acquisitions.
Depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue held steady at 2.3%.
Net interest expense for Q3 was $8.9 million compared to $7.3 million last year mostly due to the new $1.2 million of phantom or noncash interest cost associated with our convertible note exchange.
However as a percent of revenue interest dropped from 1.1% down to 1%.
Our Q3 G&amp;A expense was $39 million compared to $31 million a year ago.
As a percent of revenue G&amp;A dropped from 4.9% last year down to 4.6%.
Our trend line regarding G&amp;A has been very good.
We have been improving as a percent of revenue for almost all of the last 15 quarters with just a few of the quarters flat.
To summarize what happened in Q3 we have much higher than forecasted revenue and 19% organic growth but much of the revenue increase was offset by lower gross margin resulting from the factors that José and I have covered.
I mentioned earlier a 10% increase in EBITDA for the quarter and we had a 2.9% increase in fully diluted EPS.
It's also worth noting that Q3 net income was up 6.1%.
For the third quarter of 2011 the 10 largest customers were DIRECTV which was 25% of total revenue; AT&amp;T 22% of total revenue; Talisman Energy 5% that's Marcellus Shale work.
; Energy Transfer Company 5% that's Eagle Ford Shale work; PacifiCorp 3% that's an EC Source job in Utah; Dominion Virginia Power 3% that's Marcellus Shale work; El Paso Corporation 3% the majority of that was the final revenue for the Ruby pipeline project; Spectra Energy 3% that's a Fabcor gas facilities job in Canada; DCP Midstream 2% that's Eagle Ford Shale work; EQT 2% that's Marcellus Shale work.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers now include one satellite television customer one telecom customer 7 pipeline and gas facilities customers and one electrical transmission customer.
Let me talk for a minute about our revenue mix.
We split our revenue into 2 categories.
First we have a very large base of generally recurring revenue coming from what we call master service agreements and similar contracts and for Q3 that was 62% of total revenue.
And second we have revenue for onetime non-recurring construction projects and for Q3 that was 38% of revenue.
Therefore we have a very large and pretty stable revenue base from Master Service Agreements and similar contracts.
More disclosure about our contracts is in our 10-Q.
At September 30 our backlog was a record $3.1 billion and that's an 18-month backlog number.
We're excited about our backlog growth and also about the contract signings and informal awards that we've had since September 30.
The comparable backlog number for Q3 a year ago was $2.3 billion and it was $2.9 billion last quarter.
Please note that well over 50% of our revenue comes from master service agreements or similar contracts and our backlog includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from those contracts.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our new bank credit facility.
Year-to-date net cash flow used for operating activities was $40 million compared to $101 million provided by operating activities a year ago.
And at September 30 cash was $16 million and our liquidity was $477 million.
A year ago cash was $120 million and our liquidity was $237 million.
We define liquidity as net cash plus availability on our bank credit facility.
First let me talk about our liquidity and then I'll cover the individual cash flow items.
Liquidity is up dramatically because of a very large increase in availability coming from the new $600 million bank credit facility that we put in place in August.
Availability from our credit facility at September 30 was $484 million and that's dramatically more than the $136 million last year under that prior credit facility.
The biggest use of cash of this year was our growth in accounts receivable which were up $289 million versus last year.
Part of the increase in accounts receivables is due to our 42% growth in revenue this year but in addition to the growth our DSOs or accounts receivable days sales outstanding have gone from 56 days at year end 2010 to 76 days at September 30 and every day is worth over $9 million to us.
The December 2010 56-day DSO level was artificially low due to some unusually favorable payment terms on major projects that have since been completed and with one MSA customer where we have since had a slight unfavorable changing payment terms.
The biggest driver on the DSO increase this year has been our wireless business where we have had delays in closing out projects and getting billing approvals.
We expect to clear out most of the this building backlog this year but clearly a fair amount of the actual cash payments will come after 12/31.
Therefore we currently expect that year-end DSOs will be in the 70-day range well above our sixty-day long-term target.
Inventory is up about $37 million year-to-date and that's mostly wireless growth plus some growth for DIRECTV.
Another significant cash item this year has been for acquisitions.
We made 5 acquisitions in Q2 using $41 million in cash.
Acquisition earn-out payments this year totaled about $45 million.
We have now made all of the acquisition earn-out payments that we need to make this year.
We currently expect that next year's earn-outs will be significantly lower in the $30 million range.
Our 2 big earn-out payments historically have been for Nsoro our wireless business and for DirectStar our DIRECTV sales business.
We bought out most of the Nsoro earn-out last December and we currently expect the DirectStar sales option will be exercised in the second quarter next year.
The DirectStar sale option can be exercised at the sole discretion of our optioning.
We have had $57 million in capital expenditures year-to-date.
The comparable year-to-date number last year was $23 million.
The increase is primarily due to additional equipment for our shale basin pipeline work plus IT upgrade costs especially for our wireless business and in covering the CapEx needs for the 5 acquisitions we made in Q2.
And there was some acceleration of CapEx this year to take advantage of the 100% bonus depreciation we get for 2011 expenditures.
We are now raising our 2011 full year CapEx estimate to $65 million.
We ran the bank credit facility slightly at quarter end with $27 million outstanding but we currently expect to be out of the revolver at year end when we have better collections.
In August we renewed our bank credit facility for 5 more years expanded it to a $600 million facility versus the old $260 million facility and changed it from asset-based to a cash flow type credit facility.
The interest rates subject to a grid is LIBOR plus 200; the old deal was LIBOR plus 225.
Covenants are also more favorable than our prior deal.
And finally the unused line fee is now only 35 basis points subject to a grid compared to 75 basis points unused line fee in the old facility.
So it's relatively inexpensive to carry a larger and at times unused facility.
During the third quarter we bought back a very small amount of stock and we also have bought back small amounts in the fourth quarter.
You may see us buy back additional shares in the future.
As we noted in our press release we have adjusted our fourth quarter and full year guidance.
The change in guidance is primarily as a result of 2 factors.
One we will take another big earnings hit in Q4 related to continued rain in the Marcellus Shale and that's on top of the hit we took in Q3.
Also we have recently seen softer wireless revenue in Q4 than we previously expected with the related margin impact plus we have the margin impact of the extra people for closeout work.
We now expect full year revenue of $2 910 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $255 million to $260 million and adjusted fully diluted EPS of $1.04 to $1.07.
2011 revenue of $2 910 000 000 is an increase of 26% up from $2.3 billion from 2010.
2011 adjusted EBITDA of $255 million to $260 million is an increase of 6% to 8% over $241 million a year ago.
EBITDA margin for the full year will be between 8.8% and 8.9% versus 10.4% last year and adjusted EPS of $1.04 to $1.07 compares to $1.05 last year.
The tax rate on our adjusted earnings in our 2011 full year guidance is 38.75% and the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles is about $14 million.
Now let me cover Q4 guidance.
We expect Q4 revenue of about $675 million compared to $731 million last year.
That's an 8% decrease and it reflects the Marcellus rain impact lower-than-expected Q4 wireless volume and tough comps related to a full bore Ruby pipeline project last year.
We expect Q4 EBITDA of $46 million to $51 million compared to $88 million last year and we now expect fully diluted EPS of $0.12 to $0.15 cents compared to $0.44 last year.
Regarding share count for EPS purposes and the noncash interest expense on our P&amp;L I suggest that you refer to Footnote 2 and Footnote 9 in our 10-Q for details to our calculations.
For your models I would use about 90 million shares for Q4 and about 88 million shares for the full year of 2011.
Please note that the share count can go up above the levels I just mentioned if our stock price continues to go up.
In summary we had another good quarter in the midst of a soft economy and some very tough headwinds.
We are encouraged by our organic or non-acquisition revenue growth and by our broad-based revenue and EBITDA growth trends.
We expect that 2011 will be a good year driven by full year strength in wireless pipeline install-to-the-home or DIRECTV and electrical transmission and we believe the outlook for 2012 is clearly far better especially regarding margins.
We are pleased with our backlog and also about subsequent contract signings and informal awards from our customers.
And while we are not providing 2012 revenue and earnings guidance yet we can say that we expect to see another year of double-digit organic revenue growth and a bounce back to double-digit EBITDA margins.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] At this time we'll go to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> José can you give us more color on what's happening with AT&amp;T both in 3Q and 4Q? Maybe how much of the lower guidance in 4Q was AT&amp;T versus Marcellus in terms of EPS? It seems like more of it was Marcellus.
And then your visibility around AT&amp;T spending in 4Q and in 2012.
Sure Andy.
I think when you look at 2011 on a full year basis we're going to end up having a great year in the wireless business from a revenue perspective from a growth perspective from the ability for us to meet our customers' demands.
We're obviously in this for the long term.
And I think we've positioned ourselves really well for what we think is going to be a great partnership for a long time to come.
You know when we look to Q3 in particular it was a tough quarter for us.
We had a lot of issues internally in terms of managing the work volume that we had.
We were stressed.
We've gone through now a couple of years of sustained growth of dramatic growth.
We had again dramatic growth in Q3 and at times do -- we kind of -- I feel it's almost the same thing we went through with DIRECTV a couple of years back where we were undergoing years of substantial growth and we knew at the time that we weren't as efficient as we needed to be.
And as that growth began to normalize margins went up and they went up pretty dramatically.
And I think we're in the same place in the wireless business where we really reacted to significant growth.
We've thrown bodies at it to get through and we're going to get a point where that growth begins to -- from a percentage basis become more manageable and we're going to become more efficient.
And I think we're closer to that today than I think we've ever been.
I think we're extremely well positioned for the volumes that we expect for 2012 and I think this was a year and not only meaning a tough '11 but in getting ready for what we think is going to be an even bigger '12.
So when we look at Q4 in general if we were just going to round and throw some numbers on it we see earnings in our wireless business probably down about $10 million and in our pipeline business about $20 million.
And that's pretty much the difference between where we think we'll end up in Q4 versus where we had originally guided.
So some of it in wireless; obviously the pipeline issues are a much bigger issue.
We're pretty much going to have substantially less volume there than we had expected.
If you would have asked me a month and a half ago I would've said that we're going to have a blowout Q3 and a great Q4.
And even with the wireless issues that we had in Q3 that we knew about that we were living through had we not had the issues at the Marcellus area for weather we would have had a blowout quarter.
So 2 issues I think we'll get through them.
Again think we're very bullish about 2012 and what we're seeing in the volumes and the activity levels that we expect.
Research Division</strong> José just to press you on that a little bit I think the Marcellus stuff is pretty transitory.
The wireless stuff we've heard from some other companies that AT&amp;T had strangely pulled back a bit in spending.
I mean is this a MasTec problem in the sense that you guys just have had explosive growth or was this that AT&amp;T strangely pulled back a little bit on you unexpectedly? I'm just trying to figure out sort of what happened in that sense.
I think it's a combination.
But no question that we had problems right? I think a lot of this is internal to MasTec.
We had issues in terms of managing the business levels that we had in Q3.
Those are internal issues.
Those are MasTec issues that we need to fix that we will fix that are completely within our control.
And I would say that that's the majority of it.
In Q3 I mean there was no AT&amp;T issues in Q3.
All of the Q3 issues were issues to MasTec.
When we look at Q4 based on some of those issues that we had in Q3 that some of them will go into Q4.
To some extent we've obviously staffed up for a different level of business which is going to impact margins and utilization in Q4.
The volume is lighter than we expected.
There's a how to work I mean the work plan for '12 is bigger than it was for '11.
There's are a lot of work that we're expecting to be released at any period and when it does and when it's funded we're going to be back at pretty active levels.
I think that they've had a big year they've got a big CapEx spend and they are getting into the end of the year and I think they're managing it tighter than we've seen them manage it in the past.
And we will hear next from Peter Chang with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> José in the press release you guys talked about significant subsequent awards to the close of September 30.
And plus you had a record backlog as of the quarter end.
Can you talk about how maybe that has grown? I mean it could probably help give us some greater visibility into 2012 and I appreciate you not giving 2012 guidance yet.
But double-digit organic growth I mean -- is there any more color around that comment that you can give us? Well I think in our script we talked a lot about it.
We believe that the renewable business will more than double in 2012 versus where it was in '11.
A lot of that wind and solar business that we've been awarded here lately was not in our backlog numbers so a good chunk of all of that business is not currently reflected in the backlog numbers that we've provided because that was as of September 30.
We subsequently won a lot of work in those markets.
And at the end of the day our activity is strong.
I think the one thing about 2011 as we look back we don't have a revenue issue.
We can find revenue we can win work we think we've really repositioned ourselves in the industries that we service and I think today we're a leader in the businesses.
And we're not going to have an issue being awarded work.
Our issues as it relates to Q3 and Q4 is our ability to execute and our ability to get optimal margins in the margins we won that's where we really focus on today.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That brings me to my follow-up questions on '12 EBITDA margins.
They're going to be up in the double digits.
I imagine pricing has got to be improving in the natural gas pipeline business with the Keystone being awarded.
Assuming that moves forward DIRECTV is probably similar.
Assuming you fixed the issues with AT&amp;T and then transmission is going to be a larger part of your mix and that's a higher margins business.
I mean 2012 is it feasible to expect margins to be higher than the peak that you guys saw in 2010? Look when we look at margins for '11 again we're disappointed.
We've got some room we've got a call back in to get back to 2010 margins.
When I look at the issues that we've had here at the end of Q3 and for Q4 they're not pricing issues.
We don't believe that this is a pricing issue.
We don't believe that this is contracts that we've bid in properly or we didn't bid with the right margins.
We don't think this is a market issue where prices have been driven down and we've had to lower our prices to continue to build backlog.
We don't believe that's the case.
We think that the issues that we faced in the last 3 or 4 months of this year are more related to specific issues that we think are a lot more fixable than having to deal with market pricing issues.
There's no question that the businesses that we've grown into over the course of the last few years and where we think the substantial amount of our growth is going to come from are better margin businesses which will ultimately drive up the margins of the total company.
Obviously we're not in a position to give 2012 guidance yet but I thought based on what we we're going to say in both Q3 and about Q4 it was important to give some color on 2012 at least where our mind is right and what we think we'll achieve.
And we've put out -- when we say double-digit EBITDA margins and you can obviously imply 10% we think we'll get there and we don't think it's that much of a tall order.
But again we're a lot lower than that in Q4 and we didn't deliver in Q3 so we got to get there.
And we'll go next to Min Cho with Friedman &amp; Billings Ramsey.
Research Division</strong> So obviously the Ruby pipeline project is finished.
Can you tell us if there was -- did the completion of the project result in any lingering expenses that had to be absorbed in the quarter? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay that was easy.
Can you tell us how much of the backlog growth in the quarter came from the Halsted acquisition since that was not included in the second quarter? Min I'll get you that number here in a second.
It was roughly $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay I figured.
And then finally I know you're not providing any specific guidance really.
But for the first quarter it's usually a seasonally weak quarter for you.
Do you expect that some of these issues that you're seeing in the fourth quarter could carry into the first quarter and exacerbate the normal seasonality across the board? Right because Marcellus -- because you're going to be going into a pretty cold winter weather for the Marcellus and kind of given the unpredictability of AT&amp;T right now even there could be a continuing issue into the first quarter? Min we don't think so.
Obviously Q1 is a challenging quarter for us.
We've got a lot of Ruby work that we did in Q1 of 2010 which will make Q1 of 2011 a more difficult comp.
So I think we obviously have much better visibility as we look at all of 2012 than just looking at the first quarter.
We know that our renewables business is going to be up substantially in Q1 versus where it was in last year's Q1.
Based on the pipeline work that we've got in backlog and where we know we'll be able to work and some of that will be -- this is not strictly a -- we don't have an issue working in the snow.
We've got more of an issue working in areas that are flooded right? And that's more of the issue that we're having right now.
The snow is actually not necessarily a bad thing; it might end up being a good thing as the ground hardens up.
But there's no question that the snow does affect our business and it does affect where we can work in Q1.
So we've got some businesses that we think will perform a lot better than they did in last year's Q1 and we've got others where we'll be challenged like in the pipeline business particularly because of the Ruby work.
I think Q1 is going to be a decent quarter not a great quarter but I think we've got great visibility into '12 and we think it's going to be a great year.
And we will hear next from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I was just going over the numbers that Bob gave earlier on and correct me if I'm getting something wrong.
But did you say that essentially from Marcellus and the wireless your aggregate margin hit was over 500 basis points? No.
Those were -- I think it was 250 basis points in the pipeline business only in the pipeline business not total company and 300 basis points in the wireless business.
Just for those businesses.
Aggregately in Q3 it was just over -- it was probably 120 basis points or so for the whole company.
Research Division</strong> Ah okay got it.
Okay.
That makes much more sense okay.
As you look at 2012 you are sort of qualitatively guiding us on how things look.
Would you give us -- the issues you've seen in the third and fourth quarter all of your businesses [ph] are also susceptible to weather issues.
Is that guidance now sort of something that you're looking at with weather in mind? Tahira I think we've done a good job over the  course of the last couple of years of doing what we say we're going to do.
It's a very important part of how we think going forward.
It's putting out numbers that we think are very achievable and I think we've demonstrated that over an extended period of time.
We're obviously very disappointed with the message that we're obviously putting out for Q4 and what it means.
So we've absolutely looked at not only Q4 but 2012 in a way in which we much rather be on call as we were telling you how well we're doing and how we're beating the numbers that we've put out rather than having to explain why we were going to miss something.
So we've absolutely taken that into account.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
José you've been very candid with us on this call and in the past you've been very helpful.
You'd also expressed a lot of confidence that the productivity issues you essentially faced on the wireless side are going to be addressed.
Could you provide us a little more color on how -- what you're doing internally to really address those issues perhaps organizational changes or change in performance incentive etc.? So I'll give you a little bit of color on that Tahira.
We're obviously in the middle of a negotiation with AT&amp;T so I don't want to talk too much about the business in particular other than to say we had our challenges.
We had challenges in specific markets we know exactly the areas that we need to fix.
We've taken very strong measures to improve that already.
So I think that if you looked at our full year and as the quarter ramps the business actually improves from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the fourth quarter.
So I think that they're very identifiable things that we're doing that I think are going to have a direct impact to margins right away and we've made a lot of changes internally in the organization that we think make that happen.
So again some of the reason for our confidence and some of the reason that we think we can get back to the margins that we've historically achieved in that business are because we know exactly what the problems are we think the problems are fixable and we've already taken actions to fix them.
So it's not like we're having to identify what's going on or uncertain about what's happening or not really sure how to fix them.
We think we've figured it out.
We know what the problems are and we've either addressed them or deepen the process of addressing them.
And we'll go next to Theodore O'Neil with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on the 2012 the 35-state generator work that you've got.
So we were rewarded a project earlier this year.
It's obviously a generator rollout project.
We will be installing generators on different cell sites.
The project is estimated to be about a 4-year project.
It had a very slow kickoff in 2011.
We did some planning work around it.
Work will accelerate into 2012 and then really start to build in '13 and '14.
So '12 is going to be a much bigger year than 2011 in that project '13 gets bigger and '14 and '15 stay strong.
Research Division</strong> Is this upgrades to existing generators that are there or places where there's just not -- there isn't any kind of backup? Well it's mostly the installation of generators on sites that didn't have them although there are some replacements of existing generators.
And we will go next to Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask first on BlueFire.
On Monday they announced Chinese financing.
Are we getting closer to the point where you're going to put that $300 million contract into your backlog? Well it's obviously great news.
We're excited for BlueFire.
We continue to work with them very closely on what they're trying to do.
It's a big piece of the puzzle.
They obviously still need their loan guarantees from the government.
That process obviously slowed down what happened with Solyndra.
We think they're making progress there.
We think we're starting to see light at the end of the tunnel.
Although the announcement on Monday doesn't necessarily make it a green light tomorrow but it obviously makes it a lot closer to getting a green light.
We are under contract on that project.
It is our project.
We don't expect that project to be rebid.
We've got a good relationship with them.
We're working and helping them in every possible way we can to make that project become viable and come to fruition and we feel better and better about it every day.
And we're not going to put it into backlog until they've got a green light it's done it's fully funded and we're ready to start work.
But we're a lot closer to that today than we were in our last call.
Research Division</strong> Good.
I also wanted to ask about 2 smaller pieces of your business but pieces that seem to be turning around where the outlook has improved kind of for the first time in 3 years.
Wireline communications and distribution.
Qualitatively how do you feel about those businesses as you look forward to 2012? Well they're still businesses that are very challenged.
When you look at maintenance spend per se which is the predominant nature of those businesses have been -- it's flat.
When you look at historically those businesses were carried by new housing construction or the expansion of plan in the new subdivisions.
That business still has not come back.
So I think fundamentally they're businesses that are no longer in decline which is good.
They're businesses that aren't necessarily posting big growth rates either with the exception of the Wireline business.
You've got a pretty aggressive stimulus program out there in the rural side of the business which is really driving the growth.
And we've been successful at it.
I think there's a lot of work in the industry.
I think that's what's going to drive that business in particular for the next couple of years.
As housing comes back both of those businesses will improve.
But until housing does we're not very bullish on that business outside of stimulus until the housing market comes back.
And we'll hear next from Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Coming back to the [indiscernible] or the troubled projects I should say in the Marcellus.
Can you talk about the duration of these 3 projects the original timeframe for them? And then if any of them have entered the loss position? So the projects will -- 2 of the projects are fairly large in size.
They're probably just under $100 million a piece.
Those are projects -- in one instance we've actually completed a good amount of the work earlier as the year went on.
We're at a phase where we'll complete the second phase of that job which is what we're working.
Another one is more in the startup base which is why we're kind of pushing out and waiting until the weather and the construction period becomes better for us to be able to get on that job and finish it in a timely manner.
Both of those projects should be complete probably early to late second quarter.
The third project is an important project for us.
It's more of an MSA-type project where we've got a lot of different work orders.
We've been working for that customer for a very long time.
It's a very large customer for us in that area.
We've done very well with them over a long period.
And we're just working on a couple of projects right now that are challenged because of the weather.
From a loss position we did -- the pipeline business had an excellent third quarter.
Obviously our issue isn't that it lost money but rather we were expecting better margins than what it delivered.
So it was more of a margin deterioration not necessarily a loss position.
On some of the projects that we're looking at in Q4 and one in particular we do expect that project to be in a loss position unless something else changes which is what we've got into.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you've done a good job of shifting your pipeline work from the weakness in the long haul market in 2011 into the shale fields.
But can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of these longer haul interstate pipeline opportunities in 2012? Yes.
So I'd actually like to say 2 things about that.
One is I do think it's important to note that the majority of our pipeline business today is in the shale business.
We've been working in shales across the country.
We've had tremendous success in the shales.
A good chunk actually about half of our shale business was completely unaffected by weather and performed very well in Q3 and will perform very well in Q4.
So this is strictly a geographic issue specifically related to the Marcellus Shale.
And again we've had a lot of success in the Marcellus Shale in the past.
We don't think it's a pricing issue.
So we really think this is a short-term issue related to Marcellus.
As we look at long-haul projects which is obviously another piece of our business we're very bullish on what's happening in 2012.
There's a number of very large projects out there that we've been engaged in.
We think we're going to have good success on that side of the business in '12 and beyond and we're getting excited about that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
Given the competitive pressures in the renewable market are you -- with all this work you're booking now for next year are you booking that work at better margins than you're currently seeing on the renewables projects or is it still pretty competitive? Renewables margins took a dip in 2010 going into '11 Obviously '10 and 11 were very difficult years in that market from a margin perspective.
2012 for the industry in general is going to be a banner year.
A lot of our competitors in that space that directly compete with us have very similar backlog build as we do.
So there's a lot of work being awarded right now to a number of players and pricing has dramatically improved in that business in the last 4 months.
And we will hear next from Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You had a nice step up in transmission both organically and then with the EC Source project.
How has the bidding activity been in that area? It's been very good.
And obviously we've been able to grow our legacy business.
A lot of that business that we do in our legacy business is shorter duration.
There's a lot of book and burn maybe a quarter or 2 out.
So it's been a very active market it's been a very good market and an improving market.
From the large project perspective there are a number of very large projects that are in the bidding cycle.
So the funnel is extremely strong right now in both sides of that business.
And we'll hear next from Alex Cook [ph] with Voyant Advisors.
Could you guys talk about the increase in headcount and where these employees fully utilized during the quarter? And how do you expect them to be utilized going forward? Sure.
So we had a big headcount spike in the second quarter.
We hired a couple of thousand people actually going from Q1 to Q2.
As we looked at our Q3 headcount adds it was much smaller.
It was relatively flat.
I think we added a couple of hundred heads across the different businesses.
When we looked at our headcount adds they're obviously in businesses that have shown dramatic growth.
So a lot of the growth that we saw in Q3 we were able to achieve because of the headcount additions that we made in Q2.
We're obviously going to rationalize some of that as we look at Q3 and Q4.
We have a lot of new bodies that hit the ground.
Some of those ended up obviously being very good and some were somewhat inefficient and we'll go through that and hopefully have a much better workforce as we look forward.
But we see -- we saw a spike based on the growth that we were going to expect in Q2 and Q3 and not atypical.
That's the time of the year where we go through a larger hiring time in our business.
We saw the same thing in 2010 from Q2 to Q3.
We added about 1 000 heads so it's not something that's atypical for us.
Now it's about keeping the right ones and really being in a position to utilize that workforce at a much better level in 2012.
So I guess if things do slow down in 2012 how fast will you guys be able to reduce the headcount? Well the headcount is spread out amongst all our different businesses.
So a couple of things is -- we're obviously not expecting a slowdown in 2012 and again we think we've got extremely good visibility.
We've got growing backlog for example in our renewables business.
That business will more than double next year based on the backlog that we've got.
So we've obviously been hiring in that business and that headcount in that business is up and it's up so that we can meet the demands that we're going to have in 2012.
In businesses where we might see a slowdown we've got a lot of flexibility in what we can do with labor and if for whatever reason we don't think that the growth is going to be there we'll adjust our workforce.
Our next question comes from Veny Alexandrov with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> The one question that I have left.
The 2 projects that are in the Marcellus are you going to have any penalties because of the delays from the clients? No because at the end of the day we expect to meet the schedule so we're just...
LLC Research Division</strong> So you do expect to be on schedule? Yes we do.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if you're not on schedule are there any penalties for delays in the contracts? I think in one there is.
I don't think in the others there are.
But they're not -- the penalties are very small.
So we're not -- we're actually not concerned about that at all.
And we will go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> If we could just go back to the AT&amp;T for a second.
José you talked about the growth you saw in the third quarter but you also said you're going to be down $40 million sequentially in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just trying to understand why you're confidence of that business then is going to grow again in 2012.
Well I think we've got great visibility into that business.
So if we step back into 2010 we fully understood what their build plan was going to be for 2011.
And if you go back to our original guidance that we provided at the end of 2010 from a wireless perspective and where we end in 2011 we'll actually beat that.
Now it accelerated.
The plan was probably built in a shorter duration of the year than we had expected so we expected to be able to do that build plan over the 12 month period.
That build plan accelerated; we did more of the work within the first 9 months.
And really the expectation as we were working through that was ultimately AT&amp;T was going to allocate more capital to do a lot of the work that they had planned.
That necessarily hasn't happened.
We do have a very good understanding of what their 2012 build plan is and it's a lot bigger than what their 2011 build plan was.
So we've got very good visibility into the full year outlook for AT&amp;T.
Exactly when they spend the money and how they roll that out over the years they're still determining that and figuring that out.
Obviously we would already love to be working on a lot of that in terms of starting a lot of the pre-work.
We're doing some but not as much as we had hoped.
And I think that's probably has a lot to do with where we expect the revenue to be down in Q3 and Q4 versus where we expect it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It is it your sense -- I mean I think it was last quarter or the quarter before that you talked about getting more work in new markets for you up in the I think was the Illinois area.
Is it your sense that you've kept your same market share with AT&amp;T expanded it sort of where are you there? And AT&amp;T talks about these major contracts.
I mean are you in the same market position that you've been with them previously or has that changed at all? No we're in the same markets that we've been in for all year.
We had no changes to the market in Q3 and we'll have no changes to the market in Q4.
Obviously we're in negotiations with AT&amp;T on a new contract.
That's not finalized but we'll  -- our expectation is that we have a great relationship with them.
We expect to continue to grow with them and we've been really trying to build the business with other customers right? And I think we've been somewhat successful with that obviously with the size of where AT&amp;T has been.
It doesn't show on the radar but we're working for more customers today than we've traditionally worked for or work in the different geographic areas.
So obviously part of it -- part of our expansion in wireless is outside of AT&amp;T and with other customers and we think the opportunities are there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you mention what those other customers are at this point? Are they on time big enough to do that? We've talked about our desire to grow with Verizon.
I think we've made in roads there.
We're doing more work for them than we've historically done although obviously it's nowhere near the scale of AT&amp;T so doesn't necessarily show up on the radar.
I think it's very public out there what Sprint's plans are.
And they've awarded the project to more OEMs and we've been working closely with them to break in and try to do more to work with them.
So there's a lot of work out there there's a lot of second-tier customers that we're working for as well.
So just like we worked very hard in diversifying our overall business over the last couple of years we're working hard at diversifying our business within wireless.
And we will go next to William Bremer.
Research Division</strong> From the Maxim Group.
With Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My first question starts with -- give us some update on your large-scale transmission project the Mona-Oquirrh transmission line and an idea of what you're currently operating now in terms of your capacity in that segment? Well we've said about it all along is that project will -- is a bigger story for '12 than it was for '11.
It will go in slightly into 2013 and the project is on schedule.
Research Division</strong> How many miles have you completed at this time? Bill we're not going to get into specific jobs and where we're at with them.
Obviously there's a lot of customer issues with that and we're just not going to do it.
And our final question is a follow-up from Noelle Dilts with Stifle Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
On the renewables -- I'm sorry.
On the wireless side could you talk about how much of that work is outsourced at this point? We're outsourcing about half of it.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to José Mas for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes.
I just like to thank everybody for participating today.
We look forward to our next call on providing a much better outlook on 2012.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you so much for your participation.
Welcome to the MasTec Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on March 1 2012.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Good morning.
Thank you everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will primarily be discussing adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release 10-K and supporting schedules.
In addition we may make certain -- use of certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
Also a reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP measure can be found in our earnings press release or 10-K and on the Investor Relations side of our website at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A answer period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of things to talk about today so I'd like to turn it over to José.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's fourth quarter and year-end call.
Today I'll discuss our full-year results and provide an overview of 2012.
Before getting into details I'd like to take a step back and make some observations.
A few years ago we publicly set out to diversify our business and put ourselves in a position to have greater growth opportunities with improved margins.
Over the course of the last 5 years we've tripled revenues and almost quadrupled EBITDA.
We've accomplished our objectives despite a difficult market environment.
While these are impressive financial results our greatest accomplishment is how we've positioned ourselves across a number of growth industries which we feel will offer us expanding opportunities for both continued growth and better margins during an improving market environment which we are today clearly seeing.
For 2011 annual revenues were $3 009 000 000 a 30% increase.
We had solid and broad-based growth with our Install-to-the-Home business growing 25% our Wireline and Utility business growing 24% our Wireless business growing 59% our Pipeline business growing 38% our Transmission business growing 205% and these were offset by a reduction of 35% in our Renewable business.
As I mentioned earlier we've done an excellent job of both diversifying our business and positioning ourselves to capitalize on some great growth opportunities.
More importantly we believe every one of these markets including renewables will continue to provide significant opportunities for consistent growth for the foreseeable future.
From an earnings perspective we finished 2011 with $1.07 of EPS $261 million of EBITDA and an EBITDA margin of 8.7%.
While 2011 was another record year for MasTec I am not satisfied or happy with our margin results.
Our margins were negatively impacted by the second half performance of both our Wireless and Pipeline businesses.
While disappointed I'm encouraged by our progress and believe we will see significant margin improvements in 2012.
Again just to reflect we made tremendous margin improvements from 2007 to 2010 taking EBITDA margins from 7% to 10.4% while we slipped in 2011 we have set an initial goal of 10% EBITDA margins for 2012 a 130-basis point improvement from last year.
I can guarantee that as a company we are focused and driven to improve margins in 2012 and beyond.
We expect margins to steadily improve as the year goes on especially as we complete our challenged projects in the Marcellus area and as wireless spending begins to aggressively ramp up.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue was up 12% for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus 2010 and up 33% for the full year.
Our Install to the Home business was up 24% for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus 2010 and up 25% for the full year.
Growth was driven by both organic growth and our acquisition of Halsted a provider in the northeastern United States.
The integration of this business has been smoother than expected and in 2012 we'll enjoy a full-year contribution from Halsted.
We expect organic growth to be in the mid-single-digits and anticipate the sale of our retail sales business sometime in the second quarter.
Our Wireline business was up 32% for the quarter and 24% for the full year.
The growth is being driven by work associated with broadband stimulus and we expect strong results for both 2012 and 2013.
We also expect to see continued improvement in this market as new housing construction begins to rebound.
Our wireless business was down 2% in the fourth quarter versus 2010 down 22% or $41 million sequentially and up 59% for the full year of 2011 versus 2010.
During the quarter we announced the extension of our wireless contract with our largest customer.
This new 3-year agreement covers all of the geographic area we previously had with expansion in 2 new markets.
The renewal and extension of this contract was extremely important for the future growth of this business.
As we explained on our last call wireless margins were negatively impacted by a dramatic increase in our workforce and self-performed capabilities and the inefficiencies created by the less experienced workforce.
While we had strong annual revenue growth the impact of the breakup of the AT&amp;T and T-Mobile deal led to certain delays which negatively affected both the fourth quarter revenues and the first quarter of 2012.
We expect wireless revenue to be down about 10% in the first quarter but be up for the year.
We now have excellent visibility into our full-year plan with our largest customer and we continue to pursue a number of opportunities to expand and diversify our customer base in this business.
We believe that this market affords us long-term growth prospects as data continues to play a larger role in wireless devices and as 4G continues to be rolled out throughout the world.
Our utility revenue was down 2% for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus 2010 and up 28% for the full year.
Revenues in our Transmission business more than tripled in both the fourth quarter of 2011 and for the full year.
The revenue growth came from our acquisition of EC Source earlier in 2011 and from about 60% organic growth for both the quarter and the year.
We expect significant continued growth in this market for 2012 and beyond the bidding activity for transmission projects remains very strong and there are a number of very large opportunities that we are pursuing.
Shifting to our Pipeline business.
Revenues were up 38% for the year and down about $60 million in the fourth quarter.
I'd like to note that in the fourth quarter of 2010 the Ruby pipeline represented about $143 million of revenues.
We offset $83 million of the Ruby revenue in our Pipeline business despite a difficult quarter in Marcellus due to weather.
Had we had normal weather conditions we believe that the business would've been almost flat for the quarter.
The Ruby pipeline accounted for approximately $200 million of revenue in 2011 and we are confident in our ability to backfill that work and deliver similar results in 2012.
Our activity levels in the different shale basins across the country remains high and we are seeing an increasing number of opportunities across all regions.
The delay of the Keystone pipeline has had a negative effect on both competition and pricing and any positive developments related to that project will have a very positive impact on the industry.
During 2011 we successfully closed on our acquisition of a Canadian pipeline company and are very bullish on that market and the opportunities available to us.
In addition to the shale business there are a number of large interstate jobs that will start in late 2012 and go well into 2013 and 2014.
We are well-positioned in this market and continue to believe that it will be a source of growth for us for years to come.
Moving to Renewables.
Revenues for 2011 were down 35% compared to 2010.
While 2011 was a tough year for Renewables 2012 is shaping up to be a great year.
Our bookings in the wind market are at record levels and we expect to construct and deliver over 1 500 megawatts in 2012.
With the expiration of the 1603 cash grants at the end of 2011 this year is expected to be one of the best years the industry has seen.
As we look forward beyond 2012 we are encouraged about the level of activity associated with extensions for wind-related tax credits and are optimistic that an agreement will be reached.
In any case we are taking a more macro view of our Renewable business and expanding our power generation capabilities.
We are focused on participating in the construction of power-generating assets whether they are wind solar or thermal-related.
The solar market will be an area of solid growth as we were awarded a number of projects in late 2011 and early 2012.
The solar market enjoys tax credits that extend through 2016 and we expect this market to be an increasing part of our business.
We have also over the last year spoken about our desire and investment in growing our thermal power business.
We are pleased to announce that within the last few weeks we have been awarded contracts to construct 2 50 megawatts peaker plants.
These are gas turbine plants located in North Dakota that will provide needed power to support the Bakken oil and gas boom.
These are important projects in the evolution of our power business and hopefully the first of many.
Based on our currently contracted work in this business we expect 2012 to be a great year and revenues to more than double those of 2011.
I would now like to comment on guidance for 2012.
We expect revenues of approximately $3.25 billion with approximately $325 million of EBITDA.
Since we expect to sell our DirectStar business sometime in the second quarter this represents about 12% revenue growth and a return to double-digit EBITDA margin.
I strongly believe that we have never been in a better position to take advantage of the opportunities our different markets are affording us and I am certain that 2012 will be another record year for MasTec.
I would now like to turn the call to our CFO Bob Campbell.
Thank you José and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover fourth quarter and full-year 2011 financial results and Q1 guidance and 2012 full-year guidance.
And I'll also cover cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
Before I start I want to remind you of 2 material items that are included in our 2011 results.
First in the second quarter we had a $29 million pretax remeasurement gain related to our purchase of 100% of EC Source our big project electrical transmission company.
And second in the fourth quarter we had a $6 million pretax expense for the withdrawal liability related to our leaving the underfunded Teamsters Central States Pension Plan.
Both of these items are in our financial statements of course but I backed out both items for my remarks today.
Therefore all of my remarks today will refer to adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA without these 2 items.
The impact on our P&amp;L of backing out the $29 million EC Source remeasurement gain and adding back the $6 million Teamster pension withdrawal expense is as follows: Backing out the 2 items lowers full-year net before tax profit by $23 million and lowers EBITDA by the same amount and the 2 items lower fully diluted EPS by $0.16.
We have provided adjusted numbers and reconciliation to GAAP data in the tables attached to our press release and also in our SEC filings.
Before I get into details let me give you a quick overview.
Q4 was at the upper end of our earnings guidance.
For the full year of 2011 we had record revenue record EBITDA and record net income.
Despite the record year as José mentioned 2011 should have been better especially regarding margins and cash flow.
And in a minute I'll give you a bridge from 2011 to 2012 for both margins and cash flow.
In 2011 we had good renewals with our 2 largest customers.
We renewed with AT&amp;T Wireless for 3 more years and we extended our DIRECTV contract for 4 years.
We made 5 good acquisitions in 2011.
EC Source gave us a platform in the big project electrical transmission world.
Fabcor in Western Canada gave us an oil and gas pipeline and facilities platform in Canada and a beachhead from which to add other MasTec businesses in Canada.
And we were pleased to add significant new territory in the Northeast with DIRECTV via the Halsted acquisition.
For 2012 we are projecting revenue of $3 250 000 000 with $325 million of EBITDA and fully diluted earnings per share of $1.42.
We are assuming that we will sell DirectStar our DIRECTV marketing company in the second quarter and after adjusting for the DirectStar sale that's about 12% revenue growth in 2012 and that's 10% EBITDA margin bouncing back to margins similar to 2010.
2012 is about solid execution better margins and better cash flow.
And finally let me say that our capital structure and liquidity remain in great shape.
One of the highlights of 2011 was securing a $600 million bank credit facility on very favorable terms and which dramatically increased our liquidity.
Our liquidity at year end was $470 million compared to $284 million a year ago.
We calculate liquidity as unrestricted cash plus availability from our bank credit facility.
Now let me go into the details of our results.
As I mentioned fourth quarter earnings were at the upper end of our guidance range.
Although revenue was higher than guidance margins were below guidance levels.
The 2 issues impacting margins in Q4 were the same as in Q3.
First we had several pipeline projects with wet terrain and margin and profit issues.
And second we had lower productivity and margins in our Wireless business.
Q4 revenue was $774 million up a respectable 6% versus last year given the tough comps related to the strong Ruby pipeline revenue in Q4 of 2010.
The growth was led by our electrical transmission business which was up 246% helped by the EC Source acquisition.
Our legacy transmission business in Q4 was up 62% and that was all organic.
Install to the Home which is primarily DIRECTV was up 24% in total and up 6% organically after backing out the impact of the Halsted acquisition.
Wireless was down slightly year-over-year in Q4 and wireless was down about $40 million sequentially from Q3.
Pipeline in Q4 was down $60 million year-over-year.
In the fourth quarter of 2010 the Ruby pipeline project was going at full speed.
Renewables was down about $20 million in Q4 ending a really soft year for this business.
Q4 EBITDA was $52 million compared to our guidance of $46 million to $51 million but well below last year's blowout quarter where we had $88 million of EBITDA.
Q4 fully diluted earnings per share was $0.15 at the top end of our $0.12 to $0.15 guidance but substantially below the $0.44 we earned a year ago.
Q4 EBITDA margin was 6.8% which was hurt by productivity and margin issues in Wireless and profit issues on several pipeline jobs.
Fourth quarter of 2010 EBITDA margin was 12.1%.
I'll provide an EBITDA margin bridge for 2012 a little later.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 the 10 largest customers were: DIRECTV with 25% of total revenue in Q4.
We were up 24% in Q4 and 26% for the full year of 2011.
And the organic growth without Halsted was 4% in Q4 and 15% for the full year.
AT&amp;T was 19% of total revenue in Q4.
Our revenue with AT&amp;T was down 10% in Q4 versus last year but up 45% for the full year.
MidAmerican Energy was 5% of revenue included in that number is our big electrical transmission project in Utah being handled by EC Source and wind farm work handled by Wanzek Construction.
EQT and Duke energy were both 4% of revenue.
EQT is a shale pipeline customer and Duke is a wind farm customer.
Dominion Virginia Power Energy Transfer DCP Midstream and Spectra Energy were all at 3% of revenue.
Dominion Energy Transfer and DCP Midstream are shale pipeline customers and Spectra is a Canadian natural gas facilities customer.
And finally Talisman a shale pipeline customer rounded out the list with 2% of revenue.
Regarding diversification.
Our top 10 customers in Q4 include 1 telecom customer 1 satellite television customer 6 oil and gas customers 1 wind farm customer and 1 electrical transmission customer.
For the full year of 2011 we had record revenue record EBITDA and record net income and we topped $3 billion in revenue for the first time.
It is worth noting that revenue has grown from $1 billion in 2007 to $3 billion in 2011.
And more importantly EBITDA has grown at a faster rate from $73 million in '07 up to $261 million in 2011.
Over the last 4 years our compound average revenue growth rate has been 30% and the compound average EBITDA growth for the same period is somewhat higher at 38%.
We're pretty proud of the improvement in our results especially because the improvement has come during a period of generally soft markets and a weak economy.
2011 full year revenue increased by $701 million to $3 billion or a 30% increase and organic revenue growth was 19%.
2011 full year EBITDA of $261 million was up 8%.
2011 fully diluted -- full year fully diluted EPS was $1.07 compared to $1.05 a year ago.
On a 2011 full year basis we had broad-based revenue growth in all areas except renewables.
Transmission revenue more than tripled Wireless was up almost 60%.
Pipeline up almost 40%.
Wireline and Install to the Home both grew about 25% with Renewables which has become a smaller part of our overall mix that was down about 35%.
Our revenue mix is split between one-time non-recurring construction projects and what we call Master Service Agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenue.
For 2011 59% of our revenue came from Master Service Agreements or similar contracts and 41% came from one-time non-recurring construction projects.
What we call Master Service Agreements and similar contracts are briefly as follows: Generally these contracts are for multiple years often 3 to 5 years and generally they are exclusive for a certain geography or territory.
Most of these contracts have some kind of price escalation language or some other price adjustment mechanism.
Although these contracts do not contain revenue guarantees and they do allow cancellation under certain circumstances in reality the revenue from these contracts is pretty predictable.
These contracts generally go to full term and are not canceled and our renewal rate is extremely high.
I just wanted to highlight that even though our one-time non-recurring project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from these Master Service Agreements and similar contracts.
At year end our backlog was $3.3 billion and that's a record level for us.
As always I'm giving you an 18-month backlog number.
The comparable number at year end a year ago was $2.4 billion and $3.1 billion at the end of the 2011 second quarter.
Our backlog includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from Master Service Agreements and other similar contracts.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
We had negative free cash flow in 2011 after having very good cash flows in recent years.
The cash flow deterioration was primarily due to the large increase in accounts receivable but it was also negatively impacted by increases in inventories CapEx and cash taxes.
We're currently projecting a dramatic improvement in free cash flow for 2012 and we expect that improvement will come from 3 areas.
First EBITDA should grow from $261 million to $325 million and earnings are always a great source of cash flow.
Second we expect our accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs to level off in 2012 after a dramatic increase in 2011.
And third after a big increase in capital expenditures in 2011 as compared to '10 we currently expect that CapEx will be down slightly in 2012.
Now let me add some color to my cash flow comments.
As I mentioned the biggest negative cash flow item was accounts receivable growth.
Part of the growth in AR is understandable.
2011 revenue did increase by about $700 million.
However the real issue is that our accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs went up dramatically in 2011.
We closed 2010 with an almost too-good-to-be-true DSO of 56 days and we closed 2011 at a too high 79 days.
Our DSO calculations include our unbilled revenue.
Every day of DSO is worth $8.4 million in cash so the DSO increase hurt our 2011 cash flow by about $180 million.
For your information the year end 2010 56-day DSO was helped by some very favorable early payment arrangements for projects that we worked on during 2010 and were completed in 2011.
And as we discussed on the third quarter call in our wireless business we had a backlog of projects to close out and bill that could not be cleared out by year end.
And as a practical matter from a mixed standpoint normalized Wireless DSOs are substantially worse than company average even without a backlog and closeouts and billing.
We had a pretty good cash flow quarter in Q4 driven by improvement in Wireless collections.
However as I mentioned on the third quarter call some of the collections on the catch-up wireless billing will take place in 2012.
I've said for years that our long-term DSO goal was 60 days.
And after years of trying we hit and beat that goal in 2010.
However when we look at our current mix of business and customers and contracts I believe that we are now destined to have DSOs in the 70s although we believe we can do better than our current 79 days.
And for your information our peers are generally in the 70s and 80s.
As I've said before you will likely see going forward some volatility in DSOs due to either the positive or negative impact of big projects with different payment patterns.
We had a $29 million increase in inventories in 2011 the majority of that was to support wireless growth although there was some growth related to DIRECTV.
Regarding capital spending we spent $72 million for 2011 compared to $30 million for 2010.
We're a much bigger company today and Pipeline and Electrical Transmission are more capital-intensive than the rest of MasTec.
Some of the 2011 increase related to our shale pipeline growth and a portion of the increase was accelerated expenditures to take advantage of the 100% bonus tax depreciation for 2011 expenditures.
Our current forecast for 2012 CapEx is $65 million down just a little from 2011.
Earn-out payments have been declining.
They peaked in 2010 and that year included the $67 million buyout of the majority of the wireless and Nsoro earn-out.
In dollars we spent $81 million on cash earn-outs in 2010 $45 million in 2011 and our current estimate for 2012 is $22 million.
The biggest earn-outs have been for wireless which we have now substantially bought out and for DirectStar our DIRECTV marketing company that we expect to sell in Q2.
Another use of cash in 2011 was stock buybacks.
In November we announced a $75 million buyback and we completed the $75 million in purchases last year at an average price of $16.33.
In December last year we announced another $75 million stock buyback authorization but we have not bought any shares under that authorization.
Now let me talk for a minute about our capital structure.
As a quick capital structure summary at year end we had $811 million in equity $495 million of total debt only $475 million in net debt that's net of cash and we expect to have $325 million of 2012 EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios are in very good shape.
I'd like to note 3 things about our capital structure.
First we have no significant maturities until '14 '16 and '17.
And second all of our debt has attractive interest rates and terms.
And third we have tremendous availability from our new $600 million mostly unused bank credit facility.
Availability from our new bank credit facility at year-end was $450 million.
Our 2012 full-year guidance is revenue of $3 250 000 000 EBITDA of $325 million and fully diluted EPS of $1.42.
The 2012 revenue projections represent an 8% increase over $3 billion for 2011.
And after adjusting for the likely Q2 sale of DirectStar that's a 12% year-over-year revenue increase.
Our 2012 EBITDA projection of $325 million is a 25% increase over EBITDA up $261 million last year.
The 2012 EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10% which compares to 8.7% last year.
And I'll discuss margins in more detail in a moment.
And EPS of $1.42 is a 33% increase over $1.07 of EPS last year.
Our 2012 full-year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39.75% and cash taxes of about 90% of book taxes.
Acquisition amortization expense is estimated at about $12 million for 2012 down from $14 million last year.
Our estimate for full-year share count for fully diluted EPS is about $86 million shares.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
There's information about share count for EPS purposes in Footnote 2 in our 10-K.
My final comment about our 2012 full-year guidance is about margins.
The EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10% bouncing back to a level similar to what we achieved in 2010.
Now let me bridge from the 8.7% EBITDA margin in 2011 to the 10% expected in 2012.
Let me give you 5 reasons that give us comfort that we can bounce back to double-digit margins in 2012: First we believe that the wireless productivity and margin issues in the third and fourth quarters were mostly contained and corrected in 2011.
Second the pipeline Marcellus Shale wet terrain profit issues on several projects were mostly dealt with financially last year although there will be some margin drag through the first half of the year.
Third the Halsted DIRECTV acquisition that we made in 2011 was a fixer-upper that contributed modest margin in 2011.
However we're making good progress improving that business.
So instead of roughly $60 million in revenue with modest margin in '11 we should have a full year of about $110 million in revenue at better margins.
Fourth our Renewables business is expected to double in 2012 and the majority of the incremental gross profit should flow through to the bottom line.
And finally we expect that our electrical transmission revenue will grow this year and the margins should be higher than company average.
Now let me give you Q1 guidance numbers and some color about the quarter and I'll share with you how we see the year unfolding.
We currently project Q1 revenue of about $725 million compared to $618 million last year and that's an increase of 17%.
We project EBITDA of $50 million to $53 million compared to $58 million last year.
And we project Q1 fully diluted EPS of $0.15 to $0.17 compared to $0.26 last year.
I'll cover 3-year -- 3 issues relative to the year-over-year comparisons.
First Q1 2011 including the Ruby project going at full speed with excellent margins.
Second we expect our wireless volume to be soft in Q1.
We now have visibility for the full year's build plan with AT&amp;T and it looks good but our volumes are light in the first 2 months of this year then we expect to start rolling with good volume in March.
And third we have several pipeline projects with depressed profitability to finish in the first half of the year.
So conceptually we see Q1 as somewhat light and then anticipate much better results in the remaining quarters.
For those of you who may not be familiar with MasTec it is worth noting that Q1 is normally our weakest quarter by a wide margin and then we start rolling in Q2.
So Q1 2012 pretty much fits our normal seasonal pattern.
In summary 2011 was a record year in terms of revenue EBITDA and net income.
2012 is all about execution and we expect to bounce back to 10% EBITDA margin and to generate much better cash flow.
We expect another record year for MasTec in terms of revenue and earnings.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So Bob gave us a lot of information on why the margins are going to go up again in '12.
You know when I look at sort of a 10% or better EBITDA margin Jose I mean if I compare it to 2010 it almost seems like as long as you'd get the Marcellus issues out of the way it's a pretty low bar.
I mean like at first I thought maybe it's a bit aggressive but when I look at it you got a much bigger Transmission business in '12 than '10 Renewables should be better Wireless maybe the same Pipeline maybe a little worse.
But sort of is that the right way to think about it or is this harder than I think to do? Andy I think we've said all along that 10% isn't our long-term objective or goal.
Actually we set 10% as a goal back in 2007 when we were at 7% and we said we wanted to get to double-digit EBITDA margins it took us a couple of years but we got there.
It's not our optimal goal.
We've said all along that we think that there's significant margin improvement available that was over time with -- and I think -- and I know we keep saying it and I think it's really important what we've done over the last couple of years has been in a very difficult market environment.
Our markets are not affording the different contractors across the country to get optimal pricing to increase pricing.
It's almost been quite the opposite for the last few years where people have really been struggling to get work to keep their people busy.
That's going to have a substantial impact on margins across our entire company as the market environment improves which it is clearly doing today.
So 10% is not our long-term objective by any stretch of the imagination.
10% is our objective for 2012 because we're coming off some issues for 2011.
So if you think about our margin story for 2012 it's all about getting the troubled Pipeline projects behind us which we think we do in the first half of the year having a normal seasonal ramp in Wireless which I think was a little bit slowed because of the AT&amp;T and T-Mobile deal if not I think fourth quarter and first quarter would be a little bit better because but it's definitely going to ramp as the year goes on because we're great visibility into our annual plan.
So with those 2 issues with Pipeline being normalized and I think there's a lot of work in the Pipeline business and I think it's going to be a very good business for the next couple of years at least.
And just getting back to a normal ramp in wireless.
The margin story kind of takes care of itself and then the question really becomes how much better can we perform over time than the 10% that we're talking about for 2012.
Research Division</strong> It seems like it should be better over time I agree José.
So just following up on the margins in the different sense.
You're building out your power generation capabilities.
That's going to result in larger more chunky projects.
How do you look at risk of these -- like these peaker plants.
They don't seem hard José but at the same time it's different than your MSA business of the past.
So how do you look at that? I think our business is very different than it was in the past right? So we've absolutely changed from being predominantly an M&amp;A driven business to being a business that's much more diversified and much more balanced I think.
Over the course of the last few years I think we've delivered on our project work obviously with some exceptions and we've got a black eye on us from the fourth quarter.
But outside of that I think we've done a phenomenal job at managing our projects and managing risk.
What I do think it's really important to think about when you think about MasTec is our projects tend to be short-duration so even these peaker plants are about a year-long 1 year-long projects it's not like we're out there for multiple years and they're not really large.
So we're not bidding on multi-hundred million dollar projects we're bidding on projects that are sub-hundred million dollars in that world and we think it's very easy to manage that risk as it relates to our total portfolio.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is sort of a follow-up on and Andy's thing but I guess not a concern but maybe perhaps the other way around.
If you look at the natural gas power plant business in terms of the structure of how a power plant is built.
Probably one of the simplest things to do within that range and given that Wanzek in terms of its capabilities and in terms of the equipment it has should be able to do bigger plants.
Are you also looking at opportunities beyond the peaker plant side? You're going to see 20 to 30 gigawatts of coal really being retired and a whole chunk of that seems like it's going to go the way of natural gas.
So are you looking beyond the 50-megawatt plants and even looking to perhaps subcontract on some of the larger ones? So the answer Tahira is really one step at a time.
For a year and half we been talking about our desire to enter that market we've gone out and really secured what we think is exceptional talent within that marketplace.
And I think we've now delivered right? So we're building a business we've built this business organically from scratch.
So we also know our limitations and we're going to manage our own risks.
So we're going to take this one step at a time these are 2 extremely important projects for both our assessment of the business our reputation our resume and this will absolutely lead to more opportunities.
We're probably more focused on peaker plants today but there's no question that we're very bullish on this business long term and what's going to happen with natural gas generation over the long term and we're going to participate as much as we can.
Research Division</strong> And José the other question is obviously a back-end loaded year and you're going to see a bit of a drag from the shale issues in the first half.
As we look at what you've learned from weather which typically does happen and does impact conditionalities in some of the shale plays in winter.
Have you burned some conservatism and cushion regarding weather in sort of the fourth quarter in particular for this year? And then I guess the second question is for EC Source.
Clearly we've had a good year last year but we haven't heard of any bookings since then and there are as you said a lot of large bookings but it seems the mid- to small-size market is now also picking up.
Is that also an opportunity for EC Source? So 2 things.
I think one we've dealt with weather throughout our entire history as a company.
Weather is not something that's foreign or new to MasTec.
We do a lot of our activities outdoors and we're subject to all different kinds of weather patterns.
And I know we talked about weather in the Marcellus but it's not that it rained in Marcellus.
We often get asked well you know what? It rained.
Well it really wasn't rain.
What happened in Marcellus was atypical.
It was the issue of having multiple feet of standing water for an extended period of time because of floods.
And that is not normal that is completely atypical and something we're not used to seeing.
We are used to the normal weather patterns where we'd have the ground freeze over or you might have rains for a period of time but not something that would deem a job un-operable which is where we were in the fourth quarter on a couple of our jobs in Marcellus.
So obviously the fourth quarter of this year is further away.
We don't know what projects we're going to necessarily be working in the Marcellus at that time.
We will absolutely take that into account as we -- you learn from obviously your experience.
So there's no question that our team has learned from that experience and try to figure out ways to protect itself better in the future.
But I think we've had a great track record of over time delivering on projects and overcoming the weather issues.
As it relates to the midsized projects in Transmission it's both an opportunity for both MasTec's Transmission business historical legacy business as well as EC Source.
We've obviously had phenomenal growth rates in our Transmission business.
We've had over 60% organic growth in both the quarter and for the year.
We expect EC Source to have considerable growth in 2012.
That's not all coming from major projects.
There are a number of mid- to small-sized projects that we continue to win.
It's an improving market it's getting healthier and we're having success in that market.
We've just taken the approach that we don't think we need to announce every project and we're going to announce the big projects but we are absolutely engaged and winning small to midsized projects across all of our Transmission businesses.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll move onto our next question from Peter Chang Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> José could you comment on how your pipeline backlog stands right now compared to last year I mean without Ruby? I just want to see what kind of visibility you guys have.
And then also talk about your bids outstanding.
And then also you talked about the interstate pipeline opportunities later in the year in 2012.
If you could talk to that and how that will be bid if it's going to be bid differently than how you bid the Ruby pipeline if it’s different if it's a fixed-price contract versus maybe cost-plus.
All right so we can start there.
We've done a lot of interstate pipeline jobs over the years both as we purchased the different pipeline assets that we bought as well as the legacy of those business that perform pipeline jobs for an extended period of time.
Obviously Ruby was a cost-plus job.
Obviously a large one that we did and we performed under MasTec.
Aside from Ruby in the first year or so that we bought Precision they did a lot of interstate pipeline jobs fixed-price.
So we have a lot of experience doing those jobs both from a fixed-price perspective and a cost-plus perspective.
There's no question that the industry moved more to fixed-price over the last couple of years and we expect it to stay there.
Other than obviously there will be a few customers that want to do cost-plus but for the most part we expect it to be up fixed-price business.
And we think we are well equipped and that the margin profile in those businesses aren't very different.
So we're not worried about our ability to compete at a risk profile.
We have to take on those jobs.
It's a market that over the last couple of years has been depressed.
There's been a smaller number of projects with obviously the same competitors so it's been a challenged market.
And really what was carrying our business and the growth of our business again which we had substantial growth in 2011 was being driven by shales.
The good news is that shales continues to be an expanding opportunity we're seeing greater levels of activities on the shales than we've ever seen before and at the same time we're going to start to see greater levels of interstate work.
Combining the 2 is going to make a healthier market for all participants and we're going to get our share of that and hopefully continue to grow the business.
As it relates to our backlog on the shales again an enormous amount of activity on the shales all geographies we've done extremely well here at the beginning of the year in building our backlog.
Our backlog is obviously down in that business because we don't have the Ruby project on a comparison basis year-over-year.
But I think that -- so basically back into our guidance numbers and what we're planning for the year we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Do you still expect flat revenues in the Pipeline business? Is that something we should be modeling in? That's what we are guiding to yes.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel from FDR.
Research Division</strong> José what is your expected cash inflow from the sale of DirectStar? Alex I don't that we've publicly given a number.
We've said that the sale is going to be somewhere -- the purchase price and it's formula driven but it's somewhere around that $100 million to $110 million range.
Research Division</strong> And is that in all cash? Mostly cash.
I think there's a small financing contingency on there for a small piece of it it's almost all cash.
Research Division</strong> And what was that EBITDA contribution from DirectStar in 2011? I know you give us the revenue in your K but what was the EBITDA contribution? I think what we've said is that it's slightly above company averages.
Research Division</strong> And what was the total commission paid to Red ventures in 2011? I don't have that number Alex.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And Bob you mentioned that DSOs would level out in 2012.
But why wouldn't they improve? Because I thought the payment terms as it relates to AT&amp;T get better under the new contract? Well I mean they are going to improve but I think they're going to improve and more likely stay in the 70s than get back into the 60s.
And I haven't totally given up on the 60s but the conservative and right thing to say on this call is we for everyone's models is better than the 79-days we closed out last year but in the 70s.
I'm not prepared at this point to forecast.
Look as I look at our mix of sort of customers and contracts and payment arrangements I think we're more likely in the 70s than the 60s.
Research Division</strong> And what's your -- José what's your revenue growth assumption for the Wireless segment in 2012? Around 10% probably a little bit south of 10% depending on the back end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And lastly any chance you could disclose revenue by segment? I know you gave the year-over-year growth dollars and what not but could you kind run through 2011 what the revenue contribution from end market was? Alex I think we give a lot of color on our script in terms of -- obviously you have the revenue contributions from AT&amp;T and DIRECTV.
The balance of our Communications business is really Wireline.
From a utility perspective we haven't done that we'll look at doing that in the future but I don't know that we're in a position to be able to do that now.
Moving on we'll take our next question from William Bremer Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Adding on to Alex's question.
How about can you sort of give us a breakdown of the backlog at this point? Again Bill we don't break out our backlog by our different groups.
It's something that we've considered and we'll consider doing in the future but not something that we've done to date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can we at least talk on the current bookings and the pricing of those bookings in the current market? First on the transmission side and maybe blend that into pipeline? Sure.
So I think from a transmission perspective what you're hearing from the industry is that there's absolutely been a pricing improvement almost across the board especially in the smaller to midsized projects.
I think that started in 2011 in a meaningful way.
So I think that a lot of the work that we're either winning or starting today is priced better than where it was historically priced.
I think we saw some of that already impact the second half of 2011.
As it comes to the larger projects there's obviously a number that have been awarded and at some point here hopefully in the very near future the demand outstrips the supply and pricing really begins to improve in a meaningful way on the larger project which we think will happen as well.
So it's a very pricing environment as it relates to that industry.
In Pipeline I think you've got much more geographic discussions because of the delay of the Keystone project.
So a lot of the Union area work that was tied to Keystone obviously was looking for ways to fill up and improve utilization.
I think that had a negative impact on pricing in those markets late in 2011 and I think since then it's really improved.
So we also see that as an improving pricing environment as we look out for the rest of 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then going to Wireless.
You called out the operational issues.
Where are you with that and what inning do you perceive that you are there and can give us a little more color on the operational issues going through 2012? Bill we said all along was we had a big ramp big growth year in 2011.
We decided to bring some work in-house retrospectively a very bad decision.
We pretty much closed that division down for the particular type of work and that happened in the fourth quarter so beginning in 2012 we've gone back to our normal operating model that we employed in 2010 relative to that work.
So I'd say the ballgame's over and we're starting a new year in '12 and the issues we had in '11 are completely behind us in that business.
Moving on we'll take our next question from John Rogers Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up.
José how much large pipeline project work are you anticipating in '12? Large diameter work? So don't necessarily understand the question John.
We do a lot of large diameter work on the shales.
So really all of our work is -- we don't really do much in the gathering system side of the business so all of our work is midstream so we're working on larger sized pipe almost exclusively.
Research Division</strong> Okay but the acquired business not Pumpco but the other one...
Precision? Research Division</strong> Is their business growing in '12? I mean beyond Ruby and...
Again so we've got multiple business as we -- our Pipeline business right? We've got the shale businesses we've got Interstate business.
Obviously all of the Ruby works sat within that acquisition it sat within the Precision acquisition.
So what we said about 2012 was we expect the year to be flat with 2011.
Obviously Precision will see a slight downtick with the other portions of our pipeline business seeing an uptick.
So will Precision make up its entire $300 million worth of Ruby work as we look from '12 to '11? That's not what we're guiding to.
They very well may do it but that's not what we're guiding to.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Liam Burke with Janie Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> José in terms of -- you've got growth in pipelines and/or the end markets pipeline transmission and wireless.
Do you anticipate any capacity issues in terms of attracting personnel or resources to get this work done? Well we're not where we were in the mid-2000s where a number of these businesses -- labor was really tight.
We're absolutely not there today.
Do we end up going there over time again? We very well may.
That's a positive in our industry the tighter the capacity gets ultimately the better the pricing is across the industry.
We're not there yet.
There's plenty of availability of manpower to execute on the work and the plans that we have for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You talked about Wireline you've got a firming housing market as a positive you've got stimulus related funds sort of as a negative in the sense that those will run their course.
How do you look at the Wireline business generally? Do you see that as a liability with the dependence on stimulus? No I think stimulus has obviously been good for that business at the right time because we we're not in a housing correction.
No question the housing markets may not be getting worse but it's not getting significantly better.
I believe that it will over time so in a couple of years from now I think that the housing market will be a lot more active than it is today.
That will be an extremely positive event for that industry in particular and I think that's going to kind of happen when stimulus starts tapering down over the next 2 years.
So I actually think that could fit in real well with the business as stimulus starts to go away housing really rebounds and helps offset some of the broadband stimulus issues.
So we're still very bullish long-term in that industry a lot of requirements.
The more data that gets consumed on wireless network the more backbone that's required to move that data.
That business isn't going anywhere and we think it's got a great future.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Adam Thalhimer BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First José you said that you feel like the environment as a whole is clearly improving.
So where are you seeing the most improvement which end markets? Across all end markets.
Last couple of years -- there's obviously been some end markets that have been doing okay in the last couple of years irrespective of the overall economy.
But today we're seeing our customers a lot more confident.
We're seeing them plan out even beyond '12 just their outlook for '13 is improving.
So I think just in general our customers outlooks on their own business is improving which will ultimately have a very positive impact on us.
We're just seeing a lot of activity across a number of our different end markets which I think is extremely positive.
Research Division</strong> And when does the Utah transmission project -- when does that complete for EC Source? Sometime in 2013.
Research Division</strong> 2013.
And I still don't have -- you've probably given us enough data to figure this out but versus your forecasts what drove the revenue upside in the quarter? In the quarter -- of the fourth quarter? Research Division</strong> Fourth quarter yes.
From where we expected to be? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think it was the strength of our Transmission business was better than we expected across all of our Transmission groups.
The strength of our Pipeline business outside of Marcellus was better than what we expected.
I think that our DIRECTV business was slightly better than where we expect it to be and our Communications business was better than where we anticipated it to be in the fourth quarter.
Almost an across-the-board improvement with the exception of kind of Marcellus and Wireless was where we thought it was.
And even though we had a tough quarter in renewables it still probably did a little bit better than what we had expected when he originally gave guidance.
Research Division</strong> And the AT&amp;T contract the new 3-year contract that started in '12.
Seemed like when that first hit there's a lot of uncertainty about primary secondary contract or I think they did some changes to the pricing in the contract.
And now that you're 2 months into it do you feel like we have a better sense for how some of those things are going to shake out? I think we we maybe not at the investment community at large but I think we always had a good sense of how that would shape up.
And I think it's going to shape up as we expected.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly for me.
Just going forward how do you think about use of cash buy backs versus maybe paying down some debt? Well it's a good question.
We really don't have many sources of debt to pay off in the short-term.
The majority of our debt is tied into long-term notes and our converts.
The earliest maturity is on our converts in 2014.
Those are obviously instruments to trade in the open market.
We don't think it's worth buying those back so there's really -- we really don't have many opportunities for debt repayment.
When you look at our line -- we obviously have a $600 million credit line that Bob spoke about in a lot of detail.
When you look at where we were on that credit line at the end of the third quarter we repurchased $75 million worth of shares and if you would -- if you kind of look at it today where we're at we think that a lot of that $75 million is going to be made back up through cash generation of the business between the fourth quarter and Q1.
We've got the sale of DirectStar which is going to infuse a lot of cash into the business so we expect to be another healthy cash position outside of our structured debt in the second quarter and have full access to our line which means we're in a really good spot.
And we've got a lot of availability of cash to do anything that we need to do for the business in our opinion.
So we still feel that the value of our stock isn't where we think it'll ultimately be.
So we'll still be active in the market supporting our stock at certain levels.
Today the M&amp;A market is surprisingly strong and improving.
So there are a number of opportunities that we're intrigued by and following up with.
And I think that with where we're at with where our cash position will be over the first half of the year and where we're at from a line of credit perspective we've got a lot of opportunities to do just about anything we think is right for the business.
Moving on we'll take our next question from William Bremer Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> José just a follow-up.
Two things.
Number one can you comment on inspection? There seems to be a lot of regulatory environment and whether or not your pipeline services will possibly go into any more inspection-type services.
And second can you comment on the Sandhills pipeline it looks like as though that Pumpco received some type of award here it's a 720-mile line.
Can you give us some color of the magnitude of that contract? So a couple of things on the inspection side of the business inspection is not a big part of our business or the overall business.
Obviously inspection leads to finding issues in the pipe that they need to be replaced.
So that remedial work we believe is going to be a huge opportunity in the industry because publishers commissions and utilities all across the country are going to have to deal with it.
We think it's a growing market.
We think it's a fairly new market that will grow substantially over time.
We do participate in that market today for certain customers where we're actively fixing lines and we think that'll be a growing part of our pipeline business overtime and one that we're looking to continue to invest in.
So it's absolutely on our radar screen it's something that we think has great opportunities in both organically and even acquisitively.
We'll look at that market expand in.
From an individual project perspective again we don't like to talk about individual projects.
So I think we gave some clarity on our backlog and feel-good where we are from our pipeline business and really don't want to specifically talk about any particular project.
And at this time that will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Once again I'd like  thank everybody for participating on today's call.
We look forward to updating everybody on our first quarter call.
So thank you and have a great day.
Thank you that will conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on May 4 2012.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thanks Elisa.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based upon subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's call we may discuss certain adjusted financial metrics or use non-GAAP financial measures in our analyses.
A reconciliation of any and all adjusted financial metrics or non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release our SEC filings or on the Investor Relations section of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last for about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of great things to talk about today so I'd now like to turn the call over to Jose.
Jose? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2012 First Quarter Call.
Today I will be reviewing our first quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some first quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $778 million a 26% increase over the prior year's first quarter.
Net income was $14.2 million.
EBITDA was $53 million and EBITDA margin was 6.9%.
Earnings per share was $0.17 and cash flow from operations was $43 million.
In summary we had a strong start to the year.
We performed better than expected and enjoyed broad-based revenue growth.
Revenue was up $160 million compared to last year's first quarter despite having had the benefit of a $122 million of revenue associated with the Ruby pipeline in last year's first quarter.
As expected margins were negatively impacted by our work associated with a couple of pipeline jobs and a slower start on our wireless projects.
As we look at the balance of 2012 our backlog is strong and we have excellent visibility into future revenues.
We expect utilization to increase and margins to improve as the year progresses.
We are focused on improving margins especially as we complete our challenging projects in the Marcellus region and as wireless spending begins to aggressively ramp up.
Today more than ever I believe MasTec's diversified business model is our key differentiator and one that has helped drive our success.
Today we serve numerous markets and industries that we believe have solid long-term fundamentals with significant opportunities for expansion and growth.
We strongly believe that our exposure to petroleum and natural gas pipelines and facilities high-voltage electrical transmission wireless infrastructure construction and construction of power generation sources should continue to be excellent sources of growth and opportunity for MasTec for years to come.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue was $374 million an increase of 8% over last year's first quarter.
Our install-to-the-home business was up 24% for the first quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
The increase was driven by both organic growth and our acquisition of Halsted last year.
The integration of the Halsted acquisition is now complete and there has been a dramatic improvement in both the financial and operational performance of the business.
Wireless revenue was up 14% for the quarter.
This now marks the fifth consecutive double-digit growth for this market.
The growth is being driven by the expansion of broadband and Internet in rural markets.
Our wireless business as expected was down 14% in the first quarter of 2012 versus 2011 as we got off to a slower start with our largest customer in 2012.
With that said we now have excellent visibility into our full year plan and we continue to pursue a number of opportunities to expand and diversify our customer base in our wireless business.
We believe that this market will afford us strong long-term growth prospects as data continues to play a larger role in wireless devices and as 4G continues to be rolled out throughout the world.
Our utility revenue was up 49% for the first quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
The growth was driven by our transmission and renewable work.
Revenues in our transmission business more than tripled in the first quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
The increase was driven by the acquisition of EC Source and strong organic growth.
Bidding activity for transmission projects remained strong and we are optimistic about our ability to grow in this market.
Moving to Renewables.
Revenues for the quarter more than doubled those of last year.
While 2011 was a tough year for us in Renewables 2012 is shaping up to be a great year.
Our bookings in the wind market are at record levels and we expect to construct and deliver over 1 500 megawatts in 2012.
With the expiration of the 1603 grants at the end of 2011 this year is expected to be one of the best years the industry has seen.
As we look forward beyond 2012 we are encouraged by the level of activity associated with extensions for wind-related tax credits and are optimistic that a legislative agreement will be reached.
In any case we are taking a more macro view of our renewable business and expanding our power-generation capabilities.
We are focused in participating in the construction of power-generating assets whether they are wind solar or thermal related.
The solar market will be an area of solid growth for us this year as we were awarded a number of projects in late 2011 and early 2012.
The solar market enjoys tax credits that extend through 2016 and we expect this to be -- this market to be an increasing part of our business.
Over the last year we have also spoken about our desire and investment in growing our power thermal business.
On our last call we announced that we had been awarded the construction of 2 natural gas peaker plants.
These are important projects in the evolution of our power business and hopefully the first of many.
Based on our currently contracted work in this business we expect 2012 to be a great year and revenues to more than double those of 2011.
Shifting to our pipeline business.
Revenues were up 7% in the first quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
I'd like to note that in the first quarter of 2011 the Ruby pipeline represented about $122 million of revenue so this quarter represented a tough comp for us.
The industry also had challenges in late fourth quarter and early first quarter in absorbing the excess labor associated with the delay in the Keystone XL project.
This situation however has subsequently improved.
Bidding activity has been extremely active and we've had a lot of success both during the quarter and since the end of the quarter.
We have now been awarded over 900 miles of pipeline construction since the beginning of the year and our backlog and visibility is excellent.
I would now like to comment on guidance for 2012.
We expect second quarter revenues of $900 million.
This compares to $751 million in last year's second quarter or 20% year-over-year growth.
We expect $80 million of EBITDA net income of $30.1 million and $0.35 of EPS.
Bob will cover margins later.
For the year we are increasing our revenue guidance to $3 350 000 000 and keeping our EBITDA guidance of $325 million and net income guidance at $122 million.
As we've previously discussed we have a goal of achieving double-digit margins this year.
While we’ll strive to hit it we are experiencing significant growth in our renewable business but the EBITDA margins on the Renewable projects is in the high-single digits and is slightly dragging down company margins.
To recap we're off to a good start.
We've got strong backlog to support what we believe will be another record year of revenues and earnings.
We expect strong cash generation in 2012 and I firmly believe that we have never been in a better position to take advantage of the opportunities our different markets are affording us.
I expect to have a great year.
Before I finish I'd also like to highlight that next Friday night on May 11 MasTec will be featured on the CBS show Undercover Boss.
I think it will be a great opportunity to learn more about the company and get a better appreciation for what we do.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover our first quarter financial results second quarter guidance and 2012 full year guidance.
And I'll also cover cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
Before I get into details let me give you a quick overview.
Revenue increased 26% over last year led by growth in electrical transmission and renewables in industrial construction.
Q1 earnings net income of $14 million EBITDA of $53 million and $0.17 per diluted share were at the upper end of our guidance.
Cash flow from operations was solid at $43 million.
Our liquidity at quarter end was $497 million compared to $269 million a year ago.
We calculate liquidity as unrestricted cash plus availability from our bank credit facility.
But Q1 earnings were down versus last year primarily due to a tough comp from last year's Q1 when the Ruby pipeline project was going full bore versus low utilization in pipeline and wireless this quarter.
We are increasing full year 2012 revenue guidance to $3 350 000 000 and reaffirming guidance of $122 million of net income $325 million in full year EBITDA and $1.42 of fully diluted earnings per share.
Now let me get into the details of our results.
Q1 revenue was $778 million up 26% versus last year.
The growth was led by our electrical transmission work which was up 212% or more than triple last year.
The increase came primarily from EC Source the big project-oriented transmission acquisition that we made last year in the second quarter and we also had solid growth in our legacy transmission business.
Renewables and industrial construction work was up 168% driven by very strong revenue in wind and a rapidly growing solar business.
Construction of the 2 natural gas power plant projects that we have been awarded does not start until this summer and that work will be done by our renewables and industrial construction team.
Our install-to-the-home business which is primarily DIRECTV was up 24%.
The majority of the growth came from the new territory in the northeast that we acquired last July in the Halsted acquisition.
However our organic growth for our existing DIRECTV installation and service business was 13%.
Wireline was up 14% primarily due to ongoing broadband stimulus work.
Wireless was down 14% year-over-year in Q1 mostly as a result of delays in getting and starting our largest customer’s 2012 build plan.
Pipeline in total in Q1 was up 7% year-over-year but the growth came from our Fabcor acquisition in Canada.
The rest of our pipeline business was down solidly versus a big Q1 last year with the Ruby pipeline project.
Regarding Q1 earnings comparisons the drop in earnings year-over-year was mostly reflected in cost of revenue which was 240 basis points worse than last year and somewhat higher depreciation and amortization which was 30 basis points worse than last year.
Note that the cost of revenue excludes depreciation and amortization.
G&amp;A expense and interest expense as a percent of revenue both improved slightly.
The cost of revenue increase was primarily in pipeline and wireless.
Pipeline was generally underutilized in Q1 with lower revenue in our legacy pipeline businesses and we had the tough Ruby comps from last year and we also had some 0 margin work on a couple of Marcellus jobs where we had wet terrain problems last year.
We booked losses on the 2 Marcellus wet terrain jobs last year and we are now booking only revenue on those jobs as we continue to work on them but we are not booking any margin dollars on them.
These jobs should be substantially completed by the end of the second quarter.
In Wireless January and February were light in revenue but then March was solid as we started ramping up for the year.
We now have our AT&amp;T build plan for the year and expect solid growth from wireless on a full year basis.
However our Q1 AT&amp;T revenue was down 14% year-over-year which did result in underutilization and margin challenges for the quarter.
For your information regarding pipeline and wireless our outlook is unchanged from when we gave our initial 2012 earnings guidance.
We expected a soft Q1 in those 2 markets but we expected and continue to expect good full year revenue and earnings performance from each.
I'll talk further about guidance a little later.
Q1 EBITDA was $53 million compared to $58 million last year.
Q1 net income was $14 million compared to $21 million last year.
Q1 fully diluted earnings per share was $0.17.
Q1 EBITDA margin was 6.9% for the quarter which was well below last year's 9.3%.
EBITDA margin was hurt by the pipeline and wireless margin issues that I mentioned in my cost of revenue comments.
And the year-over-year comparison was compounded by the tough margin comps from the Ruby pipeline project which was going full bore a year ago.
I'll provide an EBITDA margin bridge to 2012 a little later.
For the first quarter of 2012 the 10 largest customers were: DIRECTV was 23% of total revenue and up 24% over last year.
AT&amp;T was 18% of total revenue and down 14% from last year.
Duke Energy was 7% of total revenue.
They're a wind farm customer.
MidAmerican energy was 5%.
Included in that number is our big electrical transmission project in Utah handled by EC Source and wind farm work handled by Wanzek Construction.
Dominion Virginia Power and Talisman were both 4% of revenue.
Both are shale pipeline customers.
EQT was 3%.
That's another shale pipeline customer.
And finally TexStar Midstream Penn West Petroleum and Spectra Energy were at 2% of revenue.
TexStar and Penn West are both shale pipeline customers and Spectra is a natural gas facilities customers.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q1 include: 1 telecom customer 1 satellite television customer 6 oil and gas customers 1 wind farm customer and 1 electrical transmission and also wind farm customer.
Our revenue mix is split between onetime non-recurring construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenue.
For Q1 54% of our revenue came from master service agreements or similar contracts and 46% came from onetime non-recurring construction projects.
What we call master service agreements and similar contracts are briefly as follows.
Generally these contracts are for multiple years often 3 to 5 years and generally they are exclusive for a certain geography or territory.
Most of these contracts have some kind of price escalation language or some other price adjustment mechanism.
Although these contracts do not contain revenue guarantees and they do allow cancellation under certain circumstances in reality the revenue from these contracts is pretty predictable.
These contracts generally go full term and are not canceled and our renewal rate is extremely high.
I just wanted to highlight that even though we -- our onetime non-recurring project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from these master service agreements and similar contracts.
At quarter end our backlog was $3.3 billion.
As always I'm giving you an 18-month backlog number.
The comparable number at year-end 2010 was $2.4 billion and $3.3 billion at the end of 2011.
Our backlog includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from master service agreements and other similar contracts.
The large pipeline awards that Jose talked about were not signed as of March 31 so they are not included in our Q1 backlog number.
Now let me talk about cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
As I mentioned in Q1 we had $43 million of cash flow from operations.
As a result we were able to reduce our bank revolver usage from $60 million at year end to $31 million at the end of Q1.
We have made progress on project closeouts and billing with AT&amp;T wireless and we expect to make additional progress over the rest of the year.
Q2 cash flow will reflect some of our normal seasonal ramp-up in accounts receivable as revenue builds.
On the other hand we currently expect a second quarter sale of DirectStar our DIRECTV retail sales business with after-tax cash proceeds of $90-some million.
Full year DirectStar revenue in 2011 was $148 million.
Our accounts receivable day sales outstanding or DSOs went up dramatically in 2011 due to issues in our wireless business and also in project mix but we're beginning to see DSO levels subside.
We closed 2011 at a too high 79 days and that includes our unbilled revenue.
Our accounts receivable DSO at quarter end was 78 days and we currently expect further improvement during the year.
Regarding capital spending we spent $14 million for Q1 compared to $15 million in Q1 last year.
Our current forecast for 2012 CapEx is $65 million down slightly from 2011.
Now let me talk for a moment about our capital structure.
As a quick capital structure summary at quarter end we had $829 million in equity $461 million of total debt only $441 million in net debt that's net of cash and we expect to have $325 million of 2012 EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios are in very good shape.
In recognition of improved earnings capital structure and business outlook we recently earned a one-notch corporate credit rating upgrade to BB from Standard &amp; Poor's.
I'd like to note 3 things about our capital structure.
First we have no significant debt maturities until '14 '16 and '17.
And second all of our debt has attractive interest rates and terms.
And third we have a tremendous availability from our new $600 million mostly unused bank credit facility.
Availability from our new bank credit facility at quarter end was $477 million.
We are increasing our 2012 full year revenue guidance to $3 350 000 000.
Full year 2012 net income guidance of $122 million and EBITDA guidance of $325 million remains unchanged.
And also unchanged is our fully diluted full year EPS guidance of $1.42.
The 2012 revenue projection represents an 11% increase over $3 billion for 2011.
And the guidance revenue increase includes the negative impact of the likely second quarter sale of DirectStar.
DirectStar had a $148 million in revenue last year.
Our 2012 EBITDA projection of $325 million is a 25% increase over adjusted EBITDA of $261 million last year.
The 2012 EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 9.7% which compares to 8.7% last year.
And I'll discuss margins in more detail in a minute.
And EPS of $1.42 is a 33% increase over $1.07 of adjusted EPS last year.
In making earnings comparisons to 2011 results we have adjusted on a pro forma basis the result of 2 material items that we discussed on the year-end earnings call.
First we have backed out the second quarter $29 million pretax remeasurement gain related to our purchase of 100% of EC Source our big project electrical transmission company.
And second we have backed out the fourth quarter $6 million pretax expense for the withdrawal liability related to our leaving the underfunded Teamsters Central States Pension Plan.
The net impact of these 2 pro forma adjustments is a $0.16 per diluted share negative impact on 2011 full year results.
The full details of these 2 pro forma adjustments to 2011 financial results are included in yesterday's press release and also in our SEC filings.
Our 2012 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39.8% and cash taxes of about 90% of booked taxes.
Acquisition amortization expense is estimated at about $12 million for 2012 down from $14 million last year.
Our estimate for full year share count for fully diluted EPS is about 86 million shares.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
There is information about share count for EPS purposes in Footnote 2 in our 10-Q.
My final comment about our 2012 full year guidance is about margins.
The EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 9.7% a 100-point basis point improvement over the 2011 adjusted EBITDA.
Now let me bridge from the 8.7% adjusted EBITDA margin in 2011 to the 9.7% expected in 2012.
I talked about certain items on last quarter's call but they are worth repeating.
I want to reiterate the 5 major reasons that give us comfort that we can improve to 9.7% margins in 2012.
First we believe that the wireless productivity and margin issues in the third and fourth quarters of '11 were mostly contained and corrected in 2011.
Second the pipeline Marcellus shale wet terrain profit issues on several projects were mostly dealt with financially last year although there will be some margin drag during the first half of this year.
Third the Halsted DIRECTV acquisition that we made in 2011 was a fixer-upper that contributed modest margin in 2011.
However we are making good progress improving that business.
In fact we are well ahead of schedule there.
Instead of roughly $60 million in revenue with modest margin in 2011 we should have a full year of about $110 million in revenue at better margins.
Fourth our renewables business is expected to more than double in 2012 and the majority of the incremental gross profit should flow through to the bottom line.
And finally we expect that our electrical transmission revenue will grow this year with good margins.
Now let me give you our Q2 guidance numbers.
We currently project Q2 revenue of $90 million compared to $751 million last year.
That's an increase of 20%.
We currently project Q2 EBITDA of $80 million compared to $71 million of adjusted EBITDA last year.
We currently project Q2 net income of $30 million compared to $27 million of adjusted net income last year.
And we currently expect Q2 fully diluted EPS of $0.35 compared to adjusted EPS of $0.31 last year.
The adjusted $0.31 per share for Q2 last year is without the $0.20 per share gain related to our acquisition of the 67% of EC Source that we did not already own.
2012 is shaping up as a more normal year regarding seasonality.
We normally have a soft Q1 in that our earnings start to build in Q2 and that's how we see 2012.
Last year's Q1 was a little bit of an aberration with strong Ruby pipeline profitability.
In summary we currently expect 2012 to be a good year for MasTec with record revenue net income EBITDA and EPS.
And we also expect improved margins and cash flow.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] I'll go first to Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jose you sound more confident about your pipeline business.
Obviously you’ve talked about more awards after the quarter ended but what are you seeing in that business? And you've talked about sort of flatfish for the year versus last year.
Could there be upside to that? Are you still feeling confident about flattish? Maybe talk a little more about your pipeline business.
Well last year the first half of the year really had a lot of Ruby pipeline build into it so it was a significant part of our first 6-month revenue stream in our pipeline business.
So we went into 2012 somewhat cautious because obviously that was a big shoes to fill.
We knew we had some of the Marcellus work a couple of projects that were dragging into the first 6 months of the year where we knew we were going to have some margin hit on that.
And to be honest I think the first 4 or 5 months have been a lot better than what we expected from a project-award perspective.
The industry has been very active.
Second half of last year the Keystone project gets delayed which obviously created a lot of issues within the industry as people were trying to reallocate resources and that had impacts in the competitiveness and pricing of the business but a lot of that subsided.
There's a lot of work out there.
We think pricing is good.
And we've probably done a little bit in -- a little bit better than we would have expected at this time and to the extent that we can keep winning and there's more projects out there then -- and then we'll get more and more bullish as the year goes on.
Research Division</strong> Jose are these in shale basins? Or are they outside of the shale basins? Both.
I mean most of our work is still in the shale basins.
It's predominantly what we're doing today although there are some projects that are now outside of the shale basins that we've been awarded.
So it's a combination.
It's a lot of -- some oil a lot of gas some liquids so it's a nice diversity of both the type of pipelines we're building and the geographies where we're building them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just shift gears to wireless.
The confidence around the plan for this year how much does it have to do with diversification? I mean how much work can you get outside of AT&amp;T? Or is that sort of focused on '13 and '14 to go outside of AT&amp;T? I think we're focused on it every day.
I think we've made a lot of inroads and have been able to grow a little bit outside of AT&amp;T.
The problem and the challenge that we've had over the course of the last 2 years is AT&amp;T's continued to grow at a very rapid rate.
And it's really taking a lot of our resources a lot of our time and effort in terms of meeting their demands and meeting their build plans and doing a great job for them.
And we've talked about the issues that we had last year and just meeting what we thought was a very accelerated plan.
We did it.
We're in a great position with them.
When we talk about our wireless business for 2012 again we're very confident because we know what we have in hand.
And we're not making a lot of assumptions for additional work that we're going to have to win to hit the kind of numbers that we're talking about.
With that said we're still trying to do that and we're still trying to grow our customers.
There's a lot of work out there.
There's new customers coming on line.
There's new opportunities.
And I think we're really well positioned for it but we're just not counting on it.
We'll go next to Alex Rygiel from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Jose how many miles of pipeline did you build in 2011? And what is the corresponding revenue associated with the 900 miles that you have been awarded year to date? So last year we probably built less mileage because Ruby was -- while it was a large project and from a dollar perspective it was a very big project the reality is that it was a very expensive project on a cost-per-mile basis because of the type of project that it was.
So we're going to have to build more miles this year to hit the kind of numbers that we expect to hit in our pipeline business.
We’ve talked last year about it being roughly a $750 million to $800 million business.
We’ve said we expect the business to be flattish.
We're probably pretty much there with the backlog that we have in place so to the extent that we continue to win more work that number should increase.
And I think that's how you should be thinking about the 900 miles.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then...
By the way all 900 -- let me just clarify.
All 900 are not solely for 2012.
Some of that does roll into 2013.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And to follow up on earlier wireless question.
It appears that your revenue from international operations was about $63 million in the first quarter.
That compares to only $2 million last year Fabcor accounting for a good portion of it.
But there's a pretty significant portion incoming from other activities that I suspect are organic in nature.
Can you explain those? Sure.
We've talked about the last 1.5 years or so our interest in looking at opportunities that are presented to us.
We started a very small operation in Panama that's been building.
We're doing a couple of different types of our work functions there.
There's a lot of opportunity there a lot of growth happening there.
We talked about the growth of our wireless business in Mexico and really the other opportunities that exist there with renewables and transmission and pipelines.
So we're -- we still consider ourselves to be a domestic-based company for the most part but there are some really nice international opportunities where we can take our expertise.
When you look at wireless I think that the U.S.
is viewed as a leader in 4G where we weren't necessarily viewed as a world leader in 3G and I think that's going to open up opportunities for companies like MasTec to help other carriers around the world expand and install their 4G systems.
And that's an opportunity we can't lose sight of because it's going to be a huge program across the world not just in the U.S.
and we're focused on it.
And currently we're focused on it in Mexico.
So I think that that will grow -- continue to grow as the year goes on.
We've got some good relationships down there.
There's obviously some very large international carriers that are bigger than the U.S.
carriers.
So the scale of work available to us is very large and we expect to get a portion of it.
We'll go next to Peter Chang from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the guidance.
Given the $100 million increase in the sales guide why no corresponding increase in EBITDA or net income? And did the good weather in the first quarter help you finish more of that pipeline work that was coming at 0 margin? Is that why revenues came in at such a high amount? So I'll start with the latter question first.
No it didn't.
We still started the pipelines when we expected to start them.
There was still actually a lot of rain in the Marcellus area.
So while weather was generally good across the country from a snow and a cold perspective there were still -- it wasn't that -- again we were expecting the Marcellus area to freeze over.
It really didn't.
And with the rain and water we just kind of stuck to the plan that we had laid out late last year.
So about half of the work that we had associated with that was done in Q1 and the other half will be done in Q2.
When we look at the full year plan and we look at the $100 million of revenue a couple of things I think a the renewable business is probably going to grow at a little bit faster than we expected.
And that business while it’s a good business there's less risk there's a little bit more material that flows through that business so that business tends to be slightly lower on EBITDA margins than some of our other businesses from a potential perspective.
So I think we're being cautious as we look at the balance of the year where the revenues are coming from.
We've got north of $100 million of revenues that are coming from the Marcellus projects at margins less than what we had anticipated and expected that we've been talking about for the last 6 months so that's kind of built in there as well.
And at the end of the year we had a big increase planned for 2012.
And as I said in my remarks our intent is to -- we're striving for it.
We hope to hit it this year but we're just -- we're being cautious and don't feel we need to put that in guidance today.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is really in regards to Jose what you talked about in your prepared commentary on the power generation side.
Some of your larger bearers have probably become incrementally a little positive I think going to next year on the natural gas side.
Clearly you've started to build your presence there with the peaker award.
So I guess as you look into the line of your prospects for this year and into next year do you feel that’s sufficient to replace wind if wind credits are not extended? And of course that's hypothetical but we'd love to hear your qualitative commentary around the power side.
So the answer is yes.
It's not an easy answer and it's not an answer that happens overnight.
So this isn't that we woke up last week saw natural gas prices where they were at and said "This seems like a great business to be in." We've been really -- working really hard over the last 1.5 years to build the presence in that market to position ourselves for what we think is going to be a very aggressive cycle of new natural gas-fired generation.
So it's not that -- this has been something we've been working on for a long time.
We spent a lot of money over the last few years in terms of hiring the right people and positioning ourselves.
I think it culminated with our first awards specifically related to that which is really important.
But we've looked at our renewable business and we've said "Okay.
The renewables are going to be somewhat cyclical.
It's going to be somewhat dependent on legislation and tax policy." So how do we position our business the best way possible to take advantage of the growth in the overall industry? And the way we've done is we’ve said "Okay we're just not a wind contractor.
We're not just a solar contractor.
But we're going to be a contractor for generation sources of power." And we're going to need to be nimble.
We're going to be able -- need to be able to move fast and participate in any area where we think there's going to be enhanced activity.
It happens to be that wind is having a great year because of tax policy.
And I think that there's no question in my mind that wind will fall off somewhat in 2013.
To what level I don't think anybody knows because I do believe there will be an extension of the PTC tax credits at some point.
And there will be wind in 2013 albeit we don't know the amount.
So we've got to build our '13 business.
And we've got to take into account where we think solar is going to be a huge growth market for us in '13.
We think power generation is going to be a big market for us in '13 and obviously what we're striving and our goal is to have a business that irrespective of what happens with wind as we look at our power generation business in '13 it can have growth over 2012.
And that's what we're driving to do.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My follow-up question is on the electric transmission side.
Clearly you saw a marked improvement in the first quarter.
So did your bearers.
Could you talk a bit about EC Source and how over the last year they have built capacity on equipment and labor side to really take advantage of this market as it heats up? I think we've done everything as planned.
So everything we expected to do with the business we’re right on track.
We continue to build our equipment assets and our resources.
We're participating in discussions on a lot of different projects so we're excited about our competitive position in the landscape.
And again we think it's going to be a big growth market for us.
We'll go next to William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to go to into the 900 miles a little bit more.
Can you give us sort of a breakdown of gas versus liquids there? And then maybe break it down a little further versus say long haul versus shale work.
Again I'd say it's predominantly shale.
There's a portion that's long haul but it's predominantly shale.
And I'd say it's probably close to -- from a mileage perspective 60-40 gas to liquids.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then can you give us an idea of the pricing of what you're currently seeing right now and as well as your capacity at this point given the 900 miles? I think pricing was an issue late last year.
Again when the Keystone project got delayed I think it made a lot of resources available and there was a lot of competition for the projects that were out at that time which is one of the reasons that -- the flip side of it was there was a lot of work so there's been a lot of available work for people to put those resources to work.
I think a lot of that's gotten through.
I think in general the industry is a lot busier right now than it's been in a long time.
And I think that that will -- I think it's already translated into pricing and will continue to translate into pricing.
And there's a lot of work out there so it's -- we've been saying it for a long time: It's a very healthy market.
It's a market that we think is going to get healthier.
When we look at out at what's coming for the balance of this year and '13 and '14 it's looks like it's going to get even healthier.
So we love the position that we're in.
We love the competitive landscape as it sits and we think we're going to do very well.
We're busy.
We can always do more but we're busy.
We've got a lot of our assets tied up and we look forward to continuing to grow that business.
Research Division</strong> And my last one can you just give us an update on the stock buyback plan at this time? We talked about it at the end of last year.
We did the first $75 million tranche.
Since then we have not done a -- we were approved -- our board approved a second tranche of $75 million which we haven't used.
Again just in retrospect we've been in a dark period here for a while as the quarter ended and the year ended and the quarter ended and we hadn't released results.
So we really didn't have a lot of trading days available to us in the first quarter.
We'll go next to Liam Burke from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
Research Division</strong> Outside of your wireless in the telecom space how does that business look for the balance of 2012? It looks good.
In the prepared remarks we talked about that business growing double digits for 5 consecutive quarters.
I expect that trend to continue.
There's a lot of work associated with not only the rural spend and that's been very active but we're big believers in fiber to cell sites and we think that there's just going to be more and more fiber installed to cell sites based on the traffic that exists.
So we think it's a healthy business.
As stimulus begins to roll off we're hoping that new housing recovers which is probably I think the biggest upside opportunity in that business in the next few years.
I think it had a huge negative impact on that business in the late -- in the '08 '09 timeframe when the housing market was really deteriorating.
It has not come back and when it does it's going to have a big impact on that business which will hopefully offset any slowdown that the stimulus might have as it rolls off in the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- you've talked a lot about transmission.
Is your distribution business hanging in there? Or is it still choppy with the housing? For us it's stabilized back 1.5 years ago or so.
And it's been stable.
I wouldn't say that it’s really been growing at any big clips or it hasn't been deteriorating.
So it's been a stable business and again I think it's a business that will dramatically improve as housing improves.
We'll go next to Theodore O'Neil from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the detailed explanation on the margins in the quarter talking about underutilization at the AT&amp;T side and the pipeline side and the 0-margin work on the Marcellus.
And following up on that I was wondering if you could just talk about the dynamics of why the renewable business would have single-digit margins and those margins would be lower than the corporate average.
Well I think some it has to do with materials.
It depends on the job.
There's a lot of different ways in which you can build a wind farm.
And there’s wind farms in which you've got a lot more material procurement than others.
And in those where you have more material procurement you obviously have more revenue but you have lower margins because some of it's just pure pass-through.
And I think that impacts that business in a greater way than the rest of our businesses which slightly impacts margins.
Research Division</strong> And you're talking about concrete essentially there? Well a lot of the substation work.
A lot of the equipment that goes into substation work a lot of the electrical cables they tend to allow you -- and again it depends on the customer and the project but you tend to buy more materials on those projects than you typically would on others.
We'll go next to Noelle Dilts from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all I just wanted to dig into the wireless business a little bit more.
And you said that your expectations for the year were relatively unchanged so I think before you've talked about 10% growth.
Is that still what you're expecting? And then can you talk a little bit about your expectations for profitability for the year? Do you think you’ll get back to a double-digit EBITDA margin in 2012? So a couple of things on full year margins obviously if you take in -- we obviously completed the first quarter.
We've given guidance for Q2 and you've got full year guidance so can see what happens to the margins in the back end of the year.
So we are expecting to achieve double-digit margins for sure in the back end of the year and the question for us is can we achieve it for the full year.
And again it's something that we're going to strive for.
It's something that we hope to accomplish but one that we're not necessarily ready to sign up for today.
As it relates to wireless again it's a business where we've always felt that we have very good visibility into the future work.
We have very good visibility into the first quarter.
We knew it was going to be somewhat slow based on everything that happened with the AT&amp;T and T-Mobile acquisition late last year.
So we feel good about what we’ve projected for the year and where we expect to be.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're starting to see kind of an acceleration of wireless awards and work releases at this point? Or you're kind of expecting that to ramp up if you...
We had a big ramp during the first quarter so the end of the first quarter was dramatically better than the beginning of first quarter for us in that business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then some of the issues you had with in-sourcing some of the businesses that were previously outsourced you said you think you’ve mostly isolated that as of the end of last year.
So I just wanted to make sure most of these -- the possibility issues maybe in wireless in the first quarter were primarily related just to lower volumes.
Is that fair? That's correct.
So we -- all of our internal issues were corrected and behind us in 2011.
And the margin issues in 2012 have nothing to do with that but rather obviously just the fact that you have lower revenues and some utilization issues.
But we expect that to -- as the quarter went on that got better and we expect that to continue.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the pipeline business.
In this quarter can you just talk about activity levels and kind of each of your major shale fields? And then can you just quantify the amount of 0-margin work that you were doing related to those 2 big projects in the first quarter? I mean it sounds like you're expecting a relatively similar amount in the second quarter.
So all of our shales are extremely active.
There is no shale that I would say -- I wouldn't actually try to differentiate them.
There's a lot of activity on all shales and so very very robust market across the board.
When we look at Q1 and Q2 we'll have just over $100 million in challenge projects that we're carrying into 2012 from the Marcellus projects that we've talked about and it's slightly equal in Q1 and Q2 the amount of revenue that's going get generated on those projects.
We'll go next to Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jose how do we think about the transmission business after Utah? When did Utah finish up? And how do you plan to manage that transition to the next project? So a our business is not a Utah business right? We've got a lot of transmission work with a lot of customers across a lot of different geographies and I think we've demonstrated our ability to grow not only the EC Source business but the business -- our organic and legacy businesses.
There are number of projects that we've been working on for a long time and we've been pretty vocal about our desire not to want to get into specific conversations on specific projects but we feel very good about where we are positioned in that industry and what will it be accomplished there.
Research Division</strong> When does Utah finish up? I think our contract goes through mid-2013.
Research Division</strong> And then can you just update us -- the generator contract from AT&amp;T how you see revenue flowing from that over the next couple of years? We've talked about it being a project that's been somewhat delayed.
I wouldn't say it's the highest priority that AT&amp;T has.
AT&amp;T has a lot of priorities that they need to focus on.
They've got a lot of issues this year again a lot of them related to T-Mobile and what happened there and what's happening with CapEx related to the breakup fee.
So we've talked about the generator project being something that we hope we see more activity for in Q4 and going into '13.
But I'd say we don't have great visibility into that today.
This does conclude our question-and-answer portion.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Jose Mas for any closing comments.
Again I'd like to thank everybody for participating and we look forward to updating you on our next call.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
We do appreciate your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on August 3 2012.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thank you Elisha.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's call we may discuss certain adjusted financial metrics or use non-GAAP financial measures in our analyses.
A reconciliation of any adjusted financial metrics or non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release SEC filings or on the Investor Relations section of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
The discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of great things to talk about today.
So I'd like to now turn the call over to Jose.
Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2012 Second Quarter Call.
Today I will be reviewing our second quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
Before we get started I'd like to point out that during the second quarter we finalized the sale of DirectStar our DIRECTV retail sales business.
DirectStar's results have now been classified as discontinued operations and its revenues has been eliminated from our financial statements.
Thus my comments as they relate to revenue exclude revenues generated by DirectStar in both 2011 and 2012.
Now some first quarter -- some second quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $992 million a 38% increase over the prior year's second quarter.
EBITDA was $81 million an increase of 14% over last year.
Earnings per share was $0.37 an increase of 19% over last year's adjusted earnings per share and organic revenue growth was 32%.
In summary we had another good quarter.
Performance was very strong across all of our businesses with the exception of the 2 challenging Marcellus projects which we previously discussed.
We are near completion on both of those projects and expect to be fully complete early in the third quarter.
However the effort to complete those projects has been more difficult and costly than we expected.
During the second quarter we recorded a provision for losses of over $25 million related to these 2 projects.
The projects have been a drain on both profits and resources and we look forward to getting them behind us.
Aside from those 2 projects performance and execution throughout our business including the rest of our pipeline business has been excellent and ahead of our expectations.
I'll discuss that in more detail in a minute.
Again revenues for the quarter were up $275 million or 38% year-over-year and up approximately $250 million or 33% sequentially from the first quarter.
We are now expecting 2012 full year revenue growth of between 24% to 26% and this comes off of 32% growth between 2010 and 2011.
We continue to enjoy strong demand for our services resulting in strong revenue growth.
We also saw broad-based margin improvements with the exception of the 2 Marcellus projects I spoke about.
Margins and margin improvement is our key area of focus and we expect improvements in the second half of this year.
I believe MasTec's diversified business model is our key differentiator and one that has helped drive our success.
Today we serve numerous markets and industries that we feel have solid long-term fundamentals with significant opportunities for expansion and growth.
We strongly believe that our exposure to petroleum and natural gas pipelines and facilities high-voltage electrical transmission wireless infrastructure construction and the construction of power generation sources should continue to be excellent sources of growth and opportunity for MasTec for years to come.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue was $389 million an increase of 8% over last year's second quarter.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was up 20% for the second quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
We are now entering our strongest quarter for this business and order activity has been robust.
DIRECTV has an aggressive offer for the NFL Sunday Ticket and we expect that to help drive demand.
Our wireline revenue was up 16% for the quarter.
This now marks the sixth consecutive double-digit growth quarter for this market.
The growth is being driven by the expansion of broadband and Internet in rural markets along with slight improvement in the housing market.
Our wireless revenue was down 3% in the second quarter of 2012 versus 2011 but up 23% sequentially.
While we got off to a slower start with our largest customer this year volume has been ramping nicely.
We have excellent visibility into our full year plan and we are seeing an increasing number of opportunities with a growing number of carriers.
We are committed to growing our customer base and we believe this market affords us very strong long-term growth prospects.
Mobile data demand continues to drive the need for investment in networks and thus the demand for our services.
Our utility revenue was $596 million up 72% for the second quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
Revenues in electrical transmission and substation almost tripled year-ago levels and we're slightly under $100 million for the quarter.
The revenue growth was driven by the acquisition of EC Source and strong organic growth.
Bidding activity for transmission projects is very active and we believe we are in a good competitive position.
Also after quarter end we were awarded a 120-mile transmission project in Texas that begins immediately this quarter.
Moving to power generation which includes renewables.
Revenues for the quarter more than tripled those of last year.
The growth is being driven by strong demand for our wind farm construction services the acceleration of our solar projects and our entry into the gas generation space.
We will have a record year in wind revenues and we are actually encouraged by the activity we are seeing in wind for 2013.
We are in very active discussions related to 2013 projects and in the timing of those projects considering both the expiration and/or extension of the production tax credits.
Our solar revenues are also experiencing significant growth.
We expect this to be a very active market for the next couple of years helping us offset any potential declines in our wind business.
We have also been very focused on growing our thermal power revenues.
Since quarter end we have been awarded a significant pipeline terminal pumping station project that will begin in late 2012.
Shifting to pipelines.
Revenue was up 19% year-over-year and up 57% sequentially.
Revenues are tracking ahead of expectations.
And although we were previously expecting full year 2012 revenues to be flat with 2011 we are now expecting double-digit revenue growth in our pipeline markets.
While margins as a whole were positive in our oil and gas pipeline projects they were negatively impacted by our 2 troubled projects as previously mentioned.
We are confident that the pipeline market affords us a great opportunity for future growth at attractive margin levels.
Backlog has grown since quarter end and there continues to be significant bidding activity.
To recap.
We're off to a good start of the year that could have been significantly better.
Margins and margin improvement is our number one priority and we expect solid progress in the second half of the year.
We've got strong backlog to support what we believe will be another record year of revenue and earnings.
We expect strong cash generation in 2012 and I continue to believe that we are in an excellent position to take advantage of the opportunities our different markets are affording us.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover second quarter financial results third quarter guidance and 2012 full year guidance.
And I will also cover cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
Here are MasTec's Q2 headlines.
Second quarter revenue increased 38% over last year to a record $992 million that's our highest revenue quarter ever.
Second quarter organic or non-acquisition revenue growth was 32%.
The revenue growth was broad-based with significant growth in power generation and industrial formerly referred to as renewables; electrical transmission; oil and gas pipeline and facilities; and install-to-the-home.
Second quarter EBITDA was $81 million compared to adjusted EBITDA of $71 million last year.
That's a 14% increase.
Second quarter fully diluted earnings per share was $0.37 compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.31 last year.
That's a 19% increase.
In June we sold DirectStar our DIRECTV retail marketing business for $99 million in cash.
As of July we have repurchased $75 million of common stock this year and $150 million since September of 2011.
Our liquidity at quarter end was $449 million compared to $188 million a year ago.
We calculate liquidity as unrestricted cash plus availability from our bank credit facility.
I'll cover accounts receivables and DSOs in detail later but it is worth noting that we have had significant improvement in our AT&amp;T receivables and company-wide in our unbilled receivables.
We are raising our full year 2012 EPS guidance to $1.50.
Now let me get into the details of our results.
Q2 revenue was $992 million up 38% versus last year.
The growth was led by our power and industrial work which more than tripled and our electrical transmission work which almost tripled.
Most of the remaining markets were up double digits for the quarter except for wireless which was down slightly versus last year.
However recent public comments by our largest customer indicate a 55% increase in second half wireless CapEx which is consistent with our back-end loaded expectations from our Q1 call.
Install-to-the-home which is primarily DIRECTV was up 20%.
The growth primarily came from the new DIRECTV territory in the Northeast that we acquired last July in the Halsted acquisition.
Wireline was up 16% primarily due to ongoing broadband stimulus work.
Oil and gas pipeline and facilities was up 19% year-over-year in Q2 with some of the growth coming from our Fabcor acquisition in Canada.
Second quarter G&amp;A expense depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense as a percent of revenue all improved slightly versus last year.
Second quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization increased from 85.9% last year up to 87.9% this year.
The biggest driver of the increase was the unanticipated higher cost of substantially completing the 2 troubled Marcellus projects.
We booked job losses last year on these 2 projects and this year we expected to book the remaining revenue without any margin.
However cost to complete on these projects were higher than expected and we booked approximately $25 million of additional job losses in the second quarter.
For the second quarter of 2012 the 10 largest customers were: AT&amp;T with 17% of total revenue and down 7% versus last year; DIRECTV was 14% of total revenue and up 19%; MidAmerican Energy was 9% of total revenue.
Included in that number is our big electrical transmission project in Utah handled by EC Source and wind farm work handled by Wanzek Construction.
Energy Transfer a pipeline customer was up -- was 6% of revenue; Duke Energy and Dominion Virginia Power were both 5% of revenue.
Duke is a wind farm customer and Dominion is a pipeline customer; Chesapeake and EQT both pipeline customers were both 4%; DCP Midstream another pipeline customer was 3% of revenue; and Exco a wind farm customer rounded out the list at 2%.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q2 include 1 telecom customer 1 satellite television customer 5 oil and gas customers 2 wind farm customers and 1 combined electrical transmission and wind farm customer.
Also we continued to reduce our customer concentration.
Note that we no longer have any 20% customers.
At quarter end our backlog was $3.1 billion and that number now excludes DirectStar which was sold.
As always I'm giving you an 18-month backlog number.
The comparable number at year-end 2011 was $2.1 billion -- I'm sorry 2010 was $2.1 billion and $3.1 billion at the end of 2011.
Our backlog includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from master service agreements and other similar contracts.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
A quick summary of Q2 cash flow would be: We had good earnings.
We sold DirectStar for $99 million in cash.
We repurchased $35 million of stock in the quarter and we had a large increase in accounts receivables related to $275 million of revenue growth.
I've already talked about earnings in DirectStar so now let's cover our stock repurchases.
We repurchased $35 million of stock in Q2 and another $40 million in July to complete our $150 million stock repurchase plan that started in the fourth quarter.
We have repurchased 9.47 million shares at an average purchase price of $15.84.
Accounts receivable in total were up $232 million versus Q1 mostly driven by the 38% growth in revenue.
Our accounts receivable day sales outstanding or DSOs were 80 days at quarter end up slightly from the 78 days last quarter.
Let me mention a few items regarding our receivables.
First I can say that we have finally turned the corner on our AT&amp;T wireless receivables.
We have improved our AT&amp;T DSOs by over 50 days since year-end including significant improvement in our unbilled receivables with them.
Second we have seen a significant improvement in the amount of unbilled receivables all around the company.
Compared to the end of Q1 while total AR is up $232 million the unbilled AR balances despite the revenue growth were down at the end of Q2.
We currently expect to make additional progress with receivables over the rest of the year with the goal of getting DSOs back into the upper 70s.
Regarding capital spending we spent $14 million for Q2 compared to $17 million in Q2 last year.
Our current forecast for 2012 CapEx is $65 million down slightly from 2011.
Now let me talk for a moment about our capital structure.
As a quick capital structure summary at quarter end we had $816 million in equity $510 million of total debt only $493 million in net debt that's net of cash and we expect to have $325 million of 2012 EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios are in very good shape.
I'd like to note 3 things about our capital structure.
First we have no significant debt maturities until '14 '16 and '17.
And second all of our debt has attractive interest rates and terms.
And third we have tremendous availability from our $600 million mostly unused bank credit facility.
Availability from our bank credit facility at quarter-end was $432 million.
As I mentioned we are raising full year 2012 guidance.
MasTec's 2012 guidance is revenue of $3.55 billion to $3.60 billion EBITDA of $325 million and fully diluted earnings per share of $1.50.
That's a 24% to 26% revenue growth 25% EBITDA growth and 40% EPS growth.
Consistent with our prior communications the earnings growth rates reflect non-GAAP adjusting earnings for 2011 excluding the large EC Source remeasurement gain and the Teamster pension withdrawal liability charge.
MasTec's third quarter 2012 guidance is revenue of $950 million to $1 billion EBITDA of $100 million and fully diluted earnings per share of $0.52.
That represents a 15% to 21% increase in revenue a 25% increase in EBITDA and a 44% increase in fully diluted earnings per share compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Reconciliations to GAAP numbers are in yesterday's press release and in the 10-Q.
Our 2012 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of 39.8% and cash taxes of about 90% of booked taxes.
Acquisition and amortization expense is estimated at about $11 million for 2012 down from $14 million last year.
Our estimate for full year share count for fully diluted EPS is about 81.5 million shares.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
There's information about share count for EPS purposes in Footnote 2 in our 10-Q.
Our guidance excludes both the positive or negative impact that we might have from litigation matters including Sintel which is disclosed in the 10-Q.
Since we are in negotiations regarding Sintel we cannot comment on that matter beyond the 10-Q disclosure.
In summary we currently expect 2012 to be another good year for MasTec with record revenue net income EBITDA and EPS.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Alex Rygiel from Friedman Billings Ramsey.
Research Division</strong> And it's too bad you sold DirectStar in the quarter because you could have been $1 billion quarterly company this quarter.
That's right.
It was close.
Hopefully next quarter Alex.
Research Division</strong> Hopefully.
The $25 million charge in the pipeline business if we added that back to the second quarter is it fair that we would be adding or adding back $0.18 to $0.20 in EPS and your EBITDA margins would have been real close to that 10% target you've been going after for a while now? Yes.
So if you think about those specific jobs for the quarter they generated about $80 million of revenue and about $25 million of losses -- just over $25 million losses.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And then can you give us -- a good 3-year backlog.
Can you talk about some of the pluses and the minuses over the last 3 months in the quarter? Yes.
We actually highlighted a couple of jobs on the call.
So if you go back and we talk about a transmission job we talk about a job in our industrial generation group on a pipeline terminal job.
Those were all jobs that were awarded after quarter end.
We're trying to highlight large jobs.
We're trying to highlight jobs in the $100 million close to $100 million or $100 million-plus range.
We've had some good success on the renewables side of the business as well going into 2013 that we haven't actually signed yet.
So there's been a lot of activity since quarter end.
The fact that we were able to generate a record quarter and kind of hold backlog steady was -- we were impressed with and we hope we can continue to do that and really build of the backlog as we get into our seasonally strongest part of the year.
Research Division</strong> And can you quantify the new awards after the quarter that were sizable that you called out that weren't included in the backlog figure? The ones that we specifically called out in the call were all awarded after quarter end.
We'll go next to William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Going back to this $25 million is that the full extent? Or do we still have some lingering effects going into the third quarter here? The loss includes a provision going forward so it wasn't all for activity that happened in the quarter.
We -- every quarter we actually go through the job and we try to estimate where we think we'll end the job.
The good thing is the jobs are close to completion so they're going to be done in the first half of the third quarter.
We think we've got it all.
Obviously we felt the same way at the end of Q1 and a lot of bad things happened in the second quarter.
Although that job -- those jobs we were really kind of off those jobs in the first quarter so by the time we got back on them a lot hadn't happened in Q1.
So I think we -- obviously we're disappointed.
They were tough jobs.
We're frustrated.
Our team out in the field is incredibly frustrated with the performance of that job and we're all looking forward to getting them behind us and getting on better works.
So we think that's going to happen here relatively shortly and we think we've got it all behind us.
Research Division</strong> I mean considering -- you guys had a spectacular quarter considering that headwind.
A little more color on the oil and gas.
Right now I'm assuming what you have in backlog is strictly more gathering.
I hear from channel checks that long haul no real bidding yet but heavy discussions are taking place throughout the industry.
Can you give us a little more color on the pipeline sector right now? At this time last year we were all thinking about what was going to happen after Ruby.
And there was a lot of concern as it related to MasTec relative to how are we going to make up the revenues associated with Ruby and Ruby having been such a big part of our pipeline business.
And we went into this year somewhat cautious saying that we expected the business to be flat and that in and of itself would be a win based on the fact that we'd have to recoup so much of the Ruby revenues and we're sitting here today saying we expect double-digit growth for the year despite that.
So the industry is doing -- that market is doing great.
There's a lot of work out there.
There's a lot of activity.
We're having a great 2012 outside of those 2 projects that we're really struggling with and we expect '13 and '14 to be even better.
So that's a market that we are excited about and we think it's going to be fantastic for the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Currently what capacity are you running at right now? Currently...
Research Division</strong> In oil and gas? You've got -- again you've got 2 pieces of the business right? You've got the shale business and you got the long haul business so there's not a lot of long-haul stuff going on although there is a little bit.
So from a personnel perspective we are at high capacity.
We're at high capacity across the board at this point in that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question is on transmission.
Can you give us a sense -- you mentioned the award subsequent to the quarter.
What type of kilovolt is that project? 345.
We'll go next to John Rogers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jose in terms of the problem projects you mentioned other work in the pipeline was doing -- pipeline sector was doing fine.
But I'm just wondering are the other projects outside of the Marcellus.
Or is this a problem with working in that region? We have projects both within the Marcellus and outside of the Marcellus.
So when we look back to last year I think we identified fairly early on that these projects were going to be a problem both of these and we've kind of being living with that now for almost a year.
And I know everybody's probably tired of hearing it and we're tired of talking about it.
Outside of that the other projects in Marcellus have done very well for us.
Marcellus has been a region for us where we have performed well over time.
We've got a lot of successful projects that we've completed and a lot of successful projects that we're working on now.
So it has nothing to do with the region it has to do with these particular jobs and our execution and a lot of issues.
I think we've talked a lot about it in the past.
But these projects started off poorly for us.
We were pushed -- they were delayed at first which pushed us into a different construction season than we had anticipated for the job and it kind of all went downhill from there.
But outside of those projects the Marcellus region has been a fantastic region for our company.
We plan to continue to work there for a long time.
So it's not region-specific it's job-specific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up I guess for Bob maybe.
Do you expect cash collections given your mix of business now and the larger construction projects to pick up substantially at the -- I guess in the fourth quarter as all these -- as a lot of the seasonal work has completed? That's what we currently expect John.
We normally have a big second quarter ramp in growth and until we get the bills out and can collect this ramp-up -- and frankly this quarter we had a bigger ramp than normal.
And some of that ramp will continue into the third quarter.
And then we tend to get our best collections by the middle of the third quarter and then in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> So reasonable DSOs at year-end would be what? What I said was upper 70s.
We don't think of an 80-day DSO as being particularly acceptable.
That's where we were at the end of the quarter.
Some of that did relate to this huge ramp in revenue.
But I see us being in the upper 70s.
That's my current expectation and that's actually what I said.
We'll go next to Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jose just back to the transmission project for one second.
This project looks like it might be -- I think you said 120 miles right? PacifiCorp is 100 miles.
So can we assume a sort of a similar sized to the PacifiCorp job? We know what that size is.
And then do you see any more than this job? I know I'm being greedy now but why not? It's not of the same size so it's a little bit different.
It's obviously a sizable project for us which is why we're disclosing it.
We've been talking for quarters about our activity in the transmission space.
We don't expect this to be the only win that we have which is obviously a good win and we're participating in a lot of projects.
And we think we've got a shot so hopefully there's more to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bob I just want to ask you the receivables question in a different way.
Last quarter you had talked about -- you had expected improvement in 2Q.
And I know you had a bigger growth in revenue and that was probably some of the issue here.
Are there any customers where DSOs are moving the wrong way? Or is there -- are there any actions that you can take to really impact DSOs besides just sort of waiting for some of these guys to pay you? Yes.
Yes we can take actions.
But frankly they are the -- in a way the normal actions that we do take.
Sometimes it's mix.
Again we had the big growth in revenue.
I was especially encouraged with all the growth as I mentioned that the unbilled portion actually went down from Q1.
And that's the first step.
If you can get it out of unbilled into billed we generally get paid reasonably promptly.
So it's more driven by billing milestones or construction milestones that allow us to bill.
And I think we're doing a pretty good job today of then promptly getting the bills out then we generally get paid per terms.
Research Division</strong> Just are these wind customers good payers generally? Is there anybody else? Like is your mix changing at all that's hurting DSOs? Or is it just kind of steady as you go? No it was more of the revenue growth.
Yes I don't know that I'd characterized there's a whole lot big difference in mix.
We do somewhat better in install-to-the-home.
We've talked about that and we do somewhat worse in the telecom world.
And everything else you could sort of characterize it's sort of in the middle.
We'll go next to Peter Chang from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question I -- on the EBITDA margin guide for the back half of the year it looks like you had decreased that maybe 50 to 100 basis points.
I understand wind is a large part and that's lower margin and you had mentioned some provisions for the pipeline or that the pipelines -- those projects are moving to Q3.
What is the cause though for the decrease in the overall margins? Is it just that simple that's wind and maybe you guys are being a little conservative on the remainder of the pipeline business or that project? Two things.
When you look at the first half of the year obviously our revenues have far exceeded where we expect it to be and yet EBITDA has kind of been in line where we had originally guided.
So there you just have lower margins.
Some of that has to do obviously with the 2 pipeline projects that we've talked about.
When you look at the back half of the year and you kind of back into where guidance had been it really hasn't changed drastically.
It's almost where our guidance was at the end of last quarter.
It's a little bit higher in revenue for the back end of the year probably another $100 million or so.
And we've decided to keep margins or EBITDA flat with where we had kind of originally looked at it from our original guidance.
So there's a little bit of margin deterioration in the back end back half of the year and a lot of that has to do with the fact that we haven't really hit it right? I mean we've kept putting EBITDA guidance out there that we've missed for whatever reason and we feel very comfortable we can hit it.
And we want to put numbers out there that we feel comfortable we can hit and as we do that our long-term goal hasn't changed.
We continue to believe that we can get to double-digit EBITDA margins and we're going to continue to work at that.
And hopefully we get there in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just to build on John and Andy's question on the cash flow but I guess just to be very explicit with it.
If you were to provide free cash flow guidance for the year what would that be? Well then we'd be providing free cash flow guidance.
Research Division</strong> Would you feel comfortable doing that Bob? We haven't been ready to.
It's obviously been a little volatile for us if you look at the last 2 or 3 quarters.
I'll certainly consider doing that but we're not going to do that today.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
I thought I would try.
If you think about our company revenues we're guiding a 4% to 7% increase in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
That's probably the lowest increase that we've had in the last couple of years.
If you think about in 2010 we were up 44% second half of the year versus first half.
In 2011 it was 21%.
So the fact that we think revenues are going to be more constant should bode really well for cash flow second half of the year as a lot of that revenue ramp happened from Q1 to Q2.
We'll go next to Adam Thalhimer from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wasn't going to ask this but Jose you mentioned -- I mean why would revenue not be up more in the back half versus the first half? Well I think first renewables is a big part of our year and I think renewables is pretty much set for the year.
I think we've excellent visibility into the full year plan.
So I think the chances of that dramatically increasing are slimmer.
The revenue numbers are a lot bigger now than they've historically been so changes in revenue aren't as dramatic which we think is good because we show -- we think it shows stability at our overall business and less volatility as time goes on.
We're taking somewhat conservative views going forward in terms of what we have in backlog and really not making a lot of assumptions relative to what we might win and book and burn in the second half.
So I think those are the reasons.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How many natural gas spreads do you guys -- construction spreads do you guys have now? And can you talk a little bit about profitability of your nat gas backlog once these projects -- problem projects roll off? We've never looked at our business from a spread perspective.
I think spreads are a lot about long haul.
I don't think spreads play a very active definition in what you'd call shale.
So for us shales have been a bigger part of our business for a long time.
We haven't really gone out with number of spreads.
We obviously have some and we do measure it but I don't think it's -- I don't think it would give you anything worthwhile for you to understand our business any better.
We've said our oil and gas projects pipeline projects were profitable for the quarter despite that loss provision so I think we're doing really well across the rest of our projects.
And obviously as those burn off and we're off to better work that -- where we can generate margins the profitability of that business is going to drastically change.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on transmission.
The job in Texas is that something that EC Source will do? Or do you see that as a kind of legacy MasTec job? And then can you talk a little bit about what kind of capacity you would have to take on additional jobs past the Texas job? So we evaluate all of the jobs and really the resources that we have in place.
So as we look at it obviously we have different entities that work.
But we try to maximize our ability to generate profits on a job and thus we'll decide who does the job based on that.
We've obviously shown a lot of growth in that transmission space over the course of the last year.
We want to continue to grow the business.
We think we've got capacity to continue to grow.
So again it's -- we're hopeful that we'll win a lot more jobs as time go on and that business will get a lot bigger for us.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one is I think it's been asked earlier on in other ways.
Your implied fourth quarter revenue guidance shows a pretty big dip down.
Is that seasonality to some extent? Or is it largely conservatism or cautiousness as you see it right now? I'd say it's seasonality.
We're working on a lot of bigger projects towards the end of the year.
Some of those projects will be coming off.
We've obviously got the holidays and stuff in the fourth quarter so I'd say it's more seasonality.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the second question is Jose you've obviously been pretty bullish on your opportunities.
Backlog is up 9% year-on-year.
As you look out past 2012 and I know it's very early but qualitatively speaking do you see opportunities to grow your revenue base even though you might have difficult comps on the wind side to some degree et cetera? Well we're not ready to give revenue guidance for 2013 for sure.
I think we have been planning for a long time to be in a position whereas if wind revenues would decrease and we're obviously having a great year in wind that we'd be in a position to make that up.
So I think we've said all along that we expect to be able to grow in '13 versus '12.
I don't think we'll grow at the levels we're currently growing off of '11 because we'll have some tough comps relative to wind.
And with that said who knows right? But wireless pipeline transmission we've got a lot of good businesses in our portfolio that could have a great year.
And we'll see and as the year plays out here and we have better visibility especially on our generation business into '13 we'll be able to better comment on that.
We'll go next to Liam Burke from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
Research Division</strong> Jose the first -- in the second quarter you have obviously $25 million write-down on the projects.
You also had a fair amount of materials purchased in that gross margin numbers so that held it back too.
So we're looking at the second half of the year where you get that immediate lift.
What are the possible headwinds that you see in the second half of the year that could slow your margin growth? When we look at materials I don't think materials are going to change much.
We're obviously doing some larger projects where we're providing some materials so I think that's going to be a constant as the year goes on.
I don't think that was a -- I know the numbers went up.
I don't think that really changes our look going forward because we've estimated that into our jobs.
It's about execution.
There's nothing today that we know that could be a headwind.
At the end of the day we've got to execute on projects.
We had an issue with these 2 jobs.
We've got to make sure that we get better at bidding and on executing on projects so we're not sitting in the same position but we've learned a lot from it.
We've taken a lot of steps internally as to how we look at our business and bids and projects and how close we're monitoring those and how quickly we're in front of our customers talking about issues.
So at this point we really don't expect any.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bob on the accounts receivable we can beat this one to death.
But last year you had a run-up in receivables at year-end.
You now have DSOs at 80 days.
What's different at the end of this year that you won't have at the end of last year? Well at the end of last year we were quite public about it.
After we had that really big spike in AT&amp;T wireless revenue we publicly talked about getting behind and closing out projects and getting them billed and what that did to our DSOs.
And we're not going to have that in the second half.
We really have turned the corner on that.
And I think I mentioned DSOs in that market for us are down -- have improved 50 days since year-end so we really have turned the corner.
And so as I've said DSOs which were 80 days at quarter-end should come down modestly and maybe that's my just being cautious.
But all I'm willing to do now is say it will definitely improve and that's why I'm saying upper 70s.
We'll go next to Noelle Dilts from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all just another quick question on the pipeline projects.
Could you give us an estimate of how much revenue you expect to book in the third quarter related to those projects? To the 2 troubled projects? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The 2 troubled projects yes.
In the $20 million range.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears a little bit.
Could you just go into a little bit more detail on your wireless business? Is the type of work you're doing right now primarily 3G? Are you starting to see a real pickup in 4G yet? Last quarter you talked about expecting kind of a little bit less than 10% growth.
It looks like based on your commentary about CapEx increasing in the back half it could be a little higher than that.
But just give us an update there.
I guess across the whole industry there's been a huge shift into what I'll call LTE or Long Term Evolution which is really 4G.
We're seeing big increases relative to that.
It's become a much greater piece of our workload and we continue to believe that it will grow as a piece of our workload going forward.
So that's going to be what drives the business for the next 3 to 5 years.
As it relates to 2012 specifically it's a strange year in that we had all the issues last year with T-Mobile and AT&amp;T and that not going through and how that affected the budget cycle for 2012.
We're expecting growth in the second half of the year in that business.
Obviously we grew sequentially 23% from the first to second quarter.
We're expecting double-digit growth in the back half of the year versus the first half of the year.
So I think it's going to be a good year.
I don't know that we've really changed our outlook for the year at this point in terms of what we think that business will do.
So we're kind of planning to the work that -- the work plan that we've had all year.
It could get better but we're not currently counting on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have any updated thoughts on the backup generation contract? There's no new updates on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us the organic growth at install-to-the-home excluding Halsted? 6% for the first 6 months flat for Q2 versus Q2 year-over-year.
We'll take our last question from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up -- actually 2 follow-ups.
Bob in terms of CapEx can you sort of break that down a little bit in terms of end markets? And then finally what is your say 2013 target on DSOs? Okay.
On the CapEx I'll say this.
Last year was a little higher and it had something of a concentration in pipeline CapEx.
This year it's a slightly smaller number.
I think we were $72 million last year.
This -- our guidance right now is $65 million.
And I think it's pretty broad based without any real spikes in one group versus another.
There's nothing -- a lot of it is -- some of it's replacement and some of it's expansion.
But there's no -- there's not the same -- if you remember we ramped last year from $30-some million up to $70 million and a lot of that was pipeline or the biggest spike in it.
This year there's really no big spike anywhere.
Research Division</strong> Do you need to increase CapEx specifically for transmission large-scale transmission at this point? Not at this point but we will over time.
We expect to over time.
Research Division</strong> And then Bob the DSO question where is your long-term target? It is changed with mix Bill.
If you go back a few years bluntly we had to go public goal of 60.
We struggled to hit it but we've finally had a couple of quarters when we hit it.
And the mix again with communications being generally our highest DSOs is that's grown and that's hurt DSOs.
And install-to-the-home was our best but it continues to shrink in the mix.
So then what you have is a lot of construction projects.
And I think we publicly talked -- we got some help for some -- really some almost advanced billings on some large projects that we're currently not having.
We're always asking for them or striving to get them.
So in a way I haven't answered your question about '13.
If I had to say something today it would be something in the 70s.
But to be honest while we're going to strive for it I'm not rushing to say 70 or low-70s based on our current mix.
At this time we have no further questions.
All right.
I'd like to thank you for your interest and participation on today's call and I look forward to updating you on our third quarter call.
So thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call Initial Broadcast on November 2 2012.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Marquita.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MasTec's third quarter earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's call we may also discuss certain adjusted financial metrics or use non-GAAP financial measures in our analyses.
A reconciliation of any adjusted financial metrics or non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings press release SEC filings or on the Investor Relations section of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
The discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A answer period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of good news today and I'd like to turn it now over to Jose.
Jose? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2012 third quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our third quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
Before we get started on behalf of MasTec I would like to offer our thoughts and prayers to all of those affected by Hurricane Sandy including our team members and partners in the area.
We are praying for a speedy recovery.
Also before getting into the numbers I'd like to cover 2 topics.
First as discussed on our last quarterly call we took a $9.6 million pre-tax charge for the settlement of litigation in Spain arising from a subsidiary we sold in 1998.
And second during the quarter we also made a decision to sell our small water and sewer subsidiary that has been struggling in recent years due in large part to the lack of financial resources available to municipalities and state governments throughout the country.
My discussion of our third quarter numbers will exclude both of these.
Now some third quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $1 067 000 000 a 31% increase over the prior year's third quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $101 million an increase of 31% over last year's third quarter.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations was $0.53 an increase of 51% from last year's third quarter and cash flow from operations for the quarter was $119 million.
In summary we had another excellent quarter.
I'm proud to say that revenues in this quarter exceeded the full year revenues of 2007 my first year as MasTec's CEO.
We've come a long way in 5 short years.
More importantly during that same period earnings growth has outpaced revenue growth.
While we enjoyed strong growth during the quarter and our operational and financial performance continued to improve the highlight of the quarter is the improving outlook for the markets that we serve and the long-term growth prospects for the company.
Our exposure to petroleum and natural gas pipelines and facilities high-voltage electrical transmission wireless infrastructure construction and construction of power generation sources should continue to be excellent sources of growth and opportunity for MasTec for years to come.
Now I'd like to cover some industry specifics including recent trends and opportunities.
Our communications revenue was $437 million a slight increase over last year's third quarter.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was up 21% sequentially and down slightly year-over-year.
With our expansion into the Northeast last year we now have a significant presence in a number of states impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
Though to date the storm has been very disruptive to this business we will be supporting DIRECTV in restoring service to their customers as quickly as possible.
During the quarter we also extended our contract with DIRECTV until October of 2016.
We are proud of our relationship with this important customer and appreciate their continued confidence in MasTec.
Our wireline revenue was up 16% for the quarter.
The growth is being driven by the expansion of broadband and Internet in rural markets along with the improvement in the housing market and continued activity relating to providing fiber to wireless sites.
Our wireless revenue was up sequentially and down just under 5% year-over-year.
We have been working off of our full year plan and have performed as expected.
We are committed to growing our customer base and have made considerable progress.
During the third quarter we were awarded significant LTE builds for 2 additional carriers.
While we'll see some small revenue impact in 2012 the bulk of the revenues for these awards will be earned in 2013.
We have also been asked by our largest customer to help in other regions across the country.
At the beginning of the quarter we were predominantly working in 9 states.
Based on current awards we expect to be working in 25 states in 2013.
Mobile data demand continues to drive the need for investment in networks and we are seeing a growing number of carriers with expansive LTE build-out plans and thus the increase in demand for our services.
Our utility revenue was $627 million up 68% for the third quarter of 2012 versus 2011.
Revenues and performance in the electrical transmission and substation is strong.
We expect full year growth to exceed 50% from 2011.
More importantly we continue to expand our presence and win new high-voltage work.
During the third quarter we were awarded 3 significant projects: first as discussed on our last call we were awarded a 118-mile 345 kV transmission line in West Texas as part of the CREZ project; second we were awarded a 54-mile 500 kV transmission line project in Arizona; and third we were awarded a 72-mile 500 kV transmission line project in Pennsylvania by PPL.
Bidding activity for transmission projects remains very active and we believe we are in a good competitive position for future awards.
Moving to power generation which includes renewables revenue for the quarter quadrupled those of last year.
The growth is being driven by the strong demand for our wind farm construction services the acceleration of our solar projects and our entry into the gas generation space.
We will have a record year in wind revenues in 2012.
While we've been awarded wind projects for 2013 we do not expect 2013 levels to match those of 2012.
The wind market will be challenged until there is a resolution to the tax credit environment available to wind developers.
We plan to help offset these declines in wind by our continued growth in solar and our expansion into the thermal power market.
We have a number of significant opportunities in solar that we are bidding and we should grow our solar business in 2013.
Additionally we were recently awarded the construction of a terminal station on the southern portion of the Keystone pipeline and we are actively working to grow that portion of our business.
Shifting to pipelines.
Revenue was up 31% year-over-year and tracking ahead of expectations.
We are now expecting pipeline revenues to approach $1 billion in 2012.
We completed our 2 trouble projects during the quarter and while we experienced some losses on those projects margins improved nicely quarter-over-quarter.
We are also seeing a significant increase in large-diameter long-haul pipeline opportunities.
These long-haul opportunities coupled with the continued strong demand in the different shale basins across the country should result in more opportunities and better pricing for all pipeline contractors.
We are confident in our ability to grow this market and bidding is very active.
To recap we're having a great year and we are really excited about the opportunities in the markets that we serve.
Margins and margin improvement is our #1 priority and we expect solid progress targeting a return to double-digit margins in 2013.
We are enjoying another record year of revenue and earnings and believe that we are positioned to do it again in 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover third quarter financial results and guidance for the rest of the year and I'll also cover cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
Before I start I want to provide additional color on the 2 material third quarter items that Jose mentioned in his opening remarks.
First we have announced plans to sell our small water and sewer business which has struggled in recent years.
The company recorded a $15.3 million pre-tax charge in the quarter reflected in discontinued operations which includes the write-off for goodwill the estimated loss on sale of the business and losses from operations for the third quarter.
The impact of this charge was $0.12 per diluted share for the third quarter.
Second we recorded a $9.6 million pre-tax charge related to a potential settlement of our legacy Sintel litigation taking place in Spain which dates back to 2001.
The impact of this charge was $0.07 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2012.
In my remarks about MasTec's third quarter results I will be referring to continuing operations adjusted financial results a non-GAAP measure without the discontinued operations numbers for our water and sewer business and without the charge for the potential Sintel litigation settlement.
A reconciliation to GAAP basis reported numbers can be found in our press release and our 10-Q and also on our website.
As Jose mentioned we had another strong quarter.
I'll go into details in a moment but here are the Q3 headlines.
Third quarter revenue increased 31% over last year to a record $1.07 billion and all of the growth was organic without acquisitions.
That's our first quarter ever with revenue over $1 billion.
The revenue growth was led by significant growth in power generation and industrial and in oil and gas pipeline and facilities.
Continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.53 this year and up 51% from the third quarter last year.
Third quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $101 million compared to continuing operations EBITDA of $77 million last year.
That's a 31% increase.
Third quarter cash flow provided by operations was $119 million compared to a negative $68 million for the third quarter of 2011.
Now let me get into the details of our results.
Q3 revenue was $1.07 billion up 31% versus last year.
The growth was led by revenue from power generation and industrial projects which quadrupled year-over-year.
Next revenue from oil and gas pipeline and facilities projects was up 31% from 2011 from a broad range of customers and locations.
Mostly as a result of rural broadband stimulus spending wireline communications was up 16% and electrical transmission increased by 7%.
Wireless revenue was down slightly from last year's record-breaking third quarter and install-to-the-home was roughly flat.
Third quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue increased from 86.1% last year to 86.6% this year primarily due to higher material costs associated with our power generation and industrial projects and higher costs on several oil and gas pipeline and facilities projects.
Third quarter G&amp;A expense depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense as a percent of revenue all improved slightly versus last year.
For the third quarter of 2012 the 10 largest customers were: AT&amp;T was 17% of total revenue and down from 23% last year; DIRECTV was 16% of total revenue down from 22% last year; Energy Transfer Company a pipeline customer was 8% of revenue; MidAmerican Energy was 6% of total revenue included in that number is our big electrical transmission project in Utah handled by EC Source and wind farm work handled by Wanzek Construction; Chesapeake and DCP Midstream both pipeline customers were 4% of revenue; Enbridge and Dominion Virginia Power both pipeline customers were 3%; and finally 2 wind farm customers were also at 3% Duke Energy and EXCO.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q3 include 1 telecom customer 1 satellite television customer 5 oil and gas customers and 1 combined electrical transmission and wind farm customer.
Also we continued to reduce our customer concentration.
Note that we no longer have any 20% customers.
At the end of the third quarter our backlog was $3.3 billion compared to $3.1 billion at year-end 2011 and also $3.1 billion for Q2 2012.
And all of these numbers now exclude our discontinued operations DirectStar which was sold earlier this year and our small water and sewer business that we discontinued in Q3.
Our book-to-burn ratio for Q3 was 1.2 which is pretty good.
As always I'm giving you an 18-month backlog number.
Our backlog includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from master service agreements and other similar contracts.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
Cash flow provided by operations was $119 million for the third quarter compared to a negative $68 million a year ago.
Because of the strong Q3 cash flow we were able to reduce the outstanding balance on our bank credit facility from $64 million at the end of Q2 down to $10 million at the end of Q3.
And that was in a quarter in which we also repurchased $40 million of common stock.
Accounts receivables in total were down $13 million versus Q2 despite the 8% sequential year-over-year growth in revenue.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs were 75 days at quarter end down nicely from 82 days last quarter.
While unbilled AR grew in the quarter it was primarily driven by revenue growth.
Retainage also grew in the quarter because we still have some significant projects near completion.
And upon completion we will be paid our retainage.
Release of these retainage amounts should be a strong driver of cash generation both in Q4 and also in Q1 2013.
And finally we continue to make progress on our AT&amp;T wireless receivables.
We have improved our AT&amp;T DSOs by 53 days since year-end 2011 including significant improvement in our unbilled receivables with them.
Capital spending -- or regarding capital spending our year-to-date CapEx was $50 million.
We are increasing our estimate for 2012 full year CapEx to about $75 million.
Our previous estimate was $65 million but we now estimate greater spending to support anticipated electrical transmission and oil and gas pipeline growth and to take advantage of the 50% bonus tax depreciation that is available this year.
Our estimated 2012 capital expenditures of about $75 million is slightly higher than the 2011 spending of $72 million.
Now let me talk for a moment about our capital structure.
As a quick capital structure summary at quarter end we had $816 million in equity $453 million of total debt only $443 million in net debt that's net of cash and we expect to have $325 million of 2012 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios are in very good shape.
I'd like to note 3 things about our capital structure: first we have no significant debt maturities until '14 '16 and '17; and second all of our debt has attractive interest rates and terms; and third we have tremendous availability from our $600 million mostly unused bank credit facility.
Availability from our new bank credit facility at quarter end was $491 million.
In the name of clarity before I cover 2012 full year and fourth quarter guidance let me cover explicitly and in detail what we have done to derive continuing operations adjusted numbers for 2012 and the comparative numbers for 2011.
In summary there are 3 items that we're carving out of our 2012 earnings and 2 items that we have adjusted out of our 2011 earnings.
So there are a total of 5 items impacting the numbers.
First in the second quarter of 2012 we sold DirectStar our DIRECTV marketing business at essentially book value and all prior period earnings are now classified as discontinued operations.
That means that our $325 million of 2012 EBITDA excludes the $6 million of EBITDA earned by DirectStar earlier this year.
Second in the third quarter of 2012 we adopted a plan to sell our small water and sewer business and recorded a $15.3 million charge -- pre-tax charge in discontinued operations.
We wrote off the water and sewer goodwill and wrote down all the assets to what we believe is fair value for a $12.7 million charge and we had $2.6 million in operating losses in Q3 for the water and sewer business.
This business is also now classified as a discontinued operation and excluded of course from continuing operations numbers.
Third and also in the third quarter of 2012 we booked a pre-tax reserve of $9.6 million for a potential settlement of our legacy Sintel litigation which is taking place in Spain and dates back to 2001.
Fourth in the second quarter of 2011 we recognized a $29 million pre-tax remeasurement gain related to acquiring all of EC Source our electrical transmission large-project company.
And fifth in the fourth quarter of 2011 we recorded a $6 million pre-tax charge for the withdrawal liability caused by leaving one of the Teamsters multi-employer pension plans.
We believe that it is useful for our constituents to see our numbers for continuing operations only and without the adjustment items that I just covered.
We have reconciliations for all of these items to GAAP measures in yesterday's press release in our 10-Q and on the MasTec website in the Investor Relations section.
As I mentioned we are adjusting full year 2012 guidance.
MasTec's 2012 guidance is revenue of $3.66 billion continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $325 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.50.
That's 29% revenue growth 33% growth in continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and 55% growth in continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS.
Our 2012 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39%.
Acquisition amortization expense is estimated at about $11 million for 2012 which is down from $14 million last year.
Our estimate for full year share count for fully diluted EPS is about 82 million shares.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
There's information about share count for EPS purposes in Footnote 2 in our 10-Q.
Fourth quarter 2012 guidance is revenue of $866 million continuing operations EBITDA of $92 million and continuing operations diluted earnings per share of $0.45.
One final comment about guidance.
A number of our businesses operate in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy.
It is just too early today to determine the extent to which Hurricane Sandy could impact our fourth quarter results.
Therefore our guidance does not reflect any impact either positive or negative that might arise from the storm.
In summary we had a good third quarter.
We put a couple of troubling issues behind us in the quarter and we currently expect to close out 2012 with a good final quarter.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Alex Rygiel from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Since Sandy is so high on everybody's mind right now unfortunately can you touch upon both the positives and negatives that you expect to experience over the next months and maybe identify sort of each one of your end markets that is experiencing other positives or negatives? Sure.
One of the things that's different for us probably now than in the past is we do have a much larger presence in that area in that geography than we traditionally had predominantly through our DIRECTV business.
We've got a lot of people in that market.
We obviously got into that market last year through the acquisition of Halsted so we cover a lot of the areas that really were most impacted by Sandy mostly in that business.
So the first few days of the storm have obviously been very disruptive.
We've got issues in terms of getting our people out and getting them working.
And obviously DIRECTV needs power to work.
As soon as power comes back customers are going to find themselves without cable TV or satellite and I think satellite has a real advantage in being able to come back on air rather quickly once power is on.
There really doesn't need to be a lot of line work and stuff like for the cable TV companies.
So in the past at least in Florida when we've had hurricanes years ago it's been a big opportunity for DIRECTV to gain new customers and to try to bring people back to life as normal and some of that involves being able to have TV right? And so we'll support them and we've got a lot of people.
We've got a lot of people on standby to move into that area as soon as power is back to help them.
We obviously don't know what the impact to that business positive or negative will be.
It's going to depend on power coming back and really understanding what kind of damage to people's satellite and roof there was in the market.
When you look at our distribution and transmission businesses we have a lot of people that have been deployed into the area.
We're supporting the electric companies from a power perspective.
It's a big opportunity for us obviously and one that we participated in on past storms.
I think this one's going to take a while so I think there's a lot of opportunities for everybody in that business unfortunately to generate some extra revenues.
We've got the pipeline work that we're doing in the Marcellus area that was slightly affected.
None of our jobs were really impacted too badly so we think that we're trying to find areas of support there and ways of supporting the pipeline companies.
We're talking to some of the federal government agencies about some of the opportunities.
So it's early.
I think that everybody's worried about restoring power at this point.
It's a tragedy and we've lived -- obviously we're from Miami so we've had to live with this for a long time and I think we understand it well.
And we'll be there to try to support whatever customers need us.
Research Division</strong> And secondly your quarter was very strong.
Your guidance for the fourth quarter also is very solid but not necessarily higher.
Given the very strong new award -- awards in the quarter any particular reason why maybe you didn't raise guidance in the fourth quarter? Well a couple of reasons.
First when you -- we have no Hurricane Sandy impact in our numbers because it's too early to tell so we didn't adjust our fourth quarter at all based on the storm positive or negative.
We've got a decline of about 40% in our renewable business built into our fourth quarter so a big chunk of the drop from Q3 to Q4 is really driven by the renewal projects that we've been working on all year.
And to some extent from a margin perspective it's very positive right because that business runs at about half of the EBITDA margins of the rest of the business so it's dilutive to margins.
It's outperformed all year.
It outperformed in Q3 from a revenue perspective.
A lot of our revenue beat was associated to what was happening in renewables.
So that's a good thing and at the same time it's a bad thing because it depressed our margins a little bit.
So you see a margin pickup.
Some of it is really the change in mix in terms of renewables dropping in Q4 versus Q3 and that's been expected.
We've had a phenomenal quarter in terms of wins both in our wireless business and in our transmission business and even in the pipeline business.
But a lot of those projects quite frankly will have some startup in the fourth quarter but a lot of that's going to hit in 2013 which again is -- from our perspective gives us a lot more clarity into next year.
And we feel great about going into 2013.
But I don't see enough acceleration in those projects to have a big impact in the fourth quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Research Division</strong> Jose in the wireless business I couldn't help noticing the comments you made about your largest customer and expansion and then the 2 new LTE customers.
What does that mean as we go forward? I mean 9 to 25 is a huge number but at the same time maybe you're just doing a little bit of work in these extra states.
I mean is there any way to size the opportunity for us even if it's not absolute specific numbers? Well first it's great news no matter how you cut it.
I think it does a lot of things for us.
First I think it truly makes us a nationwide provider in that space.
I think we've been viewed unfortunately as a very very solid provider in certain geographic regions but quite frankly we weren't everywhere.
We weren't in every state.
We weren't in every geographic region.
And I think this changes that.
I mean if you look at the states that we're going to be working in next year we pretty much have a presence throughout the whole country.
And what it does is it opens up the opportunity for multiple awards in those states by multiple vendor or by multiple customers so it's a great business opportunity for us to continue to expand our wireless business.
We're not going to have the level of activity in every one of those states that we have in our current 9.
We're obviously a very dominant provider in the 9 states that we currently operate in.
And we're going to be building a presence in a lot of those markets some faster than others.
I think a lot of the future will depend on our ability to gear up in those states and really make a big presence.
But the opportunity the revenue opportunity that's provided to us is substantial.
It's big and it's going to be about our ability to execute how big that can get but we're expecting a very solid growth in that business in 2013.
2012 was somewhat of a year where there was a lot of challenges in the business.
AT&amp;T went through the T-Mobile acquisition issues of last year.
It affected their spend for 2012.
We've been living that all year.
Our revenues are exactly where we expected them to be so we've been working off the plan that we've had all year.
We have much better visibility into '13 in terms of what they're thinking than some of the other carriers.
And again we expect some pretty strong growth in that business in '13.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that you can do double-digit gain just on share gain itself? I mean is that something that we can think about? Let's say AT&amp;T was flat next year in your 9 states? I think it's absolutely an opportunity.
Again it's going to be about how we execute but that level of opportunity exists with our existing customer.
Research Division</strong> Okay fine.
And if I could switch to transmission just maybe a little clarity Bob.
The PPL award was that last quarter or this quarter 4Q for the backlog? It was right on the border and it is not included in backlog.
Research Division</strong> Not included okay good.
And then if you look at the opportunities going forward I mean both PPL PacifiCorp all these guys seem to have follow-up work or different lines that are going forward.
Inevitably we need to ask you about capacity but it seems like you've really got some momentum now.
So can we see this kind of continued momentum especially from these customers that you're gaining traction on over the next 6 to 12 months? Should we expect more good news? I mean I know you kind of said it Jose but just maybe any more clarity? Yes.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> I just want to voice Jose you made a real nice comment this morning targeting double-digit margins in 2013.
Can you provide a little more color on that what's going to be driving that when do you expect that run rate to hit? Look we have a business that should be delivering double-digit EBITDA margins.
We should be a business that's at at least 10% EBITDA margins.
When you break our business apart there's reasons that we've been challenged to get through this year.
We've talked ad nauseam about our 2 troubled projects in Marcellus that affected the last part of last year and the earlier part of this year.
We had an unbelievable year in renewables which again was very positive from a growth perspective but very dilutive to margins as the year went on.
Again those projects are running at about half of the margin of the total company.
So as the mix changes a little bit as we look into 2013 with transmission and pipeline growing the way that we expect and wireless growing the way we expect and our power generation group including renewables really shrinking as a total size of the company the margin story becomes a lot nicer.
And we've been saying for a long time that '13 is a year that we expect to be at at least 10% EBITDA margins.
That's the goal that we're putting out there.
That's the targeted goal and we really think we can hit it.
You back out the renewable business for the quarter in total and we would have been at about 10.7% for the rest of the business.
Now we're still going to be in that business but it kind of does give a perspective on where the overall business is and the things that we need to do to get our overall margins up.
Pipeline the margin should have been a lot better this year.
They're performing dramatically better now than they were last quarter but we still have improvement there.
So we're pretty excited about where the business is going where it's headed and our margin potential opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And I just want to touch on pipeline a little bit right here.
Precision can you give us an idea -- since that's primarily long-haul how are you balancing that? Are you able to bring those individuals down to the shales and utilize some of those assets? And in addition you've mentioned that in long-haul a lot of talks are happening.
One of your competitors voiced that as well earlier this week.
Give us some more color on long-haul.
Well 2 things.
I think A we've been in the shales since we've been in the pipeline business so as a lot of the companies that we first acquired were shale businesses and we've been very active in all of the major shales for years.
And I think that's really helped us and it helped us as the long-haul market deteriorated a couple of years back and we saw less work in the long-haul market.
Our shale business really grew and it's a part of the reason that we've got close to a $1 billion pipeline business is because we've got so much work in the shales because there isn't a lot of long-haul work today.
That's changing.
Precision used to be predominantly a long-haul pipe contractor that became a predominantly shale contractor because of what was happening in the market.
And the long-haul market's returning.
We expect them to be a significant player in that market.
There are a lot of opportunities for us.
We're extremely bullish about that business just because it's going from very little activity to a lot of activity.
And I think everybody in the space is going to enjoy that and really benefit from that.
And with that said the business in the shales isn't going anywhere.
I mean it's as active or more active than it's ever been.
So when you add all the long-haul work that's coming with the existing shale work that's already there there's going to be a significant strain on resources which is going to give the ability to every major pipeline contractor to A win more work; and B more importantly really price the work better and hopefully if you can execute and you can price it well see much better margins than what the industry's seen in the last few years.
And we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is really a follow-up to something Andy asked earlier on.
You've got the generator program happening with AT&amp;T.
You've got a very commendable regional expansion.
If AT&amp;T's wireless CapEx is flat next year do you think from these market share gains and the generator program you could still see growth? So a couple of things just to try to put that in perspective.
A the generator program for us is a program that we haven't really seen any activity under yet because it was -- through this year it's been unfunded.
So while we were expecting to do a lot of work in the generator program this year it didn't come to fruition and I think we've talked about that on previous calls.
It still hasn't.
Now I think that unfortunately Hurricane Sandy's bringing that a lot to light.
There's been a lot of discussion.
There was an article I believe in the Wall Street Journal yesterday specifically about generators and wireless towers which I think is very positive.
There was -- the article talked about how the SEC was at one point considering mandating that to all of the wireless carriers and it didn't happen.
But obviously this is going to raise that again into the limelight and I think it will be interesting to see what comes of it and I think we're well positioned if that happens to be a major participant in some type of rollout like that.
So we'll see what comes from that.
Again I think AT&amp;T this year put out its CapEx forecast.
I think they've talked about being maybe on the lower end of that range.
Again we've been saying it all year.
They had a lot of unintended consequences happen from T-Mobile issues and I think they're very active.
They've got big plans.
They're full steam ahead on LTE and I think you'll see it in their numbers next year.
Research Division</strong> That is helpful.
And my second question is in regards to Wanzek.
I think all of us sometimes end up thinking of Wanzek as more of a wind contract while it's so much more.
And we've seen some big awards go Wanzek's way but as you look at the petrochemical industry and really the huge exciting opportunity that's unfolding here in the U.S.
and you started to see some orders come out can you talk about any prospects you see for Wanzek on the industrial and manufacturing side? Well look I think the win that we had with TransCanada on the Keystone pipeline for the terminal station is a huge win.
It's a huge market that's going to open up a lot of opportunities for us with all the different really carriers and pipeline companies that are out there building.
There's a lot of that that happens on every major line and that happens to be a very significant project in terms of size and scale.
And there are projects like that and there are projects that are smaller than that are really good.
So we've been in the process of repositioning Wanzek for a long time.
When we bought them they were primarily a wind contractor.
Today we're doing so many more things out of that entity including solar and the peaker plants and things associated with industrial and gas generation.
So look it's a long process.
It doesn't happen overnight.
We've hired some really good people into that team and over time it's going to look different.
It's going to be a very different business a few years from now than the one that we bought a few years ago.
But I think we're doing all the right things.
I think they have tremendous momentum and they're moving in the right direction.
And it's a matter of winning new work expanding into new markets gaining a reputation gaining a foothold and then growing based on that.
And I think we've done some of that.
I think we've demonstrated some of that.
But I think really the opportunities and the success there is yet to come.
And we'll take our next question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just addressing a couple of other businesses that we haven't talked about so much yet on the DTV side you've seen a little bit of weakness in the last 2 quarters.
Can you just give me your initial thoughts on going into '13 on that business maybe talk about what's driving some of the weakness and if you expect that to persist next year? We're tied to DIRECTV in that business and obviously the direction that they decide to go and the things that they try to push are going to affect our business one way or the other.
They've been very vocal this year about not necessarily being a year of customer additions but rather a year of retention.
And I think you'll see us -- I think you'll see some of that next year as well.
I expect to see a pretty good ramp in what they call upgrades just based on what we're hearing from them and they're going to invest a lot of money into their existing customer base and obviously try to solidify that to lessen the churn numbers.
I think you're going to continue to see a similar number in terms of additions.
So we're right now a little bit bullish in terms of where we think that business goes versus this year.
I think they kind of put the brakes a little bit in 2012 and I think you'll see maybe that improve a little bit in '13.
But like in every one of our businesses part of our job is to figure out what do we do with that work force and how do we find growth within the platform that we have.
And we've talked a lot about it in the past.
We think security is a natural extension for us in that business.
We're doing some trials with some people right now that are probably progressing a little bit better than others that we've done in the past.
So we're working hard at diversifying their customer base and I think that the real opportunity for growth in that business is our execution on that diversification.
And when we find something that hits that's going to be a very good story to tell in that business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then with these big transmission project wins which are again very impressive can you just discuss -- I know you don't talk about margins specifically for each of your businesses but can you just talk on a relative basis what you're expecting in terms of margins? Are you expecting these projects to carry similar margins to your Mona-Oquirrh work? Are you seeing a little bit better pricing in the market? I'd appreciate your thoughts there.
Well I think you can see it in the industry.
The transmission business generally performs at higher margins than at least what we've been able to deliver as a total company.
Our transmission business has delivered higher margins than our total company margins and we expect that to continue.
So really no changes with the work that we've been awarded.
We expect it to outperform the rest -- really our company average margins.
And our next question comes from Veny Aleksandrov with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is on the pipelines business.
Apparently it's a huge business for you right now and I just want to make sure that we understand.
In the shales Jose that makes the [indiscernible] there was a lot of business in the shales but at the same time the number of drilling projects in the shales keep decreasing and everybody else is struggling there.
So I just want to make sure that we understand the drivers why your business is so strong on the pipelines side.
Well I don't think you're hearing anything differently from any of our peers.
Those that are involved in this business are very active.
It's a very active period.
Infrastructure in the different shales is still to a great extent nonexistent.
There's a lot of work that needs to happen in the sales to have the infrastructure available for people to be able to move.
Whatever they're drilling out we're seeing -- when you see some of the very successful shales one of the things that you'll find is that there's multiple levels to those shales so you can be drilling for dry natural gas you can be drilling for liquids.
And we've seen a lot of movement of drills over the course of the last 6 months based on the different price of the different commodities.
But we're seeing very active -- we're seeing a lot of activity right now relative to pipelines.
Our customers tell us as we go through their '13 thinking and budgeting and plans and we think it's going to be a bigger year than '12.
So for us there's no end in sight.
It's very active and we expect it to continue.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what's your geographic distribution on the pipelines business right now? Well the biggest shales for us are the Marcellus Shale and that whole area including Utica and really in the Texas shales in predominantly Eagle Ford.
We're active in Bakken.
We've worked in Haynesville so it's really broad-based.
I think there isn't a major shale that we're not either participating in or getting close to participate in.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one very short question.
On the Bangor [ph] how -- what percentage of it is pipelines plus power generation? So Veny we didn't provide that and I don't think we have that here handy.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jose directionally speaking all these wireless awards I mean -- and what would you think that -- what would you expect the growth rate -- the revenue growth rate to be in wireless next year just ballpark? Well it's never ballpark with you right? You guys always want a number.
But we'll -- look I think it's going to be a great year.
I think we're going to get to a really solid double-digit growth rate and another double-digit growth rate doesn't give you a lot of guidance.
But I don't think we're in a position to necessarily guide our wireless revenues for next year other than to say we're obviously going to be in a lot more territories participating in a lot more jobs.
The opportunity is huge for us and some of it's going to come down to execution and our ability to execute on those opportunities.
But we've enjoyed enormous growth rates in the past in that business.
And again '12 has been somewhat of a slow growth year and we expect '13 to get back to a rather rapid acceleration again in the wireless business.
But I don't have a number to give you today.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
And then I did want to ask about master service revenue.
It's up sequentially but down 15% year-over-year.
Is there -- is that more of a mix shift or is there some weakness on kind of the utility side of the business? No there's no weakness.
I think it's definitely mix right as you grow transmission in pipelines.
Those are project-based -- and even the renewables right? I mean all of our renewable business is really project-based work.
So because of the spike in renewables revenue it's probably moving that number a little bit more than what we'll see next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more quick one.
Does government revenue go to 0 now? Pretty much.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First of all just in terms of the revenue from the industrial and projects that you disclosed the $200 million is that all pipeline and transmission in there? No I think that's our power generation renewable business.
So that's mostly wind farm solar and the industrial work that we're doing not transmission and not pipeline.
Research Division</strong> And not pipeline okay.
That's what -- I just wanted to make sure.
And then I guess Bob you talked about the stepped up capital spending.
What is that for? Is it installation equipment or...
So I think that the message or one of the messages today is we're seeing excellent acceleration in our transmission business.
We feel that we're going to see excellent acceleration in our pipeline business so those are obviously capital-intensive businesses where we'll put a lot of iron on the ground.
I didn't get the question but I know it was alluded to earlier in terms of capacity and our ability to manage to capacity.
One of the things in terms of being able to have the capacity to do a lot more work is having the right people most importantly and then obviously the right equipment.
And I think what you'll see is us spend a little bit more on equipment in terms of what we've guided to today.
We're also going to look at the election.
We're going to look at where we think the bonus depreciation rates are going and we may look at that further as the year plays out because the 50% bonus depreciation is somewhat of an important metric.
And I think depending on the election we'll have a much better feel of where that's going to head and based on that we may look at things differently in Q4 or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess -- I mean that's what I was trying to get to is how much more capacity does this give you? Well it's only $10 million of additional CapEx.
So it's not -- it's modest.
But I think that we will -- obviously we'll start buying CapEx for 2013 as well.
It's all going to depend on the wins right? So if we keep winning at the rate that we've been winning then we're going to need to spend more money and that's a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your depreciation run rate now is what or close to a -- $23 million a quarter? This quarter was about $23 million.
We expect it to go up slightly in Q4.
And obviously as we keep buying new equipment that's going to continue to increase.
So I think it was $23 million this quarter.
And our next question comes from Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On the SG&amp;A front it looked like you've got -- as a percent of sales it came down a little bit.
Will you be able to continue to get leverage off that line and is that part of your assumption in how you're getting to the double-digit EBITDA goals? Well no.
I mean if you look at -- SG&amp;A went up $4 million quarter-over-quarter so it wasn't a significant jump and we're not going to have enough movement in SG&amp;A to have dramatic effects on margin.
The quarterly jump was attributed somewhat to increased legal expenses some of which pertain to our resolution of the Sintel matter in Spain.
So we had about $1 million increase in legal expenses quarter-over-quarter.
And then with -- based on the performance that we've had we actually approved more bonus in the third quarter than we had in the second quarter which drove a couple million dollars more of SG&amp;A on the wage side.
So I don't think you're going to see huge changes in our SG&amp;A from a pure dollar perspective as we go forward and obviously as the company grows we'll gain some mix benefit to that.
But I don't think that's the main -- that's not by any stretch of the imagination one of the main drivers in margin expansion.
The real driver on the margin expansion is improvement of the gross margin line.
And some of that's the mix from more pipeline and more transmission and not having the drag of the Marcellus challenges this year and the mixed blessing margin benefit -- or the benefit of frankly less wind [ph] as we look to next year.
So the G&amp;A line as a percent of revenue is not going to -- we've come down dramatically over the last 5 years and we may still get some additional scale benefits but the EBITDA margin improvement will be driven by gross profit not G&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the wireline front Jose you mentioned stimulus being out there and the growth is still there.
How do you see that going into 2013? When I look at that business and you got to go back a few years you got to go back into the '07 time frame '06 '08 that business was down from its peak by 40% 50% both in the distribution and the wireline side.
So those businesses were devastated by the housing crisis and I think you'd see that with a lot of our peers as well.
And I think what the stimulus is going to end up doing is really bridging the gap between the time of the issues around the housing market to the housing market starting to come back.
So what we're seeing in both of those businesses today is that the housing market is improving.
It's having some effect on those businesses which is very positive.
And there's still a lot of stimulus work left that's probably going to go through '13.
And I think that we're going to see a continued improvement in the housing market through '13 going into '14 and I think at that point the housing issue is going to really help those businesses.
And if you think about a lot of the houses that are starting a lot of the housing -- or the projects that are tied to housing that have started a lot of them were projects that had been started by a developer and then stopped and they went back out and maybe the pads were poured or -- and in a lot of those cases the utilities had already been taken to those subdivisions.
So a lot of the housing structure you're seeing today don't necessarily positively affect our business.
It's when you start having greenfield communities that get built where it begins to really impact our business and I think that's what we're going to start seeing over the course of the next year.
And I think that both of those businesses the distribution and the wireline communications business are going to be very positively impacted by that.
And our next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions.
One's quick and I promise Marc that I'll stick to those 3.
The first is can you tell me how much revenue you did on those 2 troubled pipeline projects in the quarter? About $25 million.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just clarify you're now -- with AT&amp;T asking you to participate in these expanded markets are you participating as a secondary contractor or how does that kind of fit into the contract structure that you have with AT&amp;T? So we're being asked to participate in new markets.
Obviously the reason we're being asked is they're having issues completing their builds.
And our hope and desire is to turn those opportunities into long-term plays for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the industrials and renewables business can you just talk about -- with wind coming off so significantly first can you talk about the growth rate and your -- I know you're expecting growth in solar but maybe just talk about the number of pipe projects you're seeing in the pipeline and then just touch on how you're addressing resources in that business.
Obviously you've ramped up both your labor and equipment to some extent to meet this level in 2012.
With wind falling off how are you thinking about reallocating those resources and just addressing that significant decline? Sure.
So a couple of things.
I think we'll see a reduction in our power generation revenues next year for sure because we won't be able to offset all the wind decline with some of the other businesses.
I think overall as a company we'll offset them and we'll grow but not necessarily within that business.
But we'll make up some of it and I think that the biggest opportunities to make up some of that revenue shortfall for the time being is in solar.
There's a lot of activity in the solar market.
We've got a lot of bids outstanding for substantial amounts of money which could really drive the business next year to -- in a very large way right? So it could be very positive or it could just offset some of the losses.
So the solar business is just active a lot of projects a lot of business and I think we've done a good job this year of building that business of getting it better and so a lot of opportunities.
We'll continue to grow the other pieces of that business.
So we feel real good that we're going to have a very sustainable business that's going to actually perform at better margins next year than it did this year.
But no question there's a decline.
From a resource perspective one of the reasons that we're having such margin challenges in that business is we didn't spend a lot of capital based on what we thought was going to be somewhat of a bubble year so we're renting a lot of equipment which is at a much higher expense which is negatively affecting margins but obviously when the projects are done you get rid of that equipment and you have no tail on those expenses.
And two from a personnel perspective which is a great question we're actually doing everything we can to keep as many of those people within the organization and we've moved a lot of them into our wireless business.
So a lot of those guys that were placing towers or climbing up the towers have now moved into our wireless business into similar-type roles where I think they can be very successful and really help us in our competitive landscape within that business.
And we'll take our final question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Jose so why have you been giving us all these jigsaw pieces to the puzzle? I've been trying to piece them together for 2013.
Last quarter you said revenues maybe would be flattish maybe it seems we might see some low-single-digit growth.
And then if I take that alongside your double-digit EBITDA margin percentage it seems difficult to come up with revenue growth of less than 20% 25% for next year.
Are there anything any factors I need to think about for 2013 which could be offset? So a couple of things Tahira.
I think A we will see a decline.
I do not think we're going to grow revenues at 20% next year because we have a significant decline in our power generation business that we'll see.
So I don't want you to get -- I know you're excited and so are we but we've got a hill to climb from our power generation business.
That business is going to do north of $600 million next year and that business could be off $200 million dollars next year.
So we'll make that up with the rest of the businesses and we'll still have growth.
We do strongly believe that.
But last quarter we said we think we can grow the business in the mid-single digits from a total growth perspective total company including the generation business.
And we're going to stick to that for now.
Obviously if we're successful in some of the solar opportunities that we're looking at then maybe the whole -- this whole conversation changes.
We will see nice growth in pipeline next year.
We will see growth in transmission and we will see growth in wireless.
But again we should see about a $200 million decline in our generation business roughly.
So I think over the course of the last few years -- I know the flip side because it might be your next question.
We have beat revenues.
We've consistently beat revenues and our hope is to continue to beat revenues.
But at the same time we're laser-focused on margins.
We've been saying we expect to get to double digits.
We've fallen short of that goal here as of late and we need to get there.
So for me the story for 2013 is more about margins than revenue growth.
It's about finally getting to our double-digit margins on some revenue growth and when you start penciling out even that EBITDA it's obviously a substantial increase in growth to EBITDA.
So we're going to have hopefully significant EBITDA growth even if we don't have significant revenue growth.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Mas for any closing remarks.
Well again our prayers are with everybody that's been affected by Hurricane Sandy.
Hopefully we can get through this rather quickly.
Based on everything that's happening we really appreciate everybody's participation.
And we look forward to speaking again on our year-end call so thank you very much.
And that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-End 2012 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on March 1 2013.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thank you Ginny.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements as described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will primarily be discussing adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release our 10-K or in the Investors and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I hand over the call we'll hear opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last for about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of great things to talk about today and I'd like to turn the call over to Jose.
Jose? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2012 year-end call.
Today I will be reviewing our fourth quarter and full year results as well as providing my outlook for 2013 and the markets we serve.
Before getting into details I'd like to take a step back and make some observations.
A few years ago we publicly set out to diversify our business and put ourselves in a position to have greater growth opportunities with improved margins.
Over the course of the last 5 years we have grown revenue from just under $1 billion to $3.7 billion with some pretty remarkable organic growth.
And during that same time frame EBITDA has grown sixfold.
We accomplished these objectives despite a difficult market environment.
While these are impressive financial results our greatest accomplishment is how we positioned ourselves across a number of growth industries that offer us expanding opportunities for both continued growth and better margins during an improving market environment which today we are clearly in.
Now some full year highlights.
2012 revenue was up 32% to $3.7 billion.
Organic revenue growth for the full year was 25%.
2012 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was up 35% to $332 million.
Full year cash flows from operations was $172 million and 2012 full year continuing operation adjusted EPS was up 55% to $1.50.
For the fourth quarter revenue was up 27% to $932 million organic revenue growth for the quarter was 26% fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was up 100% to $99 million and quarterly cash flow from operations was $57 million and fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EPS was up 283% to $0.46.
In summary we had another excellent quarter and an excellent 2012.
More importantly 2013 is shaping up to be another record year for MasTec.
While we are bullish about all the markets we serve we expect the primary growth engines of the company to be our pipeline wireless and transmission markets.
We'll cover those more specifically later.
Also it's important to note that included in our 10-K is a business breakdown by segments.
From this point forward we will be providing financial data by the following segments: communications oil and gas pipeline electrical transmission and a power generation and industrial segment.
Bob will provide more details on those later.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue for 2012 was $1.8 billion an 8.4% increase over 2011.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was up 10% over the prior year driven by the full year results of the acquisition we made in 2011 which expanded our territory and gave us a large presence in the northeast.
Highlights for 2012 included the successful integration of our acquisition and the extension of our contract with DIRECTV through 2016.
We expect single-digit growth in this market in 2013.
Our wireline revenue was up about 12% for the year over 2011.
The growth was driven by the expansion of broadband and Internet in rural markets along with improvement in the housing market and continued activity related to providing fiber to wireless sites.
Our wireless revenue was up 24% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus 2011 and up slightly for the full year.
We believe that our wireless business will have increasing opportunities for growth for the foreseeable future.
We are in the midst of a significant network technology enhancement with 4G or LTE long-term evolution and today we are seeing a growing number of carriers expand and increase their investment in their networks.
We continue to have success with a number of these carriers.
In 2012 we saw a slower ramp from AT&amp;T as a result of the capital planning delays associated with the failed merger with T-Mobile.
We expect solid growth with this customer in 2013.
All said we expect our wireless business to enjoy solid double-digit growth in 2013.
Our oil and gas pipeline revenue was $959 million for 2012 compared to $774 million in 2011 an increase of 24%.
For the quarter revenues were $244 million compared to $160 million in 2011 a 52% increase.
The next few years will be driven by the continued need for infrastructure across all of the different shale basins enhanced by a significant increase in the demand for large diameter long-haul pipeline construction.
The increase in work will lead to a tightening in the market.
We expect another strong double-digit growth year in 2013.
In December we made an acquisition that enhances our capabilities around both facility work and gathering line construction.
This acquisition expands our service offering our customer base and most importantly our cross-selling opportunities.
We are also very bullish on our opportunities in Canada and view that as a strong growth market.
Revenue in our electrical transmission business was $312 million versus $198 million in 2011 an increase of 57%.
For the quarter revenue was $84 million versus $76 million last year an 11% increase.
2012 was a very successful year for our efforts in transmission.
We significantly increased our backlog and had a number of very high-profile wins including the 169-mile Sigurd to Red Butte line which our customer announced at the end of November.
Our competitive position improved throughout the year and we believe we are very well positioned for continued growth and success.
Bidding activity remains very strong and we expect revenues in this business to grow over 30% in 2013.
Our power generation and industrial business had revenues of $668 million versus $220 million in 2011 an over 200% increase.
This is the one market segment where we expect revenues to decline in 2013.
Uncertainty related to the wind production tax credit had many developers and suppliers virtually completely suspend plans for 2013.
While the tax credit was extended during the fiscal cliff negotiations we don't expect project activity to increase until late 2013 or early 2014.
Due to the extension we expect 2014 to be a very active year potentially at the levels of 2012.
In the meantime we've been working to diversify our business into other renewables like solar and more importantly into gas-fired generation in oil &amp; gas facility work.
In 2012 we won 2 gas-fired peaker plants projects and a large facility project whose revenues will be mostly realized in 2013.
But this won't offset the headwinds in our renewable business.
For purposes of guidance we have assumed that revenues in this segment will reduce by approximately $300 million.
Most of that dropoff is associated with wind and a slightly softer market for solar offset by our expansion in the power generation and gas facility work.
In summary 2012 was a record year for MasTec.
Revenue earnings and cash flow all grew substantially from 2011.
But more importantly we continue to improve our competitive position across a number of what we believe to be high-growth markets.
I am extremely proud of MasTec's accomplishments.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the men and women of MasTec for their commitment sacrifices and efforts in making 2012 another record year.
I'm sure they'll agree that we are excited about 2013 and we're ready to do it again.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO Bob Campbell.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover 2012 financial results and 2013 guidance and I'll also cover cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
Consistent with previous calls when I cover our financial results and our guidance I will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and earnings.
A full reconciliation from GAAP results to continuing operations adjusted results is included in our 10-K and in the press release tables.
The adjustment to 2012 results was to add back the $9.6 million pre-tax charge for our legacy Sintel Spanish litigation which dates back to 2001.
In addition my remarks will only cover continuing operations without one any losses associated with our small water -- municipal water and sewer business which is for sale; and two without the profit from DirectStar our DIRECTV marketing company which we sold in Q2.
Both of these businesses are now accounted for as discontinued operations in all periods.
The adjustments to 2011 results were to back out the $29 million pre-tax EC Source remeasurement gain and to add back the $6.4 million pre-tax charge for our Teamster multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability.
In addition the 2011 adjusted numbers are for continuing operations only without the water and sewer business and without DirectStar.
Also in my remarks today I will be sharing reportable segment data for the first time.
This is a significant new disclosure by reportable segments -- there is a significant new disclosure by reportable segment in our 10-K that we expect will be very helpful.
Let me give you a brief overview of our 4 primary segments.
Our largest segment is communications and it includes our telecom wireline business our wireless business and our install-to-the-home business.
Our oil and gas segment includes petroleum and natural gas pipeline and related facilities.
Electrical transmission does transmission work and also substation work.
Power generation and industrial offers a very wide variety of services.
Power generation and industrial does natural gas turbine power plants built a coal-powered generation plant in 2011 does our wind and solar power generation also does oil and gas facilities work.
This is the organization that is going to do pumping station work for the southern portion of the Keystone pipeline.
And power generation and industrial also does various other types of industrial construction including building processing plants.
In the past we have often referred to this group as our renewables group.
But frankly the group has always been more diversified than just doing wind and solar.
Before I get into my detailed remarks let me give you a quick overview.
For the third year in a row we had record full year revenue net income and EBITDA.
Fourth quarter revenue was up 27% from last year with 26% organic growth and full year revenue was up 32% with 25% organic growth.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter roughly doubled to $99 million and full year continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $332 million an increase of 35% over 2011.
The full year organic non-acquisition adjusted EBITDA growth was 25%.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 10.6% in the fourth quarter which was encouraging relative to 2013 and better than our 9.5% in Q3 and dramatically better than 6.8% in Q4 last year.
Continuing operations adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter was $0.46 compared to $0.12 last year.
Full year continuing operations adjusted EPS was $1.50 compared to $0.97 last year that's a 55% increase.
Fourth quarter cash flow from operations was $57 million and the full year was $172 million.
We had both strong earnings and cash flow in 2012.
Full year 2013 guidance is revenue of $3.9 billion to $4.0 billion and continuing operations EBITDA of $410 million to $420 million.
That's revenue growth of 5% to 7% EBITDA growth of 24% to 27% and the continuing operations EBITDA margin of 10.5% compares to 8.9% last year.
I'll provide a 2013 EBITDA margin bridge a little later.
And finally our capital structure and liquidity are just in great shape today and we currently foresee no issues in supporting our targeted levels of growth.
Now let me get into the details of our results.
Q4 2012 revenue was $932 million up 27% from last year with broad-based growth and our organic or non-acquisition growth was 26%.
Our oil and gas business was up $84 million or 52%.
Our power generation and industrial business had dramatic growth mostly in wind of $70 million roughly double last year.
Communications grew $37 million or 9% led by growth in wireless which had 24% growth.
And finally electrical transmission grew $8 million or 11%.
Jose mentioned a number of recent large contract awards which should accelerate transmission growth in 2013 and beyond.
Q4 continuing adjusted EBITDA was $99 million which was roughly double the $50 million that we earned in 2011.
Q4 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin improved sequentially from 9.5% in Q3 to 10.6% in Q4 and the 10.6% in Q4 this year was dramatically higher than the 6.8% last year.
Q4 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.46 compared with the $0.12 we earned a year ago.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 the 10 largest customers were: AT&amp;T was 18% of total revenue; DIRECTV was 17% of total revenue; Enbridge a pipeline customer was 8%; DCP Midstream a pipeline customer was 6%; MidAmerican Energy an electrical transmission customer and also a wind farm customer and Isolux USA an electrical transmission customer were each 3% of total revenue.
We had 4 customers each at 2% of total revenue: Energy Transfer Company a pipeline customer; and Chesapeake Midstream Partners another pipeline company; and CenturyLink a communications customer; and enXco a wind farm customer.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q4 include 2 telecom customers 1 satellite television customer 4 oil and gas customers 2 electrical transmission customers and 1 wind farm customer.
Note that we no longer have any customers over 20%.
And we have executed nicely on our strategy of reducing our DIRECTV concentration which peaked at 47% a few years ago and is now down to 17%.
We have done exactly what we said we would do which was to keep growing with DIRECTV a terrific customer but to grow our other markets much faster in order to reduce the concentration.
Now let's switch to full year results.
For 2012 we had broad-based revenue growth.
For the year revenue was up 32% to $3.7 billion and the organic or non-acquisition growth was 25%.
It's probably worth remembering that our 2011 organic revenue growth was 20%.
Power generation and industrial led by wind more than doubled to $668 million.
Oil and gas revenue was up $185 million to $959 million representing a 24% growth rate.
Our communications business grew $138 million to $1.77 billion or 8%.
Electrical Transmission grew $114 million or 57% to $312 million.
2012 full year continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $332 million compared to $245 million a year ago a 35% increase.
The organic or non-acquisition EBITDA growth was 25%.
2012 full year continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS was $1.50 and it compares to $0.97 a year ago that's a 55% increase.
Even though 2012 was another excellent and record year for MasTec it could have been even better without $36 million of wet-terrain-related pre-tax losses on the 2 Marcellus Shale projects that we have discussed in the past.
The 2012 EPS impact of the Marcellus losses was $0.26 and the impact on continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 120 basis points.
Our revenue was split between onetime individual construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenue.
For 2012 43% of our revenue came from master service agreements or other similar contracts and 57% came from onetime individual construction projects.
It should be noted that with many of our customers we do a significant number of repeat follow-on individual projects.
I just wanted to highlight that even though our onetime individual project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from these master service agreements and similar contracts.
At year end our backlog from continuing operations was $3.4 billion and that's a record level for us.
The comparable number at year end a year ago was $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion at the end of the 2012 third quarter.
As always our backlog is only for 18 months and it includes an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from master service agreements and other similar contracts.
You can see in our new segment data that at year end we had a high level of backlog $453 million for our electrical transmission business where we have publicly commented on 4 recent large awards.
On the other hand while we are very bullish about oil and gas at year-end 2012 we did not have a huge amount of 2013 revenue in backlog.
Oil and gas backlog was $220 million.
That's a product of 2 things.
First the shale work is relatively short duration book and burn-type work which doesn't ever have significant backlog.
And second none of the long-haul work which we expect will begin in 2013 has been signed yet.
However as Jose mentioned we currently expect long-haul work to be both awarded and started in 2013 and we currently expect to get our fair share of the long-haul work.
As a useful data point at December 2011 we only had $153 million in oil and gas backlog but we were nevertheless able to generate almost $1 billion in oil and gas revenue in 2012.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
As I mentioned earlier our cash flow from operations was $57 million for Q4 and $172 million for the full year of 2012 dramatic improvement compared to 2011.
Liquidity calculated as cash plus availability on our bank credit line was $372 million.
I've already talked about the earnings elements to our cash flow and now I'll cover a few of the other cash flow elements.
Our December 2012 DSOs or days sales outstanding continuing operations adjusted for December acquisitions were 83 days the same as December a year ago.
83 days is frankly a little higher than where we think we can operate over the long term.
But as I've said in the past our DSOs can bounce around a little based on individual big project payment terms and especially the ups and downs of job start ups and job closeouts and that's what happened in Q4.
But we currently believe that we will operate most quarters in the high 70s for DSOs and that's generally lower than our peers.
Regarding capital spending we spent $80 million for 2012 compared to $72 million for 2011.
As we mentioned in our press release we currently believe that we should have high levels of growth in oil and gas and electrical transmission for the next few years.
As our confidence level regarding sustainable growth has risen we have begun increasing our investment in equipment to support our anticipated growth.
MasTec's capital expenditures for 2013 are currently estimated at $100 million and we estimate the depreciation expense in 2013 will increase by about $30 million.
We see a great window of opportunity for the next few years and we're getting ready for it.
We believe that the P&amp;L benefit from our ramp up in equipment will primarily be seen in 2014 and beyond.
Another use of cash in 2012 was stock buybacks.
We spent $75 million on stock buybacks in '11 and another $75 million in 2012.
For 2011 and 2012 combined we have repurchased 9.5 million shares for a total of $150 million at an average price of $15.84.
The stock repurchases have been a very economical way of offsetting dilution from our $215 million of in-the-money convertible notes.
I'd like to comment on one other use of cash in 2012.
We spent $118 million on 3 individually small acquisitions in the last 2 weeks of December.
One of the acquisitions was a small wireless acquisition that improved our capacity and capability in the Gulf area.
Another small one provides ancillary pipeline services.
And the largest of the 3 is a strategic acquisition that has made MasTec a player in the oil and gas gathering line market.
Therefore today we can now offer relatively end-to-end oil and gas services from gathering lines to midstream to long-haul and we have a solid oil and gas facilities business.
Now let me talk for a moment about our capital structure.
As a quick capital structure summary at year end we had $862 million in equity $599 million of debt $332 million of 2012 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA an anticipated $410 million to $420 million of 2013 continuing operations EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios are in very good shape.
One other note we were recently upgraded to Ba2 by Moody's as a further reflection of improvements at MasTec Our 2013 full year guidance is revenue of $3.9 billion to $4.0 billion continuing operations EBITDA of $410 million to $420 million and continuing operations diluted EPS of $1.78 to $1.83.
The 2013 revenue projection represents a 5.7% increase over $3.7 billion for 2012.
Our 2013 continuing operations EBITDA projection of $410 million to $420 million is a 24% to 27% increase over continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $332 million last year.
The 2013 continuing operations EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.5% which compares to a continuing operations adjusted margin of 8.9% last year.
And continuing operations EPS of $1.78 to $1.83 is a 19% to 22% increase over a continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.50 last year.
Our 2013 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39%.
Cash taxes are estimated to be about the same as book taxes in 2013.
We expect an increase in depreciation expense from $80 million in 2012 to $110 million to $112 million in 2013 as a result of higher CapEx.
As I mentioned earlier the increased CapEx is going to support the growth in pipeline and electrical transmission.
Acquisition amortization expense is estimated at about $16 million for 2013 reflecting the 3 December acquisitions.
That's higher than the $12 million of amortization in 2012.
Our estimate for full year share count for diluted EPS is about 85 million shares and 84 million for Q1.
Remember that our stock price for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
My final comment about our 2013 full year guidance is about margins.
The continuing operations EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.5%.
Now let me bridge from the 8.9% continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin in 2012 to the 10.5% expected in 2013.
Let me give you 4 reasons that give us comfort in our margin expansion for 2013.
First we lost $36 million on our 2 Marcellus Shale pipeline projects in 2012 and we do not expect anything like that to happen in 2013.
Second we expect good growth in oil and gas which historically has been our highest margin business.
Third we expect good growth in electrical transmission and that's another high-margin business.
And finally we should start to get higher margins in our wireless business.
We currently project Q1 revenue of about $850 million compared to $738 million last year that's an increase of 15%.
We project continuing operations EBITDA of $72 million compared to $49 million last year an increase of 47%.
And we project Q1 continuing operations diluted EPS of $0.24 compared to $0.14 last year an increase of 71%.
Our earnings guidance excludes the P&amp;L impact of any future debt refinancing.
In summary 2012 was a record year in terms of revenue EBITDA and net income.
2013 is all about execution significant margin expansion and continuing strong cash flow.
We currently expect another record year for MasTec in terms of revenue and earnings.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear first from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jose we love the extra information but of course that allows us to ask questions on it.
So let me ask you a question about oil and gas margins.
You generated a little more than 10% margin in 2012 you talked about the Marcellus issues.
But you generated close to 20% back in 2010 so could we see a pretty quick snap back here to those kinds of margins or do we need sort of the long haul to get better utilization and better margins within that space? Andy I think the long-haul margins are a little bit better than the margins that you can obtain in the shales in the midstream.
So I think that what grow the 2010 margins was the predominant nature of long-haul work.
So I think it's a balance.
I think that we can obviously do a lot better than what we printed in 2012 a lot of it has to do with the losses in Marcellus.
But even if you normalize for that it's probably somewhere in between the normalized '12 margins and the margins that we obtained in '10.
But if things go your way the market tightens a little bit getting back to 2010 levels is not out of the question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then for my other question let me just ask you about your revenue guidance.
I know that you tend to be conservative.
You've got a big drop-off from renewables that we all know about.
If I exclude the acquisitions that you made at the end of last year you're probably looking at what something like 2% to 3% growth.
So let me just ask you this what end markets are you being more conservative in when you look at the revenue forecast for '13 and why? Well a there's no question that when we look at power generation and industrial it's the one where we have the least amount of visibility.
So for guidance purposes we've taken a $300 million reduction there.
There's no question that that can improve a lot if the wind market accelerates.
So what we have assumed there is -- last year there was a lot of uncertainty around the business because of the tax credit so obviously the tax credits got extended which will have a very very positive impact on that business.
The question is how fast does it come back? And we've probably taken a very conservative approach and view as to when it comes back so that could turn if the market accelerated.
Quite frankly in transmission we've pretty much got our year in backlog.
So to the extent that we win any type of work whether it's small or large that should have a positive impact on transmission.
Our pipeline business with the addition of the acquisition we've got it growing maybe 15% 20% organically.
Again with where we expect long haul to be that could dramatically improve.
Our wireless business can get better.
So the truth is we're not trying to sandbag the year by any stretch of the imagination.
We think that if we deliver $4 billion with the kind of margins that we're talking about we'd end up having a great 2013.
But if some things go our way we could obviously do a lot better.
And we will hear next from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is really in regards to the D&amp;A increase and investments you are making.
And I know Jose you've provided a bit more color around why you've been communicating confident on these markets.
Could you talk a bit about whether you have received commitments that make you so positive? Was it just the macro? And then were you filling up in terms of utilization with regards to the end of the year? Are these investments more so to really help you furnish the work you have recently booked or is it really in anticipation of the work that you think you could get? And I guess where I'm getting to with all that is are you going to have to make more investments that are notable by the end of the year or is this going to take you through for the next couple of years? So Tahira you've got one question in with a lot of sub-questions.
To answer the question.
Look I think that we are extremely bullish on the 2 businesses where we spend a lot of capital.
So in transmission and pipelines it's not about 2013.
If it was about 2013 we wouldn't have made those commitments.
It's where we're seeing this industry really start to gear up for what's going to happen in '14 '15 and '16.
Again like I said earlier in transmission for all intents and purposes the back -- we've got our revenue numbers in the backlog that we have and yet it's a very active market.
We're actually tracking following expect to bid projects over the next couple of years that correspond to more than 2 800 miles of transmission build that's an enormous amount.
We're obviously trying to gear up to get our fair share of that.
So we're very very bullish there.
When we look at pipeline the fact that Enbridge shows up as our third biggest customer in the fourth quarter is a very good sign for us.
Enbridge has an enormous amount of work for the next few years.
We've tended to be successful with the them so we're very bullish as to what's going to happen in our pipeline business.
Over the course of the last few years we've rented a lot of equipment in that business to really manage through the peaks and valleys as we haven't had great visibility for the long term we tend to be more conservative.
The fact is that we have better visibility today in that business than we've ever had.
We're extremely bullish we're spending money and we're going to gear ourselves up not for the growth in '13 but for the growth we think we can achieve '14 and beyond.
With that said we think that to the levels that we've geared up we're going to be able to show a lot of growth.
I hope Tahira to be in a position where I'm back in Q4 talking about the need to buy more equipment because it just means that our business is going to grow that much more.
But the reality for us to spend significantly above the levels that we're talking about we're going to have to see corresponding significant growth which would be a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And a quick follow-up to that.
Jose I mean in the past you've made acquisitions and hence in a sense bought capacity through acquisitions and both have been accretive.
The investments you're essentially making on the capital lease and CapEx side are near-term dilutive in a sense.
Is that because the acquisition targets out there are also approaching capacity at this point and the multiples are going high? Is that -- did you sort of look at those options when you made these decisions? The answer is yes and I think it's important when you think about that to say they're not mutually exclusive.
So the fact that we're doing this doesn't mean that we may make further acquisitions in the future to bolster our capacity.
With that said when our strategy around acquisitions and I think we've been talking about this for a long time and I think it's a part of our success is we work really hard at trying to organically grow the businesses that we buy.
And this is an example of us investing our money because we've succeeded on our goal of growing those businesses organically.
So the investments that we're making in those businesses are because we've done the right things in the business to put them in the -- to give them the opportunities and put them in the position to be successful and now we're backing it up.
So it's a great story.
And we will move on next to Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Research Division</strong> As it relates to a larger large diameter pipeline projects are we going to see them come into backlog or could they take the form of some different type of contract or vehicle such as maybe an MSA and maybe not necessarily come into backlog as quick as maybe you're awarded them? Both scenarios.
So you'll see it come into backlog and there will be MSA-type long-haul opportunities as well or MSA-like -- not really MSA but in the form that you mentioned which is your going to sign up with a customer and you're going to stay busy with them for a long time.
It may not necessarily impact your backlog number but we will have other projects that do improve the backlog numbers.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up on that question.
Do you think we're going to see any movement in that pipeline backlog figure in the first half of 2013 or is it more second half 2013? And also as it relates to electrical transmission do you think we can see some move in electrical transmission backlog in the first half of 2013 or should we be expecting the second half? So as it relates to pipeline you'll see it in both the first half and the second half.
As it relates to transmission I think you'll see it more in the second half.
And moving on we have a question from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> So a great color on the call a lot of good information.
You know Bob you mentioned the gathering -- that pipeline now consists of gathering lines midstream long haul in addition to the pumping station work you're doing for the southern portion of Keystone XL.
Jose Bob what is your take on pipeline integrity and inspection services? Is this sort of an area there where CapEx could gravitate to going forward? So there's no question.
I think that federal regulation probably needs to bolster up a little bit to see it happen everywhere but we're seeing it in pockets.
So there's parts of the country that are a lot more active than others.
It's a growing opportunity one that we're involved in today and we think will grow over time.
From a revenue perspective it doesn't move the needle like some of the other things that we're talking about but it's definitely part of what we're doing.
When Bob mentioned the segment breakout he talked about how in our communication segments we do a little bit of gas distribution work and we actually do some gas integrity work in that business as well.
So we've got a nice presence in the market we think it's a growing opportunity.
But quite frankly when we talk about gathering midstream long-haul and facilities that's where the real revenues are going to be generated at least for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> And it seems as though that the North America including Canada markets are very very solid for you this year and possibly next.
Can you give us a longer-term view on possible say international opportunities for you? Well we've got a lot of opportunities at home which is where we're focused.
There's no question that when we think about a number of our different businesses Canada just offers us a ton of opportunity because of what's happening there.
We tend to have a very favorable view of Mexico as well especially as we look out longer term.
So between our different businesses we're going to be North America focused.
But I think you'll see a growing presence in Canada and over time a growing presence in Mexico.
And we will hear next from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when I look at the step-up in depreciation $30 million step-up in depreciation it just seems a little bit large relative to the step-up in CapEx.
Is there -- can you just help me understand that? Is there something else beyond just the straight CapEx that we have to be thinking about here? Yes.
You have to think about capital leases.
And if you look at our 10-K and you look at the change in capital leases it went up I think it was in the mid-40s in the fourth quarter.
I think that will be probably the biggest jump.
We'll probably have a little bit of a jump in '13 but that also led to the increase in depreciation.
And we're all focused on 2013 as it relates to depreciation.
But the reality is in the fourth quarter of 2012 we also had a big step-up in depreciation.
So we ended up beating EBITDA guidance by $7 million but yet EPS was mostly in line and that had a lot to do with that depreciation number starting to hit us in Q4.
We put the orders in for a lot of this equipment early in the quarter and again we're ramping.
So it has a lot to do with where we expect the markets to be but it started affecting us in Q4.
And if you kind of roll that in through '13 with a little bit of increase that's where we get to the numbers that we're talking about for depreciation for '13.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your commentary on the Canadian market was pretty positive.
Can you talk about how these capacity additions are weighted relative to Canada versus the U.S.? As it relates to the depreciation increase that we've talked about and the capital leases that we've entered it's almost all predominantly in the U.S.
And moving on we have a question from Veny Aleksandrov with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Again my question is on the pipeline business.
You added some products it's apparently the first business probably that's going to reach $1 billion.
Do you have any appetite in terms of adding new areas domestically? I mean are there -- probably it has to be done through acquisitions.
Is it something you're thinking about? Well I think we've got a great geographic footprint today.
We serve all of the major shales.
Obviously in some we have a lot more market share than others.
I think when you think about Bakken I think it's a developing shale.
I think it's far behind the other shales relative to pipeline infrastructure.
And I think it's going to be a big growth shale in the future and I think we're well positioned there it just hasn't really started.
There are a number of other shale discoveries that people are starting to move into today which we're participating in.
So I don't think there's a major shale in North America that we're not involved in today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question the Sandy-related work.
Are you seeing any indications any contracts getting -- I know it's too early I know it's probably down the road but what's happening there? So as it relates to Sandy the business for us that was most impacted by it was our DIRECTV business.
We've got a good chunk of territory that was affected.
It was very disruptive for us early on in the process.
Obviously without power there's not a lot of DIRECTV work you can do.
So we had a little bit of disruption it was offset by some of the repairs that we did there.
So we kind of believe that that was kind of a neutral event for us in the fourth quarter.
As we look forward we don't have a huge presence in that area across all of our different businesses.
We do think over time there's going to be some nice opportunities related to the extension of gas -- of natural gas plants and stuff but not a huge market for us.
We'll keep an eye on it there'll probably be some opportunities but to be quite honest it's not where we're most focused from a business development perspective.
And our next question comes from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of questions about power gen.
Jose do the margins move up in 2013 even though the revenue is down? I mean are the margins on gas plants better than they are on renewable plants? So the answer is yes.
The challenge with 2013 is the challenge of scale because obviously the business is reducing pretty significantly in size.
If the wind market wasn't coming back it's a different conversation than if the wind market was coming back.
So we will probably hold on to some people and assets in that business because of the dramatic increase that we're going to expect in that business in late '13 or '14.
So I think it'll be a challenge for us over the next couple of quarters from a margin perspective just because we've got a lot of overhead relative to the revenue volumes that we'll be at.
But we think that will turn as the year progresses especially into '14.
So we will see improving margins in that business in 2014.
There's no question about it.
Our margins in '14 will be better than our margins in '12 even with the growing amount of wind in '14 because I think by that time we would have diversified the business a little bit better.
But we're kind of caught in a crossroad where our power business isn't big enough yet and our wind business is somewhat slowing down for a short period of time and that's going to create a little bit of margin pressure.
But over time we expect that to improve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then I wanted to ask about the outlook in oil and gas.
I mean if you assume that your oil and gas business is let's say a $1.1 billion $1.2 billion business today with the acquisitions you made in Q4 I mean where could that be in a full-blown mainline pipeline recovery? A lot bigger.
Obviously for all intents and purposes we hit a $1 billion when you include some of the gas work that's under our communications business because it's gas work even though it doesn't fall in the same segment.
With the acquisition that we made and the growth that we expect to have and the potential our next target has got to be $2 billion.
And we will hear next from Tristan Richardson with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> On the debt offering I'm curious Bob just generally I know you said that any costs associated with the exchange would be -- it's not included in the guidance but I'm sort of just curious on the timing and just the potential costs you're thinking about there and I know that tenders expired in March.
I'm just curious of your thoughts? So Tristan unfortunately Federal Securities Law prevent us from discussing that matter at all in this call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On then on the wind side I know you said you're expecting a big ramp in 2014.
Did you say that it could exceed levels that you guys saw in 2012? We said it could approach levels but quite frankly with the amount of activity that we've seen here recently it could exceed levels as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it mostly just because 2013 is more just the early planning phases because we didn't find out until so late that the extension had been -- the PTC had been renewed? Well there's a lot of doubt and question whether it was going to be renewed at all.
So I think there was a lot of people out there who never thought it would get renewed and then in it ended up getting renewed in fiscal cliff which I don't think anybody expected either.
I thought -- those that expected it to get renewed expected it to be early in the session.
So the fact that it got done in fiscal cliff I think caught almost everybody by surprise.
And it had everybody now scrambling to figure out what they're going to do which is why we feel -- we're seeing a ton of activity and we're very bullish but we're not sure if it hits late '13 or early '14.
And we will go to follow-up question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide us with an update on some of your large transmission projects? Just where they stand and particularly on Susquehanna to Roseland when you kind of expect to really ramp up on that? Just an update on the big project work would be great.
Sure.
So we're probably not going to get into the habit of specifically talking about a particular project on the call.
With that said if we ever had a problem on a project we would probably talk about it because it would impact our financial results.
I can say that all of our jobs are going well and are on schedule.
We are already active on that project specifically and working but really nothing to report in terms of anything outside of what we're expecting.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Jose Mas for any additional or closing remarks.
Well again thank you for joining us and participating today.
We look forward to our first quarter 2013 call and being able to update you on any further developments.
So thank you.
And again that concludes this call.
We would like to thank everyone for their participation today.
Good day and welcome to the MasTec's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on May 3 2013.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thanks Odette and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's first quarter earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release filings and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A reconciliation of all non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP measure can be found in our earnings press release our 10-Q or the Investor and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
Format of the call would be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of great things to talk about today so now I'll turn it over to Jose.
Jose? Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2013 first quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our first quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some first quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $919 million a 24% increase over the prior year's first quarter.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $79 million an increase of 61% over the prior year's first quarter.
EBITDA margins were 8.6% a 190-basis-point improvement.
Earnings per share were $0.27 up 93%.
And cash flow from operations was $32 million.
In summary we had a record revenue record EBITDA and a very strong start to the year.
Revenue growth was broad-based with growth across all of our segments with the exception of our renewable power generation business.
We are fortunate to be in industries where demand for our services is high.
We are experiencing increased opportunities across most of our segments and our focus today is executing on those opportunities over both the short and long term.
As a result we are heavily investing in our business and gearing up for what we believe to be a very active and exciting future.
With our recent upsized bond offering that Bob will discuss later in detail we further strengthened our balance sheet.
We are also seeing an increasing number of what we believe to be very good acquisition candidates.
While most of our growth has been organic over the last couple of years acquisitions give us the ability to increase our resources and better take advantage of those opportunities we are enjoying.
Now I would like to cover our segment data.
Our communications segment's revenue was $425 million for the quarter versus $389 million last year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 10.9% for the first quarter versus 8.4% in last year's first quarter.
The growth in this segment was led by our wireless business which was up 31% year-over-year.
Demand for our wireless services is high and we are experiencing growth from both our largest customer as well as new customers.
The wireless industry has experienced some growth in a number of areas including the deployment of LTE an increase in the number of new cellular towers being constructed and a shift in long-term maintenance focused more on tower climbs versus surface work.
Having a sizable and stable workforce focusing on tower climbing capabilities will be a key to success in this market.
We are investing in those capabilities and believe we are a market leader in that business today.
Our oil and gas pipeline segment had revenues of $319 million for the first quarter compared to revenues of $168 million in last year's first quarter or a 90% year-over-year increase.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 13.3% versus 7.5% in last year's first quarter.
We are off to a very good start.
Backlog was up sequentially from $220 million to $387 million.
We expect revenue growth to exceed 30% in 2013 versus 2012.
This growth will be driven by our continued success in the different shale plays along with increased activity in large-diameter long-haul pipeline construction.
For the second consecutive quarter Enbridge was our largest customer in this segment and also MasTec's third largest customer.
We expect them to continue to be our largest customer in this segment as well as the top 3 customer for MasTec for the full year.
During the first quarter we were awarded a contract to build a piece of the northern portion of Enterprise's ATEX Express Pipeline.
Work on that project began in the second quarter.
We continue to be very bullish on both the near- and long-term services demand related to oil and gas pipelines.
As Bob will cover later we continue to invest capital in new equipment and we are gearing our business up for what we believe to be increasing levels of demand.
Our electrical transmission segment had revenues of $85 million for the quarter versus $64 million last year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 4% versus 13.1% last year.
We expected margins to be down in the first quarter primarily for 2 reasons: the location of our current projects; and the fact that in the first quarter we were ramping up on 2 major projects.
We expect a revenue growth of at least 30% on a full year basis and double-digit EBITDA margins for the full year similar to those in 2012.
Backlog in this segment was $398 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $216 million in last year's first quarter.
We expect backlog in this segment to continue to grow.
Bidding activity is high and we feel we are well positioned within this market.
Similar to our oil and gas pipeline business we are increasing our capital investment in this segment to position ourselves to take advantage of the opportunities the market affords us.
As expected our power generation and industrial segment revenue contracted to $89 million in the first quarter versus $117 million in the prior year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was slightly negative versus a 4.2% EBITDA margin in last year's first quarter.
Backlog in this segment was down almost $450 million on a year-over-year basis.
As we have previously explained this is our most challenging business in 2013.
We expect full year revenues to be down over $300 million from 2012 primarily due to the reduction in renewables based on the delayed extension of the production tax credits for wind.
A challenge in rightsizing this business is the fact that the wind business is expected to increase again in 2014 due to the tax credit extensions negotiated during the fiscal cliff talks.
As a result we are incurring some extra levels of fixed costs and overhead in this business.
We expect this business to begin picking up again in the fourth quarter leading into what we believe will be a very active 2014.
We continue to aggressively diversify this business with other forms of power generation including gas-fired peaker plants and natural gas facilities work.
I'd like to briefly comment on guidance for the second quarter and full year.
For the second quarter our guidance assumes a reduction of revenues on a year-over-year basis of about $39 million.
That reduction is driven by a decrease of almost $145 million in our power generation or renewable business in the second quarter.
Outside the renewables we expect growth in every one of our segments.
We expect second quarter EBITDA margins to be about 10.8% a significant improvement compared to 8.3% EBITDA margins in the second quarter of 2012.
For the full year we now expect revenues to be $4 billion or the high end of our previously stated guidance compared to $3.7 billion in 2012 despite a reduction of over $300 million in our power generation renewable segment.
We are raising our full year EBITDA guidance to $425 million or 10.6% full year EBITDA margins compared to 8.9% in 2012.
To recap we are off to a great start.
We've got strong backlog to support what we believe will be another record year of revenue and earnings.
We're investing in our business for both short- and long-term growth.
And quite frankly we've never had the number or the quality of opportunities we are now enjoying.
I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Campbell for our financial review.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover Q1 financial results and 2013 guidance.
And I'll also cover cash flow liquidity our capital structure and our recent bond offering.
Consistent with prior calls when I cover our financial results and our guidance we will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and earnings.
A full reconciliation from GAAP results to continuing operations adjusted results is included in our 10-Q in our press release and on our website.
The only adjustment to our first quarter 2013 continuing operations results was to add back the $5.6 million pre-tax loss on debt extinguishment related to retiring our old senior notes.
The debt extinguishment loss was $3.4 million after tax which was a $0.04 negative impact on diluted earnings per share.
As you may recall our guidance specifically excluded this cost.
Let me share a few thoughts about the economics of issuing our new senior notes and retiring the old senior notes.
In the first quarter we upsized our senior note offering and sold $400 million of new 4 7/8% notes due in 2023 and retired $150 million of 7 5/8% notes due in 2017.
The long-term economics of our senior notes refinancing are just terrific.
We obtained a large amount of long-term debt capital with a 275-basis-point interest rate improvement and we extended our senior note maturities by 6 years.
Given our organic growth and our acquisitive nature we expect to use the new debt capital over time and of course we expect to deploy it with very good returns.
However we may not fully deploy the additional capital this year.
And we for sure will incur higher interest costs while we carry the additional debt.
The interest costs of additional debt is $6 million to $7 million or $0.04 to $0.05 a share and it is reflected in our new guidance.
I'll talk a little more about the bond offering later when I discuss our capital structure.
We first reported results by segment at year end and let me give you a brief refresher of our 4 primary segments.
Our largest segment is communications and it includes our telecom wireline business our wireless business and our install-to-the-home business.
Our oil and gas segment includes petroleum and natural gas pipeline and related facilities.
Electrical transmission does transmission work and also substation work.
Power generation and industrials offers a very wide variety of services including the construction of natural gas turbine and other conventional power plants wind and solar power generation and they also build oil and gas facilities.
This is the segment that is doing the pumping station work for the southern portion of the Keystone pipeline.
And power gen and industrial also does various other types of industrial construction including building oil gas and liquids processing and treatment plants.
Before I get into my detailed remarks here are some Q1 headlines.
First quarter revenue was up 24% from last year with 19% organic or nonacquisition growth.
First quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $79 million was up 61% from last year and our guidance was $72 million.
Continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS in the first quarter was $0.27 compared to $0.14 last year a 93% increase and our guidance was $0.24.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 8.6% on the first quarter up from 6.7% last year.
That's a 190-basis-point improvement.
We have adjusted full year 2013 guidance to revenue of $4 billion continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $425 million continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 10.6% and continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS of $1.80.
Included in the $1.80 EPS is a $0.04 to $0.05 negative impact from higher interest expense related to carrying higher levels of debt due to our recently issued $400 million of senior notes.
And finally our capital structure and liquidity are just in great shape particularly after the very successful $400 million bond offering in March.
Now let me get into the details of our results.
Q1 2013 revenue was $919 million up 24% from last year which was pretty broad-based growth and our organic or nonacquisition growth was 19%.
Our oil and gas business was up $151 million or 90% overall with 68% organic growth.
Communications grew $36 million or 9% led by growth in wireless which had 31% growth while install-to-the-home and wireline were flattish.
And electrical transmission grew by $20 million or 31%.
As expected our power generation and industrial business was down 24% as a result of wind tax credit uncertainty through year end.
While the tax credits have now been extended for projects started by year-end 2013 most of our 2013 wind construction activity is expected to be in the second half of the year followed by likely high levels of activity in 2014.
First quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue was 86.2% compared to 88.3% a year ago.
That's a 210-basis-point improvement driven primarily by oil and gas and wireless within the communications segment.
Offsetting the overall cost of revenue improvement were higher electrical transmission costs which were expected and caused by weather and ramping up several projects.
And also we had higher costs as a percent of revenue in power generation and industrial mostly caused by low utilization levels.
We expect that electrical transmission costs as a percent of revenue should improve significantly during the rest of the year.
As Jose mentioned we expect transmission EBITDA margins to be at a -- at double-digit levels for the full year similar to last year.
And remember that transmission EBITDA margins were our highest segment margins last year.
Depreciation and amortization expense was 3.5% of revenue in Q1 compared to 2.8% last year primarily reflecting the impact of higher levels of capital expenditures and capital leases in oil and gas and in electrical transmission.
We continue to increase our investment levels in oil and gas and electrical transmission in anticipation of greater amounts of work in the second half of 2013 and beyond.
First quarter general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue were up from 5.1% a year ago to 5.3% this year.
All of the increase came from increasing our bad debt reserve to cover any potential customer billing and collections issues.
Excluding bad debt expense G&amp;A as a percent of revenue was flat.
Q1 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $79 million which was up 61% from $49 million in 2012.
Q1 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin improved 190 basis points versus last year as cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization improved by 210 basis points and the rest of the P&amp;L had modest ups and downs.
Q1 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.27 compared with the $0.14 we earned a year ago.
For the first quarter of 2013 the 10 largest customers were: AT&amp;T was 18% of total revenue; DIRECTV was 16% of total revenue; Enbridge a pipeline customer was 12% of total revenue; DCP Midstream a pipeline customer was 8%; Chesapeake Midstream Partners also a pipeline customer was 4%; Isolux U.S.A.
an electrical transmission customer was 3% of total revenue.
We had 4 customers each at 2% of total revenue: PPL Corporation an electrical transmission customer; Basin Electric Power Coop and TransCanada both power generation customers; and Pembina Pipeline a pipeline customer in Canada.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q1 include 1 telecom customer 1 satellite television customer 4 oil and gas customers 2 electrical transmission customers and 2 power generation customers.
Note that we no longer have any customers over 20% of total revenue and we have executed nicely on our strategy of reducing our DIRECTV concentration which peaked at 47% a few years ago and is now down to 16%.
Our revenue is split between onetime individual construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenue.
For Q1 51% of our revenue came from master service agreements or similar customers and 49% came from onetime individual construction projects.
It should be noted that with many of our customers we do a significant number of repeat follow-on individual projects.
I just wanted to highlight that even though our onetime individual project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from master service agreements and similar contracts.
At quarter end our backlog from continuing operations was $3.5 billion.
The comparable number from Q1 last year was $3.1 billion and $3.4 billion at the end of 2012.
As always our backlog numbers are only for 18 months and they include an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue from master service agreements and other similar contracts.
You can see on our new segment data that at quarter end we had a high level of backlog about $400 million for electrical transmission where we have publicly commented on 4 fairly recent large awards.
In the first quarter we had significant sequential revenue growth in oil and gas and at the same time we had very good growth in oil and gas backlog.
Oil and gas revenue grew sequentially by over 30% and backlog grew from $220 million at year end to $387 million at the end of the first quarter.
We continue to be very bullish about growth in oil and gas and we expect to see a significant build in backlog over the rest of the year especially for long-haul work with a significant amount of the work starting in 2013.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet.
Liquidity calculated as cash plus availability on our bank credit line was $590 million compared to $506 million at year end and $493 million for Q1 a year ago.
The improvement in liquidity comes from the net cash remaining from our $400 million senior notes offering which refinanced $150 million of old notes and paid off the entire $134 million balance of our bank credit facility.
Our Q1 cash flow from operations was $32 million compared with $44 million last year.
Earnings were clearly better this year but cash tax payments were larger and accounts receivable days sales outstanding were worse which hurt our cash flow.
Our Q1 accounts receivables days sales outstanding or DSOs for continuing operations were 88 days which is somewhat higher than where we think we can operate over the long term.
But as I've said in the past our DSOs can bounce around a little based on individual big project payment terms and especially the ups and downs of job start-ups and job closeouts.
Regarding our spending on equipment we spent $26 million in cash CapEx in Q1 compared to $14 million in Q1 last year.
In addition we added $38 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases in the first quarter compared to $4 million a year ago.
The total of our cash CapEx and capital leases in financed equipment was $63 million in Q1 compared to $18 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Q2 should also have a pretty high level of cash CapEx capital leases and financed equipment purchases and then the spending should be much lighter in the second half of the year.
On a full year basis we'll probably spend about $100 million in cash CapEx and maybe another $50 million to $60 million in capital leases and financed equipment.
As we have previously said we currently believe that we should have high levels of growth in oil and gas and in electrical transmission for the next few years.
As our confidence level regarding sustainable growth has risen we have increased our investment in equipment to support our anticipated growth.
We see a great window of opportunity for the next few years and we're getting ready for it.
We believe that the P&amp;L benefit for our ramp-up in equipment spending will primarily be seen in 2014 and beyond.
Therefore we are incurring a modest P&amp;L hit this year in order to do the right thing for the business longer-term.
Now let me brag for a moment about our capital structure.
We recently visited the rating agencies and were upgraded to Ba2 by Moody's and reaffirmed as BB by S&amp;P reflecting improvements on many fronts at MasTec.
With a much improved operational history behind us and a very positive market outlook ahead of us we went to market in early March to replace our $150 million 7 5/8% senior notes which would've matured in 2017.
These notes became callable at a reasonable premium in February and we went to market to lock in a very attractive interest rate and to extend our maturities.
We were very pleased with the high demand for our offering.
We actually had about $2 billion in orders so we were very oversubscribed which allowed us to upsize the deal from $350 million to $400 million and lock in a 4 7/8% interest rate joining a very small group of companies with our credit rating that have ever locked in 10-year debt with an interest rate below 5%.
Price age from the senior notes offering retired the old senior notes paid off all of our bank revolver and gave us about $105 million in net cash proceeds.
After the senior notes transaction at quarter end we had $886 million in equity and $735 million of total debt and only $625 million in net debt that's net of cash and with guidance of $425 million of 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA.
Therefore all of our balance sheet and credit ratios remain in very good shape.
For our full year guidance we currently expect revenue to come in at the upper end of our prior range at about $4 billion.
Additionally we are increasing our estimate for continuing operations adjusted EBITDA to $425 million and fixing our continued operations adjusted diluted earnings per share estimate at $1.80 including the additional $0.04 to $0.05 a share interest cost of carrying the larger amount of senior notes.
The 2013 revenue projection represents a 7% increase over $3.7 billion for 2012 which we think is pretty good given that power generation and industrial revenue will likely be down over $300 million due to lower wind revenue.
On the other hand oil and gas electrical transmission and communication collectively should grow at least 20% this year.
Our 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA projection of $425 million is a 28% increase over continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $332 million last year.
The 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.6% which compares to continuing operations adjusted margin of 8.9% last year.
And continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.80 is a 20% increase over continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.50 last year.
As I mentioned earlier our guidance does not include the $5.6 million of loss on debt extinguishment which is $3.4 million after tax or $0.04 per diluted share.
Our 2013 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39%.
Cash taxes are estimated to be about the same as book taxes in 2013.
We currently expect an increase in depreciation expense from $80 million in 2012 to about $117 million in 2013 as a result of higher CapEx and capital leases and a little more front-end loading than we had previously forecasted.
We expect an increase in interest expense from $37 million in 2012 to about $44 million this year and that's a $0.05 a share impact.
Although the interest rate on the new senior notes is very favorable we have added additional debt to take advantage of the opportunity to get $400 million of long-term debt capital at a sub 5% rate.
So this will cause a modest 2013 P&amp;L drag.
As I mentioned earlier we will also have a modest P&amp;L drag in 2013 as we ramp up our equipment spending in anticipation of the opportunities that we see in oil and gas and in electrical transmission.
In both cases incurring a modest P&amp;L drag in 2013 is just the right thing to do today to build and develop our company for long-term success.
Our estimate for full year share count for diluted EPS is about 84.5 million shares.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
My final comment about our 2013 full year guidance is about margins.
The continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.6%.
Our full year margin estimate looks reasonable.
Q1 is by far our seasonally weakest quarter and we hit 8.6% and our Q2 guidance is for 10.8% and the third quarter is normally our best quarter.
We currently project Q2 revenue of about $950 million compared to $989 million last year.
The revenue decrease reflects the year-over-year impact of much lower power generation and industrial revenue.
Power gen and industrial revenue might be down about $145 million in Q2 with much lower wind revenue this year.
On the other hand oil and gas electrical transmission and communications should collectively be up about 13%.
We project continuing operations EBITDA of $103 million compared to $82 million last year an increase of 26%.
The Q2 continuing operations EBITDA margin is expected to be 10.8% compared to 8.3% a year ago.
And we project Q2 continuing operations diluted EPS of $0.42 compared to $0.38 last year an increase of 11%.
As Jose said we anticipate that Q2 should be a solid quarter with down revenue but with good margin expansion.
And we further project that the second half of the year should be much stronger with significant revenue increases in oil and gas and in electrical transmission and in wireless with improving margins.
Our earnings guidance excludes the loss on debt extinguishment related to our recent successful debt refinancing and the impact of any acquisitions that we might make this year.
In summary Q1 was an excellent quarter in terms of revenue and earnings and better than our earlier expectations.
Therefore we're off to a good start for 2013.
2013 is all about execution and significant margin expansion.
We currently expect another record year for MasTec in terms of revenue and earnings.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take your first question from Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jose I have 2 questions in 20 parts I think but I'll try and keep it limited.
Can you talk about your wireless business? The growth was impressive actually.
And is it -- I mean can you talk about your penetration into AT&amp;T and also into non-AT&amp;T? And I thought it was interesting that you put Samsung as a key driver of your strong wireless growth.
So if maybe you could mention that too.
It's an exciting business.
It's an exciting market.
All of the major carriers are very aggressively ramping up their LTE programs.
With LTE there's a lot of other things that are happening in the industry in terms of new sites being constructed.
The wireless services industry is changing in that a lot of the work is now happening at the top of a tower which means that having tower climbing crews is the most critical factor in being successful in that business.
We've been working on that for years now.
We've made some small acquisitions to really bolster our capabilities around that.
And today we think we're definitely a market leader as it relates to that for all customers right? So whether you're AT&amp;T or Sprint or T-Mobile or Verizon or whoever needs the work done we think we're a very viable alternative and a key one.
And over time we think we're going to be a significant player in everybody's build plan.
We think the market's going to continue to grow for a long time.
We think that the maintenance component of the market is going to change long-term because it's all going to be tower climbing which traditionally it hasn't been.
So we think the business has great fundamentals great long-term fundamentals.
We're gearing up.
We're well positioned.
We think our business with both our existing and our new customers is going to continue to grow over time and we're really excited about that business.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's fair to say that most of the growth is share gains versus the market? I mean what we see of the market is growing -- AT&amp;T CapEx is growing this year but not robustly I would say.
I think with AT&amp;T specifically yes we're having share gains.
But as an industry you're seeing a lot more capital flowing to the industry because you've got all carriers beginning a rollout plan of LTE where you haven't had that in the past.
So there are carriers that are rapidly expanding their CapEx and then there are other carriers that obviously have big CapEx plans but they're not expanding as rapidly and we're having success with both.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So about transmission maybe your confidence level Jose around the transmission backlog growth that you mentioned and your ability to get margins back up into the double digits versus where they were in the quarter.
Maybe you could talk about whether some of the weather issues you experienced in 1Q have already gone away in 2Q.
Is it just as you transition to spring things get better and that's kind of the way it is? Couple of things.
First our first quarter transmission margins were as expected.
We didn't perform below what our internal expectations were.
We knew we were going to have a tougher quarter in Q1.
We knew it was going to be a tough comp.
When you look at our transmission business the challenge that we face right is we've gone through unbelievable growth.
We've probably grown at a faster clip than anybody in the industry.
But in relative size to the rest of us it's still a fairly small entity right? It's a sub $500 million of our business.
Because of that it's going to be highly impacted by very large project awards.
So when we're starting a multi-hundred million dollar project it impacts our business in a greater way because it's smaller.
And as we get more of those obviously you build a bigger base the business gets bigger and it doesn't affect you as much.
In Q1 the projects that we're going to be working on in 2013 happen to be in tougher geographies for weather early in the year.
So weather did impact us because of where the geographic components of those projects were.
Again that was expected.
And as we continue to grow our base and add more projects that's going to begin to even out and really balance itself as the year plays out and that's what we expect.
For the full year we expect margins similar to those of 2012.
We think that bidding activity has been strong for us for a long time.
We're excited about the awards that we've gotten.
We've got a lot of things on the plate that we think might happen for us.
So we're very bullish on additional backlog expansion.
We're very bullish on getting the projects that we have under our belt underway and really performing on those and we think that's going to begin to flow through our margins in Q2 and for the balance of the year.
And we expect to have a great year in transmission.
We'll move next to Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First on the pipeline side.
Looking at -- it was definitely nice to hear about this ATEX Express award.
First I was wondering given that it's such a long line if you could comment on how big northern portion is for you guys and in miles? And how long do you think that project will last? And then secondly you sounded confident that Enbridge will remain one of your top customers this year.
Can you discuss the nature of that work? Is it more midstream type small project activity or if there's some large project work involved with Enbridge as well? So ATEX is a large pipeline that goes all the way from the Marcellus area all the way into the south.
Some of that line is actually an existing line that's part of -- a new portion of that line is being built that will feed into that line.
So I think the northern portion is somewhere between 300 to 400 miles and we got a piece of that So it's an exciting opportunity.
It's a project that we will complete in 2013.
So it's a fairly quick book and burn although it's long-haul pipeline construction.
As it relates to Enbridge the work is all large diameter-long pipes so we're not working on -- this isn't a shale business.
This is a long-haul pipeline construction business.
We're not going to get into the specifics of the projects.
Obviously they've been a top customer of ours for 2 consecutive quarters now.
We expect them to remain there.
They have significant plans not just for 2013 but well into the next couple of years they have announced a number of different pipelines that they're going to be constructing adding on to and building.
They've been a good customer of ours for a long time.
We've performed well for them and we believe that if we continue to perform we're going to have as much as we can handle with Enbridge.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And my second question just given all this investment that you've been making in equipment can you give us a sense of how much of this equipment will be coming online in '13 that you'll be able to use versus -- I know most of the benefit is falling into '14.
But if you could just maybe try to help give us a sense of the pace of that equipment? How quickly is it coming online for you guys? Sure Noelle.
I think it's happening right and I think a lot of it has happened.
So if you look at Q4 depreciation expense ramped up and a lot of that had to do with the equipment that we bought in Q4.
If you look at our depreciation expense for Q1 it was up almost $10 million year-over-year so a lot of that hit in Q1.
Bob talked about our additional spend in Q2.
So when you look at Q2 our depreciation expense on a year-over-year basis will be up about $12 million.
And then you'll see that number begin to flatten out.
So our Q3 and Q4 expectations around depreciation are Q3 will probably be the higher watermark because it will be the first quarter where we've got 3 months of all of the equipment that we purchased.
But we'll actually see in our expectation a decrease in depreciation in Q4 as some of the existing purchases that we made start to come off.
I mean all in all our equipment is depreciating at about a 6-year life so it's probably a little bit conservative.
And most of that equipment will be in place in the first 6 months.
Obviously the revenue associated with that will not be.
So while we'll be taking the hit earlier on in the year as those revenues come online in the second half of '13 and beyond it will begin to offset those expenses that we've been taking.
We'll move on to Alex Rygiel from Friedman Billings and Ramsey.
Research Division</strong> Jose you mentioned that the outlook for oil and gas you're hopeful that you can get call it 30% growth in 2013 versus 2012.
But I'm trying to figure out where you're maybe being most conservative in your model and it seems to be it might be with that forecast.
Because basically if we just take your revenue from the first quarter in oil and gas we assume that revenue number is the same in 2Q 3Q and 4Q you're going to get to that up to 30%.
But your commentary sounds a lot more bullish.
The recent award would suggest that revenues are going to grow in oil and gas and the margin there -- I mean clearly it's your best-margin business.
So am I right by assuming this is maybe the single business that's got the greatest upside to your guidance? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And when you think about growth in 2014 are you positioning the company today to grow at 10% or continue to grow very significantly over and above that? Alex I think it's going to have to do with the market.
I think the market is going to give us the opportunity to grow especially within that segment in particular a lot more than 10%.
You're right on your earlier commentary.
So can we grow the business 40% 50% this year? The answer is maybe right depending on when projects get awarded when projects start.
Depending on how much we grow it next year off of that base will obviously depend on the kind of growth rates that we can experience in the future.
But we're not building and making the investments that we're making for what we think will be a 10% growth business next year.
But obviously we think we can grow with it at strong double digits.
Now overall as a company the kind of guidance that we've given in the past is we think we can grow the business at an organic level at close to double digits.
Some of those businesses will grow faster than others and obviously between transmission oil and gas pipeline and wireless they're going to carry the growth of this business for the foreseeable future and even renewables next year with some of the other ones growing less at a more moderate clip.
Research Division</strong> And if I can follow up real quick.
As it relates to the renewables business it sort of sounded like you were going to carry some excess expense and body and assets waiting for 2014 to kind of come back.
But if I remember correctly that wasn't the highest margin business back in 2011 and '12.
So I don't want to say why not just exit it? But sort of why carry that expense if the margin profile might not be as good as other segments? So couple of things.
One the excess cost and burden that we're carrying there has a lot to do with G&amp;A so you'll see that our G&amp;A spiked up a little bit in the first quarter.
Some of that was due to as Bob spoke about the bad debt expense.
But a portion of that was also some of the SG&amp;A at the businesses in particular in that area and that's going to keep SG&amp;A a little bit higher than last year as a percentage just because we're going to be carrying some extra resources.
So it's a great question Alex in terms of why is it that we want to be in renewables long-term.
And I think we've taken a very macro view of that business and we've talked a little bit about it in the past.
But our goal is to be a power generation contractor.
Part of it is renewables but the reality is that we want to penetrate the other parts of power generation.
The work that we do in renewables and the customers that we do it for in renewables will be the same customers that we try to build out our power generation business with.
So the reason that we continue to want to be in renewables is because the relationships that we're building due to our renewables business we think is the one that's going to open up doors for us long-term on other power generation service offerings which is where we want to be.
So it's important for us to serve those clients because that's where our long-term goal is of getting within those clients other pieces of the power generation business.
We'll move next to William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate the color in the Q regarding the segment breakdown.
Want to start there first in terms of your -- if you would care to provide possibly some targets to each one of these segments in terms of margin targets for '13.
And then my second question will deal with the backlog.
Is it safe to assume that pricing in the backlog is better than say a year ago? And how is that trending outside of power gen? Okay so let's start with your margin question.
What we've been saying all along is we expected our communication margins to continue to grow in '13 versus '12 primarily driven by wireless.
I think we saw that in Q1 and I think we'll see that continuing as the balance of the year progresses.
So we expect '13 to be up in margins relative to '12 in communications.
As we look at our oil and gas business we spent a lot of commentary last year talking about our troubled projects and what that would have meant to margins without them.
So I can expect that you're going to have a full year of flow-through in our oil and gas business as if we wouldn't have had troubled projects so we expect strong EBITDA growth in that business.
In our transmission business we're expecting comparable margins to 2012.
And in our renewables business we're expecting margins to be down because of utilization levels.
And I think when you throw that all in it kind of comes in to our guidance of the 10.6% versus the 8.9% last year.
And I think that's the puts and takes from it.
As it relates to backlog our backlog is growing particularly in our oil and gas business had nice backlog growth.
We  expect to have continued backlog growth in our transmission business.
We've been positively talking about pricing in both of those markets for a long time.
And I think that in the case of oil and gas pipeline you've already seen it begin to affect margins.
I think you'll see it affect margins in transmissions as the year plays out.
So we think that our backlog is strong and more importantly the jobs within our backlog all the margin profile that we expect and we want and that's why we're guiding to the numbers that we're guiding to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly on the acquisition front you called that out are these potentially going to be more bolt-ons or are we looking for new technologies to integrate into some of these segments? Well 2 things.
One we've been very vocal and very clear about our acquisition strategy in the past the type of company that we want to buy the type of multiple that we want to pay.
That will be our mantra.
We're not get away from what's made us successful so you can expect that we're going to buy midsized companies.
We're going to buy them at aggressive multiples.
We're going to buy businesses that we think we can help grow substantially which is something that I think we've been able to demonstrate over the last few years.
So I don't think you should expect us to stop or to do something different than what's really gotten us here.
And two we're going to do it within the businesses that we're in.
So we're not necessarily looking at penetrating new markets like the acquisition that we made last year.
Sometime we're looking at having some more verticals within the markets that we service.
But quite frankly there's so much opportunity in what we do and we're not everywhere.
We're not geographically dispersed enough.
We think there's a lot of add-on that we can do and help bolster those companies with added opportunities that we can bring to them.
So that should be your expectation.
Moving on to Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on pipeline.
The enterprise award is pretty notable in terms of size and its NGL/ethane focus.
Jose if you look at your opportunity set of potential awards over the next let's say 3 months 4 months is there a sort of orientation in terms of whether they are more natural gas NGL-oriented or whether they're crude-oriented is it the sort of spread across the board.
And is rail as an alternative impacting maybe the fees of some of the crude opportunities you have? So lot of questions.
When you look at our pipeline business we're doing well over $1 billion now.
So in essence we're impacted by all of the different forms of natural resources right so whether it's straight gas or NGL or oil.
Now we're working on all forms of pipelines and they maybe different in one shale may have more one than the other.
So I think today we've got great visibility and we're working on all forms of it and we're going after all forms of it.
So there are opportunities in each of those areas and we're going to pursue them all.
So we're not necessarily looking at one more than the other.
Obviously some of the larger projects could be more of one than the other but today we're looking at them all.
As it relates to rail there's no question when you look at what's happened in Bakken and the effect that rails had on the Bakken shale and the lack of pipelines there.
I think over time that will change but today rail is a huge method of exporting a lot or moving a lot of those resources out of the Bakken.
And I don't think it makes financial sense so I think over time pipelines make a lot more sense.
And I think we'll see that.
So yes it -- I mean is it slowing down the rate of pipelines? I don't know the answer to that but it's definitely a way that people are getting around the need for pipelines today but I think it's cost-prohibitive in the long term and pipelines are going to be required to do it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
My second question is in regards to acquisitions.
You talked briefly about that to an earlier question.
But as you grow larger which is great and you've done a phenomenal job of delivering the midsize means also a little larger than it was maybe 3 4 years ago.
And your footprint around the U.S.
and your traditional market has grown.
So if you were to think a little outside of your comfort zone as adjacent market would it be fair to say if I were to look at the market most adjacent to yourselves? You've talked about power generation.
You might be going on to the processing side.
Are those fair markets actually within your current capabilities? So at the end of the day there's two things we look at.
One is the market opportunity and two is the actual target opportunity.
As we look at the target opportunity a it needs to be in an area where we think there's a greater market opportunity.
But more importantly what do we think we can do with that target? So how do we help that target significantly increase its business improve its margins and ultimately be able to buy it at an attractive level and turn it into a big win when we can grow revenues grow margins and get into it at a fair multiple? So I think it plays a little bit into both of those.
There are definitely areas that we want to continue to grow into.
So that's part of it but it's more driven by the actual target and what we ultimately think we can do.
So midsize when I think of midsize yes midsize is growing obviously.
If you look at some of the last few acquisitions we've made they're generally getting a little bit bigger.
But at the end of the day it's not about the size of the business when we buy it.
It's about the size of the business that we think we can make it.
And as we buy these companies that we're buying we think there's substantial opportunities for growth and that's what really excites us and interests us about these opportunities.
Liam Burke from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You're building up a fair amount of capital on the debt deal.
This year based on your earnings guidance you should generate some healthy free cash flow.
On the other side you've got decent visibility on projects and you mentioned earlier that you're a disciplined acquirer.
You won't overpay.
In terms of the amount of capital you anticipate laying out could you give us a sense of the return requirements you're looking at vis-a-vis your cost of capital? Well again we've been very disciplined.
Rate of return on our acquisitions has been off the charts and that's our expectation.
So it's not about -- we're not -- when we buy a company we're not looking at savings of synergies.
We're not looking at multiples off of some future cash flow.
We're looking at multiples of today.
So we think we're buying right and then our job is to grow those businesses and turn them into home runs right? I mean we're not looking for singles and doubles.
We're looking to worst case hit a single or double and best case be in positions to really do a lot better than that.
I think the typical size of our acquisitions have gotten a little bit bigger right? I think that in that hundred million dollar purchase price range is where you should expect us to continue to play.
And again it's got to be the right target with the right fundamentals and that gives us the opportunities to grow those businesses and get in over the long-term what would be a very very very attractive multiple.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the project side.
I mean as Bob highlighted between capital leases and CapEx this year it's in an anticipation beyond '13 of projects are you still looking at these projects as having to generate a minimum return similar to where you'd look at an acquisition? Yes and obviously they're different.
The capital that we're buying -- there's 2 ways to grow right? One is you grow strictly through acquisitions which we haven't done because most of our growth has been organic.
But over time you've got to fund that organic growth.
And when we look at -- we always think that growing our business organically will give us far better returns than growing the business acquisitively.
But again they're not mutually exclusive.
We can do both.
So we're investing on our business for organic growth.
We expect to invest in our business via acquisitions and really continue what we think is going to be a very strong growth profile.
Adam Thalhimer from BBT Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jose can you talk a little bit about with regards to the tower-climbing crews the opportunities for you to switch some employees from maybe climbing wind towers to climbing cell towers? Well part of climbing towers is the fear of being very up -- very high up in the air and the wind business is obviously down significantly in the U.S.
not just with MasTec but with really all of the major contractors.
And tower climbing in the wireless side is an excellent avenue for those employees.
It's a great place to work.
There's no question that they need to be trained differently for it and there's different nuances on the job.
But their work skill the skill set and the characteristics are very similar so we have moved a lot of people from our wind business into our wireless business and we're actively recruiting people from within that industry into our wireless business because we think it's a short training process.
So it's absolutely an area where we're looking to increase our resource base.
Research Division</strong> And I also wanted to ask about electric transmission.
Jose does it feel like that the [indiscernible] opportunities there continue to accelerate or does it just feel like it's so good that we're just kind of plateauing at a very healthy level for the whole industry? I think we're definitely at a very healthy level for the whole industry.
We did see it increase a little bit from our commentary at the end of the year to our commentary now where we're actually seeing a little bit more in terms of the total opportunity size.
But again we expect it to be a very healthy market long-term and we think there's plenty of work out there for everybody and it's going to be a very very good next couple of years in that business.
Up next John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the -- Jose on the transmission side of the business.
I mean you had great success in communications I mean across the board.
But how long before that could be a billion dollar business? And do you have to invest a lot more to get there? So John that's our goal.
We've been saying that we're not in this business to be a sub $500 million business.
We want to be in businesses in MasTec that can approach $1 billion right? Really today our only billion dollar business is in theory is our oil and gas business.
We need to win more work.
We think we're well in our way of getting there.
We're not going to get there in the next year but we think we're going to have substantial growth there and we think within the next couple of years that business will absolutely be at least approaching that number.
Research Division</strong> But can you do that organically? We think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then the other thing just on the communications side of the business.
I know you've seen a lot of growth out of the wireless side of it.
But there seems to be more interest potentially over the next couple of years into upgrading them the in-ground business and especially fiber connections and things like that.
Is that an opportunity for MasTec? It is.
That's where we started.
MasTec was started in the wireline telecommunications industry.
We still have a significant presence there.
There's been a lot obviously in the last few months from different carriers about their plans.
So do I think it's an opportunity? The answer is yes.
Has that opportunity hit in yet? The answer is no but it's coming and we will be a player in it.
We'll determine at the time as we see the opportunities and the scale of the opportunities we will decide how to play in them.
But it's absolutely -- it's an improving market.
No question about it.
We'll go to a follow-up from Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up question is just trying to understand the underutilization in the wind business.
Can you walk us through by quarter when you think that's going to be most severe in the second quarter and that gets a little bit better as we get to the back half of the year.
Can you just help us out a little bit there? The 2 challenging quarters for us are going to be second and third so we expect revenues to be down about $145 million in the second quarter.
When you look at year-over-year in the third quarter it's probably a similar number or maybe just slightly higher.
And then a much better number in Q4 we'll still be down in Q4 but we'll be down a lot less.
And then with the comps that we'll have this year versus next year '14 should be a fairly easy comp year for that business compared to '13.
But the high watermark is going to be somewhere between Q2 and Q3.
So both Q2 and Q3 are going to be affected greatly and then Q4 it should really soften out.
And again because of some of the commentary around our transmission and pipeline work we're in a much better position to offset that decline in Q3 than we are in Q2.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on the operating profit line where you had a slight loss in the first quarter do you think it could be maybe a little bit worse than the second quarter and third? I don't think it's going to drastically be different because the actual -- we've done a good job of rightsizing the operational side of the business.
We're carrying a little bit of excess CapEx -- I'm sorry of excess G&amp;A.
But outside of that we'll manage it okay.
We expect it to be a little bit worse here going forward but not much worse.
Your last question in the queue will come from John Rogers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up Jose or Bob.
The bad debt expense what was that? I know it was a modest amount a little less than $3 million and is there a significant debt there? No.
I mean we routinely quarterly of course take a look at our bad debt reserve and we do it on a global basis.
We look at all of the accounts.
We look at the aging and we felt like we needed to add to it.
We're also a larger company and still a relatively modest amount of total bad debt reserve.
If you look at the numbers I think it's about $15 million as a company.
And for those of you who may not have seen it we added about $3 million to our bad debt reserve.
And it's more of a look at overall than like account-specific.
We do look at specific accounts of course but then we make a global judgment.
So it was just good accounting good solid accounting.
That does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Jose Mas for any closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you everybody for participating and we look forward to updating you on our next call.
Again that does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the MasTec Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on August 2 2013.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc please go ahead.
Thank you Mary and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's second quarter earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measure not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release our 10-K or in the Investors and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and CFO.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by a financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We had another great quarter and a lot of good things to talk about today so I'd like to turn over to Jose.
Jose? Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2013 second quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our second quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some second quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $978 million.
Adjusted EBITDA was $110 million an increase of 31% over the prior year second quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins were 11.2% a 280 basis point improvement.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.47 and backlog was up nearly $700 million sequentially on a number of large awards that I'll cover later.
In summary we had an excellent quarter.
Revenue was up double digits across all of our segments with the exception of our renewable power generation business which was as expected down considerably.
Adjusted EBITDA margins were up 280 basis points year-over-year and up 230 basis points sequentially.
The improvement in margins were driven by increased profitability in both our pipeline and wireless markets.
In spite of our strong financial performance for the quarter the highlight of the second quarter was the number of large projects we were awarded.
Our pipeline group was awarded an approximately $400 million project from our largest pipeline customer.
The project starts in the third quarter and should complete in early 2014.
Our Electrical Transmission group was awarded 2 large projects during the quarter which totaled over $400 million in value.
The first project is from MidAmerican Energy in Iowa called the Multi-Value Projects 3 and 4.
These lines cover 191 miles traversing portions of 9 Iowa counties.
The second project was a 112-mile line for Arizona Public Service in Arizona.
While only the expected 18-month revenue burn-off is included in backlog these projects helped drive a nearly $700 million sequential increase to backlog.
As we have previously stated we are in the midst of enjoying some great opportunities in a number of the markets we serve.
We have invested heavily in the equipment and people to execute on those opportunities and the increase in our backlog is a reflection of the success that we are enjoying.
Now I would like to cover our segment data.
Our Communications segment revenue was $497 million for the quarter versus $432 million last year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 12.8% for the second quarter versus 10.9% in last year's second quarter.
The growth in this segment was led by our wireless business which was up 43% year-over-year and up 33% sequentially from the first quarter.
Revenue growth in our wireless business has been stronger than expected and has been driven by both growth from AT&amp;T as well as our ability to diversify our customer base.
We expect wireless revenues to exceed $900 million in 2013.
While we have enjoyed strong growth over the last year there are a significant number of new opportunities we are pursuing.
Demand for our wireless services continues to be high and we expect that demand to accelerate over the course of the next few years.
We have invested and will continue to invest in the opening of new training facilities the hiring and training of personnel and the equipment and systems necessary to provide our customers with the resources they will need to complete their deployments in a cost-effective timely and safe manner.
Having these resources will be a key to the continued growth in our wireless business and we are very confident in our ability to be a market leader in this business.
Our installation-to-the-home business was up 2% year-over-year and we are excited about DIRECTV's recent acquisition of LifeShield that gets them into the home security business.
We continue to believe that home security presents an excellent opportunity for long-term growth for our business.
Our Oil and Gas pipeline segment had revenues of $297 million for the second quarter compared to revenues of $264 million in last year's second quarter or a 13% year-over-year increase.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 17.2% versus 6% in last year's second quarter.
Backlog was up sequentially from $387 million to $808 million.
The increase in backlog was driven by the award I covered earlier the added backlog associated with the acquisition of Big Country and a number of other small awards during the second quarter.
We expect pipeline segment revenues in 2013 to be approximately $1.5 billion compared to $959 million last year or a 50% year-over-year increase.
This growth will be driven by our continued success in the different shale plays along with increased activity in large-diameter long-haul pipeline construction.
Again this quarter Enbridge is our largest customer in this segment and is also MasTec's third largest customer.
Also during the quarter we acquired Big Country Services a Canadian pipeline and facility contractor with a presence throughout Canada and also in the U.S.
portion of the Bakken shale.
The acquisition significantly enhances our competitive capabilities in both markets and positions us well for future growth.
We continue to be very bullish on both the near- and long-term demand for services related to Oil and Gas pipelines.
Our Electrical Transmission segment had revenues of $119 million for the quarter versus $89 million last year an increase of 33%.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 9.7% up sequentially from 4% in the first quarter but down from last year's 13.6% margin.
Margins as expected have been negatively impacted by the number of new projects we are starting.
We expect margins to continue to improve as the year progresses.
We have had tremendous success in growing this business.
Over the last 12 months we've been awarded nearly $1 billion of new transmission projects.
Included in our backlog is only the anticipated 18-month burn-off of our projects.
We have made significant investments in both people and equipment in this segment and believe we are very well positioned to continue to take advantage of the growing opportunities in this market.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue was $63 million in the second quarter versus $198 million in the prior year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was a negative 12.6% versus a positive 6.8% in last year's second quarter.
As we have previously explained this is our most challenging business in 2013.
We now expect full year revenues to be down about $350 million from 2012 primarily due to the reduction in renewables based on the delayed extension of the production tax credits for wind.
A challenge in rightsizing this business is the fact that the wind business is expected to increase again in 2014 due to the tax credit extension negotiated during the fiscal cliff talks.
There is a significant amount of bid activity related to 2014 projects and we expect awards in the second half of 2013.
To recap we've had an excellent first half of 2013.
We've executed financially and delivered on strong margin growth.
We have enjoyed a significant increase in backlog led by some very important and strategic large awards.
More importantly as we look forward we continue to see a growing number of opportunities across all of our markets and we are investing heavily in the equipment and the talent that take advantage of those opportunities.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Bob Campbell for our financial review.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning.
Today I'm going to cover second quarter financial results and our revised 2013 guidance.
And I'll also cover our liquidity cash flow and our capital structure.
As in previous calls when we discuss our financial results and our guidance we will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and earnings.
A full reconciliation from GAAP results to continuing operations adjusted results is included in our 10-Q and our press release and on our website.
We have made 2 adjustments to our second quarter 2013 continuing operations GAAP results.
Our non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted results exclude the final legacy Sintel Spanish litigation charge and also they exclude noncash stock compensation expense which is also excluded for all prior periods.
We finally settled and closed out the legacy Sintel litigation in Spain which dates back to 2001.
And we had a final second quarter pre-tax charge of $2.8 million primarily to cover subsequent foreign currency translation changes related to the original $9.6 million pre-tax settlement charge incurred in the third quarter of 2012.
The impact of the second quarter Sintel litigation charge was $0.02 per diluted share.
Also during the second quarter the company entered into an agreement with the previous owners of EC Source to establish an incentive plan for the employees of EC Source our large project electrical transmission company.
In connection with this program the previous owners contributed cash and common stock from the original purchase transaction back to MasTec.
Under applicable accounting rules MasTec must expense the seller-contributed stock issued under the incentive plan even though it has no real economic cost to the company.
We currently expect total noncash stock compensation expense to increase from about $4 million in 2012 up to about $13 million in 2013 primarily driven by the new EC Source incentive plan.
Accordingly to increase the comparability of our 2013 results our adjusted results exclude this expense.
Our second quarter continuing operations adjusted results exclude $4.3 million of pre-tax noncash stock compensation expense which has a $0.03 per share impact on diluted earnings.
Before I get into my detailed remarks here are some Q2 headlines.
Second quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $110 million was up 31% from last year.
Second quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 11.2% up 280 basis points from last year.
Continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS in the second quarter was $0.47 a 21% increase.
We have revised our full year 2013 guidance for continuing operations adjusted EBITDA to $448 million a 33% increase over last year and our guidance -- our new guidance for continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS is now $1.88 an increase of 23% over last year.
The full year 2013 continuing operations EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.8% far better than last year's 9%.
And finally we made an important and strategic acquisition in Q2.
We acquired Big Country a Canadian oil and gas pipeline and facilities company and it will be accretive for 2013.
Now let me get into the details of our results.
Q2 2013 revenue was $978 million down $11 million from last year due to the expected $135 million fall-off in our Power Generation and Industrial business in which our wind farm business was down dramatically due to the tax credit uncertainty through year end last year.
Revenue for our other major segments was up nicely in Q2.
Electrical Transmission was up 33% Communications was up 15% and Oil and Gas was up 13%.
The transmission growth was all organic.
Wireless within Communications was up 43%.
Second quarter costs of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue was 84.1% compared to 87.8% a year ago.
That's a 370 basis point improvement primarily driven by the Oil and Gas segment but also with improvement in the wireless part of Communications.
As we said on our first quarter call Q1 Electrical Transmission costs of revenue was high or margins were low due to having multiple jobs being in either a close-out phase or in a mobilization or startup phase.
We also said on the call that we expect the transmission costs of revenue and margins would improve over the rest of the year and they did show significant improvement in Q2.
We currently expect that full year transmission EBITDA margin should continue to improve over the rest of the year and hit double digits on a full year basis.
As expected Power Generation was a significant drag on MasTec's costs of revenue and margins as we maintained our capacity to handle wind projects as they ramp up now that the tax uncertainty is behind us.
Depreciation and amortization expense as expected was 3.4% of revenue in Q2 compared to 2.2% last year primarily reflecting the impact of higher levels of capital expenditures in Oil and Gas and in Electrical Transmission.
We have increased our investment levels in Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission in anticipation of greater amounts of work in 2013 2014 and beyond.
Second quarter general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue on a GAAP basis were up from 3.9% a year ago to 5.3% this year.
Second quarter G&amp;A includes $4.3 million in noncash stock compensation expense and the year-over-year increase was $3.1 million.
The other areas of increase were one G&amp;A from this year's acquisitions; two payroll information technology and other cost increases to support our growth; three higher bonus accruals given the 31% increase in adjusted EBITDA; and four $900 000 of onetime transaction costs for the Big Country acquisition.
With our normal seasonality G&amp;A as a percent of revenue should improve over the rest of the year.
Q2 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $110 million which was up 31% from $84 million in 2012.
Q2 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.2% improved 280 basis points versus last year and it was a result of the much improved costs of revenue offset by the G&amp;A increases that I mentioned.
Q2 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.47 compared with the $0.39 we earned a year ago.
For the second quarter of 2013 the 10 largest customers were: AT&amp;T was 21% of total revenue; DIRECTV was 15% of total revenue; Enbridge a pipeline customer was 9% of total revenue; PPL Corporation an Electrical Transmission customer was 4%; Chesapeake Midstream Partners and DCP Midstream both pipeline customers were each at 4%; Isolux USA an Electrical Transmission customer was also at 4%; TransCanada a pipeline and facilities customer was 3% of total revenue; and finally Enterprise and Talisman Energy both pipeline customers were at 3% of total revenue.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q2 include 1 telecom customer 1 satellite television customer 6 Oil and Gas customers and 2 Electrical Transmission customers.
Our revenue is split between onetime individual construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenue.
For Q2 58% of our revenue came from master service agreements or other similar contracts and 42% came from onetime individual construction projects.
Also it should be noted that with many of our customers we have a significant number of repeat follow-on individual projects.
I just wanted to highlight that even though our onetime individual project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base for master service agreements and similar contracts.
At quarter end our backlog from continuing operations was up nicely to $4.1 billion.
The comparable number for Q2 last year was $3.1 billion and $3.5 billion at the end of Q1 this year.
The increase in backlog was driven by Oil and Gas which was up $400 million in Q1 and Electrical Transmission which was up $100 million from Q1.
Our total backlog in transmission actually grew more than that but we limit our reported backlog numbers to 18 months.
And some of the transmission work including the new MidAmerican job in Iowa goes out beyond 18 months or beyond 2014.
While we have had very good growth in backlog in recent quarters we do expect our future backlog numbers to bounce around a little and be somewhat lumpy.
We believe that investors should not panic if backlog in the quarter drops.
We currently believe that the longer-term backlog trend line and the trajectory of growth should continue to be very good.
With big contracts being executed and often quickly burned off and with the erratic timing of getting customer signatures quarterly backlog numbers may bounce around a little.
Our backlog represents signed contracts executed before quarter end and does not reflect contracts signed after quarter end or the strong verbal assurances that we often receive prior to signing.
As always our backlog numbers are only for 18 months out and they do include an estimate of the next 18 months of revenue for master service agreements and other similar work.
Now let me talk about our liquidity cash flow and our capital structure.
Liquidity calculated as cash plus availability on our bank credit line was $449 million.
We remain very liquid after the Canadian Big Country acquisition.
Our 6 months cash flow from operations was a positive $15 million compared to a negative $4 million last year.
And we normally have our better cash flows in the second half of the year.
Q2 cash flow from operations was a negative $17 million but far better than last year's negative $63 million.
While we had significantly higher earnings this year our growth in working capital really accounts receivable and higher cash tax payments offset the growth in earnings.
After I cover what's happening with accounts receivable and CapEx I'll cover the outlook for what should be much improved cash flow over the second half of the year.
Our Q2 accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs for continuing operations were 102 days compared to 82 days a year ago.
If you net advance billings or billings in excess of earnings and costs in the DSO calculation which is what many of our peers do then June DSOs were 90 days compared to 73 days a year ago.
We were clearly hurt by some collections that did not happen due to the June floods in Calgary Canada that delayed into July some of our normal collections.
In July we collected about $80 million that was delayed by flooding.
Regarding our spending on equipment we spent $46 million in cash CapEx in Q2 compared to $14 million in Q2 last year.
In addition we added about $42 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases in the second quarter compared to $25 million a year ago.
The total of our cash CapEx and capital leases and financed equipment was $88 million in Q2 compared to $39 million in the second quarter of 2012.
CapEx spending should be lighter in the second half of the year.
On a full year basis we'll probably spend about $120 million in cash CapEx and maybe another $80 million to $100 million in capital leases and financed equipment.
That's higher than our previous estimate but since March 31 Oil and Gas has been awarded over $600 million of new work including at Big Country and Electrical Transmission has been awarded over $400 million of new work.
As we have previously said we currently believe that we should have high levels of growth in Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission for the next few years.
As our project awards have increased dramatically and our confidence level regarding sustainable growth has risen we have increased our investment in equipment to support our anticipated growth.
We see a great window of opportunity for the next few years and we're getting ready for it.
We believe that the P&amp;L benefit for our ramp-up in equipment spending will be primarily seen in 2014 and beyond therefore we are incurring a modest P&amp;L hit in 2013 in order to do the right thing for the business longer term.
Also the bonus depreciation for tax purposes -- the 50% bonus depreciation for tax purposes expires at year end therefore the economics favor getting equipment and service this year versus next year.
Regarding cash flow over the remainder of the year let me say 3 things.
One our earnings should be much better over the second half of the year and that's our normal seasonality.
Two our accounts receivable days sales outstanding should certainly improve reflecting normal seasonality and also catching up after the floods in Canada.
And three after front end-loading this year's CapEx our capital expenditures should be down in the second half of the year versus first half levels.
We currently expect much improved cash flow and lower net debt levels over the rest of the year with a net debt decrease of $100 million or more by year end.
That's without additional acquisitions this year.
Our capital structure remains in great shape.
We have great liquidity low-priced long-maturity debt flexibility in how we sell our convertible notes.
And based on everything we're seeing we should generate impressive cash flow over time.
We are particularly proud of how we've managed our liquidity and our capital structure in recent years.
We have made a number of transformative acquisitions enjoyed remarkable growth and at the same time we have increased our liquidity lowered our leverage ratios and improved our capital structure.
As I mentioned we have revised our full year 2013 revenue and earnings guidance.
For the full year we currently expect revenue of $4.15 billion.
Additionally we are increasing our estimate for continuing operations adjusted EBITDA to $448 million and revising our continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share estimate to $1.88.
The increased earnings reflects our current outlook for the rest of the year plus the rest of the year impact of the Canadian Big Country acquisition which is another accretive acquisition.
The guidance excludes the first quarter loss on debt extinguishment the Sintel litigation charge and noncash stock compensation expense.
The guidance also reflects the higher interest cost of carrying the larger amount of senior notes from our Q1 $400 million offering and higher depreciation expense caused by the increased capital expenditures in support of Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission.
As I mentioned earlier a reconciliation to GAAP measures is included in our press release in our 10-Q and on our website.
The 2013 revenue projection represents an 11% increase over $3.7 billion for 2012 which we think is pretty good given that Power Generation and Industrial revenue will likely be down about $350 million due to much lower wind revenue.
Our 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA projection of $448 million is a 33% increase over continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $336 million last year.
In 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.8% which compares to a continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 9% last year.
And continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.88 is a 23% over increase -- 23% increase over continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.53 last year.
Our 2013 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 38.4%.
Cash taxes are estimated to be 90% to 95% of book taxes in 2013.
We currently expect depreciation expense to increase from $80 million last year to $121 million in 2013 as the result of higher CapEx and capital leases plus the impact of the Canadian Big Country acquisition.
As I mentioned earlier we will have a modest P&amp;L drag in 2013 as we ramp up our equipment spending in anticipation of opportunities that we see in the future for Oil and Gas and in Electrical Transmission.
We expect full year acquisition amortization expense of $21 million including the impact of the Canadian Big Country acquisition.
We expect an increase in interest expense from $37 million in 2012 to about $47 million this year.
Our estimate for full year share count for diluted EPS is about 85.2 million shares and about 86 million shares for Q3.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our convertible notes.
We currently project Q3 revenue of about $1.15 billion compared to $1.067 billion last year.
The revenue growth reflects good growth in all of our segments offset by an expected $130 million decline in Power Generation and Industrial.
We currently project third quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $135 million compared to $103 million last year an increase of 32%.
The Q3 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to be 11.7% compared to 9.6% a year ago.
And we project Q3 continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS of $0.60 compared to $0.54 last year an increase of 11%.
As Jose said we currently expect a strong second half and another record year.
2013 is all about execution and significant margin expansion and we expect to continue to perform well.
That concludes my remarks.
Now let me turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> My first question subsequent to the quarter in Electrical Transmission have you been selected for any material large-scale transmission projects? And a follow-up to that is has there been any leadership change on the transmission side? So we announced 2 major projects during the quarter that we were awarded.
Those are the 2 projects I specifically spoke about.
Those projects were signed during the quarter.
Only a portion that's in 18 months of backlog.
The revenue is in backlog but both of those projects in their entirety are in our total backlog.
So those are the 2 major wins that we had.
We have not been awarded any further large transmission project since the end of the quarter and there have not been any changes in transmission management.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My second question is regarding pricing.
And we could -- this is mostly in the transmission and pipeline side.
Is it safe to assume that the pricing in the backlog that was seen and stellar growth on both sides is better and is better than it was say since the first quarter of this year? I wouldn't say it's better from the first quarter.
I think over time the market has tightened up.
Competition has probably tightened up a little bit from a pricing perspective which has made it better for everyone.
And it's just an issue of supply and demand.
We've got a number of projects obviously that we're winning now that we're beginning construction on.
We think over time pricing continues to tighten.
I think we've seen some tightening but not all that we'll end up seeing.
And we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> If you were to look at your CapEx plans now for this year Jose how much -- if there was an infinite demand flow on the pipeline side how much could you grow your revenue by hypothetically speaking for next year from this $1.5 billion? We're pretty excited to be growing it to $1.5 billion this year.
Obviously we're going to look at the market and look at the opportunities for us to continue to grow our business.
We are very excited about the acquisition of Big Country and the opportunities that it opens up for us in Canada.
We think there's a lot of potential growth for us especially where we were in that market versus where we are today from a competitive sense.
We've made a lot of investments this year in equipment and people so we're hoping to grow.
I don't know that we're going to lock ourselves up to a number today because we're not ready to give guidance for 2014 yet.
But we're excited about the future.
We think there's further growth potential.
We're pretty busy from hereon out.
For the rest of '13 we're pretty booked in our pipeline business.
And we're going to work hard to find ways to continue to grow and continue to put ourselves in the position to get bigger.
Obviously when you look at our first 6 months run rate and where we think we can end the year we've got acceleration in that business in the second half we think pretty good acceleration in the second half.
So hopefully we can start that at that same pace in '14 and grow from there.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
That's helpful.
And second question it's pretty interesting when you're talking about the home security business.
Clearly the housing market is coming back and it seems like a good idea to always have a diversified business as you grow.
So if you look at it not from a 2013 2014 perspective but let's say from a 3-year-plus perspective what markets are you excited about outside of clearly pipeline and transmission? We're obviously excited about transmission and pipeline and I think we're very excited about wireless.
We're seeing a ton of growth in our wireless business today and we really see no end in sight to that.
We think that's going to accelerate especially over the course of the next few years.
A lot of technology changes are happening there a lot of issues with networks that are going to take a lot of work for a long time.
So we're very very bullish in that market.
We think we've got a lot of potential to continue to grow that business beyond just this year and next.
We think it's got some real legs.
We've always been bullish about the security business.
It's a business that we've had a hard time penetrating in the last 12 months or so.
We've had 2 of our major customers enter that business AT&amp;T and DIRECTV which we're now working for.
So we've seen a shift in the types of players that are entering the security market today.
A lot of the video and voice operators are looking at security as a way to diversify and grow their business.
And I think we'll naturally get a benefit from that and opportunities to grow our business related to that.
So we're pretty excited about that.
We think as housing changes both the maintenance telco and the distribution energy market are going to improve.
We think that the renewable market gets a lot better next year and we continue to diversify that business.
And hopefully that gives us a lot of long-term opportunities.
So the reality is that we're excited about all of our businesses.
There's not a business in our portfolio that we don't think has good long-term growth potential.
So we're excited about everything.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you specifically about wireless and your largest customer.
If I'm doing the math correctly it looks like you're growing your AT&amp;T business by more than 20% and we know that their CapEx growth is a lot lower than that.
So is this just the build-out in the new states that you've talked about before? And then how long can you continue these kinds of market share gains? Because I mean it's obviously a pretty impressive growth.
And then maybe you can talk about some of the other guys that you're building out with Samsung Ericsson your penetration into these other customers? A couple of things.
First all of our AT&amp;T revenue at this point is not wireless.
Again they've started doing some security-type work with a product they call Digital Life which we're working on which is having a modest impact to revenue growth with them as well.
But wireless is growing with them and we think there's a lot of opportunities to continue to grow.
There's a lot of market share opportunities that we have with that customer across the country related to their wireless build.
Again we think that irrespective of what the total CapEx numbers are they're shifting more dollars into their wireless network and will continue to do so.
So very exciting opportunities with them.
We're very bullish on where we can take the business with AT&amp;T.
But aside from that you've got a lot of other carriers.
Obviously Sprint is the big one and they got their new investment from SoftBank.
They're going to go through a very aggressive build-out over the course of the next few years and we really worked hard trying to position ourselves to get a piece of that and hopefully a sizable piece of that.
So that's a huge and very real current opportunity that we're working on that we're hopeful plays out which will have a significant impact to our wireless growth over the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jose just shifting gears can you talk a little bit more about the losses in the quarter in the Power Generation and Industrial business? What can you do to get that business back to breakeven or profitability and can you do that in the context of these declines in revenues that you're talking about this year? No question that it didn't perform at the levels that we wanted it to.
I think that we expected it to lose a little bit of money.
We probably didn't expect it to lose close to 13%.
Some of it is obviously driven by just efficiency revenues.
They're way down.
We're still holding on to some people because we know the market's going to turn and we're seeing that already.
Aside from that some of our projects especially some of the newer types of projects that we've been getting into on the Power Generation side where we're hoping to make some decent margins.
They're more like -- we're getting into the business.
They're more like breakeven-type projects so we struggled a little bit on some of the projects.
We're learning a lot.
We're getting a lot of experience and we're going to continue to try to grow that business.
But it's been a little bit more challenging than what we expected when we got into it.
So without those profits on those projects obviously there's less profits to cover some of the overhead.
As we look at modeling out that business for the balance of the year we're going to have another loss in Q3.
We think it's hopefully a little bit better than what it was in Q2.
And we're pretty optimistic that we can get that business pretty close to breakeven in Q4.
And then going into 2014 with all the renewable work that's going to be taking place we feel really good about seeing that entire business margin turn in 2014 to some pretty good levels vis-a-vis where they were in the past.
Research Division</strong> So it's fair to say you don't think it should get worse than here in terms of losses there? It is fair to say that.
And we'll take our next question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First on Oil and Gas I was just curious to know if this sort of soft spot we saw in revenues in the quarter if -- we've been hearing a lot about wet weather and things like that.
I was just wondering if that pushed back any project timelines and if that contributed to that weakness at all.
Probably the biggest impact in the quarter was the award that we were awarded from our largest customer.
At one point we had hoped to start that late in Q2 which would've had a significant impact to revenues.
It kind of got pushed in the beginning of Q3.
We've now started that project.
So that probably had the biggest impact in why you saw revenue slightly decrease from Q1 to Q2 and why you'll see revenues ramp so rapidly in the back end of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly just given the Big Country acquisition I was hoping you could speak to the opportunities you see in Canada in pipeline at this point and how you think you're positioned now given the legacy operations that you have plus Big Country.
Sure.
Big Country did about $30 million for the quarter.
We anticipate them to do about $150 million for the year.
Out of our total numbers that number should -- will grow as the back end of the year goes.
The $30 million in the second quarter was for 2 months.
So they're going to ramp as the balance of 2013 goes on and we're pretty bullish about their full year for 2014.
It's a fantastic market.
There's a lot of activity.
There's a lot of different plays in the pipeline business in Canada.
We had made an acquisition a couple of years back.
We were roughly $100 million power player in Canada so we were -- while it was a good business that we grew a lot since we acquired that first business the reality is we didn't have a lot of size and scale in that market.
And I think Big Country with their reputation and what they've been able to accomplish gives us a lot more credibility gives us a lot more scale to be a much more competitive and effective player in Canada.
And we're very bullish on that market.
We're very bullish on everything from long-haul pipeline to midstream to even gathering lines.
They are not a long-line contractor today in Canada so we're focused more on the midstream side of the business kind of like we got into in the U.S.
And over time we'll look at opportunities to potentially move into long-line construction but not anticipated in the next 18 months.
And we'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jose I wanted to just follow up on the Communications segment.
You mentioned Sprint.
Can you talked about how much of the upside growth in the second quarter was from some of these new customers and share gains? And how do you think the second half as well as 2014 outlook from that particular segment looks like? And then in the Oil and Gas segment your second half run rate implies close to $1 billion of revenues.
I mean can we assume that you hit your $2-plus billion revenue target much faster than what you were previously thinking? Can you repeat the second part of that question? Research Division</strong> Well I guess in the Oil and Gas segment revenues for the 2014 '15 time frame I'm assuming -- in the past you've said $2-plus billion of revenues in that segment.
Given the run rate that you're seeing in that business in the second half can you get to that level much faster than what you were previously thinking? Well if you look at the first half of the year we're roughly at about $600 million in revenues.
Obviously to get to the $1.5 billion we've got to be at $900 million in the second half so that's a pretty significant ramp which we obviously think we can do.
If you take that $900 million on the second half of the year run rate and you annualize it in '14 you get to $1.8 billion right? So I think that's -- we can obviously perform at those levels if we have the work.
So the goal of getting to $2 billion could obviously happen in the not-too-distant future.
On the wireless side the work that we're doing associated with Sprint just missed our customer cutoff.
We did about 2%.
They were about a 2% customer not just Sprint but those affiliated with Sprint.
So when you back into it it was a little bit under 10% of our total wireless revenues for the quarter and that will be ramping and hopefully significantly.
And we'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk beyond pricing in pipeline more on terms and conditions and how that's shaping up.
And then as a follow-up to that what type of visibility are you getting from customers about how your capacity will be allocated over the next few years within that particular market? So first on contract structure really not a lot of changes.
We've been working under the same contract structures for the last few years so you obviously have a mix between fixed-price and cost-plus.
We saw a movement to more fixed-price over the last few years and we think that continues.
There'll be some cost-plus but we think the business will be driven by fixed-price.
As far as allocation of resources what we hear from our customers today is there's going to be an acceleration of work over the course of the next few years.
It's going to be very busy.
And most of the customers are looking to their partners and trying to figure out how much capacity everybody can allocate to them.
So we're not worried about the amount of work that's going to be available in the market.
We think there's going to be plenty of work.
We think everybody in the industry should do pretty well us included.
And we'll take our next question from Jason Wangler with Blue Coast [ph] Securities.
Just curious as far as on the financial side.
You talked about the $100 million of net debt reduction.
Do you see paying some of the line off or keeping that cash on the balance sheet? And I guess as a follow-up to that as you look at the acquisition market which kind of dovetails into that what are you seeing from that perspective across all segments? Obviously as we get cash in the line we'll get paid off.
We've got 2 fixed structures of debt the bonds which we redid in the second quarter this year which were roughly $400 million.
And then we've got some equipment debt out there that is very favorable in financial terms which we probably won't pay off early.
So we expect and hope to build our cash balances as time goes on.
We've seen in the acquisition market a relatively robust market.
We've seen a lot of activity.
There's a lot of interesting plays out there.
Again we're pretty different when it comes to our acquisition strategy the types of companies that we look for.
We're fairly conservative.
We're looking for companies that we can get at a what we think is a modest valuation but with a lot of upside in the back end and with good management teams.
We still think they're out there.
There's plenty of opportunities some that we feel that we'll be able to execute on and some that we'll pass on.
But it's a very active market and we'll probably be looking at as many opportunities today as we have in a long time.
So I don't think it's a huge part of our strategy but there's no question that as we look at our markets and tuck-in capabilities and trying to fill the needs for our growth strategies there'll be some interesting acquisition opportunities for us.
And we'll take our next question from Liam Burke with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Distribution construction and engineering is starting to show signs of life.
A lot of the contracts you announced are in the higher -- or longer-haul higher-voltage area transmission.
Are you consciously moving away from the shorter-haul transmission and distribution to move to the high end? There's no question that we've been focused on growing the higher end side of the business which is a business that we weren't in.
So a lot of our focus for the last couple of years has been how do we grow that.
We think that the bigger opportunities are there and I think that's proven out.
We're still in the distribution market in energy and the maintenance business in telco.
They're obviously a much smaller part of our portfolio than what they historically were.
We still like those businesses.
We think those businesses improve over time especially with the turn of housing.
We're not seeing -- it's going to be tough for those businesses to move the needle for us because they're relatively small but we're in those businesses.
We have -- we're excited about those businesses and think there's opportunities for us as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And you touched on the renewables.
Obviously wind farm construction has slowed down considerably.
When you talked about other projects in renewables are they solar or what types of projects are they? What we think comes back in 2014 in a pretty big way is wind so we are currently bidding and in the RFP stages of a lot of projects for 2014.
We think '14 is gonna be an excellent year related to wind.
We've obviously done some solar projects historically and the solar market has been somewhat spotty.
I think wind from a competitive perspective has had a lot more legs and there's been a lot more wind constructed.
So to the extent that the tax credits are available in the renewable wind side I think wind is going to be a lot more active than solar.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> The margins in the Communications segment let's call it -- let's call them 13%.
You did a 17% margin EBITDA margin in pipe this quarter.
Can we ever see a 17% margin in Communications or is the business just structurally different than pipeline? I think the 17% in pipeline was obviously a very strong quarter.
As we model out the balance of the year we probably tone that down a little bit.
We're probably looking more at like 15% for the balance of the year.
Just because we had some good closeouts I think 17% is achievable.
But it's a very good quarter so I wouldn't necessarily model 17% for the balance of the year.
We think Communications can get better.
Obviously I don't know that it gets hundreds of basis points better but it can definitely get better.
Over time can it reach 17%? I don't know but I think it could reach 15%.
Research Division</strong> Okay good color.
And then Jose from a capital allocation standpoint would you ever consider selling the wind business? I would consider selling any business for the right price will probably be the right answer.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two follow-up things.
First of all Bob you've talked about CapEx being higher this year.
And then does it come down a lot in 2014? I mean how much is being pulled forward in [indiscernible] sort of a normal rate there? You know what? It depends on our growth.
I mean I'm not trying to duck the question We clearly are going through a ramp-up given the awards and the prospects that we see.
Will it subside next year? It might.
I'm not sure I'm ready to say that until we have a better view of awards and continued growth.
Until we see the growth subsiding I'm not sure I'm ready to sign up for lower but maybe lower.
There's no question though in a normalized environment we're not seeing massive growth in pipeline and transmission which is where a lot of our CapEx is going.
There's no question it's a lot lower.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jose just on the -- in terms of the margins in the transmission business when you've talked about the project timing and ramp-up and ramp-down what is the expectations for margins in that business for EC Source -- or sorry for all of MasTec? Our expectation is margins will over time be a lot better than they were in '12 and our margins in '12 were about 12.5%.
So we definitely think that long term we'd beat those margins.
The challenge for us in that business is we -- if you go back 18 months 2 years we were a very small player in transmission.
We had a -- we won 1 big project.
That's where we kind of started from.
We built ourselves to 2.
We kind of won some smaller ones.
So the challenge for us is we don't have 20 projects.
So when we have 2 or 3 projects ending simultaneously and we're starting 2 or 3 projects there's a lot of expenses associated with mobilizing the new projects demobilizing off of old projects.
So as we grow and we don't only have 1 project but we have 5 or 6 projects that issue goes away because we're never going to have all of our projects transitioning at the same time.
And I think that when you look at the projects that we've won and you look at the rollout schedule for those and some of those projects will be 3- and 4-year projects we won't see that again in the near term.
So the challenge has been as we've gotten bigger we face that issue.
So now we've won a number of new projects.
We're beginning to mobilize on those jobs so I think that issue that we had -- or that we're having in the first part of '13 will be slowly a beginning of '13 issue.
And as we continue to grow and get bigger we're going to have a lot more projects.
And while margins might move a little bit they're not going to move to the extent that you saw them move early in 2013.
And as we get all of our projects ramped and going again our expectation is that over time we're gonna be a lot better than the margins that we delivered in 2012.
And we'll take our next question from Min Cho with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for you.
It sounded you have plenty of growth opportunities obviously in North America.
And I know Jose in the past you've talked about having wireless opportunities in Mexico and Brazil and some pipeline opportunities in Mexico.
If you could just provide any update on those international opportunities.
Again we're pretty busy in the U.S.
so there's no question that we're focused on the U.S.
and Canada.
When we look at North America obviously North America also includes Mexico.
And we're very bullish on what's going to happen on the pipeline side in Mexico.
PEMEX the state-owned gas monopoly there is undergoing a lot of changes.
And we're keeping our ear to the ground.
We're seeing a lot of the changes that are happening.
So over time and I'm not saying that it happens in the next 18 months but over time I think we're going to see a very active and robust pipeline market in that country and which I don't think there's a lot of players that can handle the work that's going to happen.
So there's going to be opportunity for American companies to penetrate in that market and do very well and we're looking at it.
And over time we think there's a play for us there.
And we'll take our next question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up on investments in equipment.
And pretty much what I'm wondering is to what extent should we be thinking about this equipment that you're bringing on as incremental versus how much is replacing equipment that you've been renting in the past.
Well it's all incremental right? Because these are equipment we didn't have.
Obviously there's some change-outs or some equipment that we're changing out that maybe we have some older pieces that -- so basically some maintenance CapEx.
But maintenance CapEx is a very low percentage of that total number.
Most of that number is what we would call growth CapEx.
There's no question that some of that growth CapEx is offsetting some of the rentals.
So as we begin our process of growing our CapEx part of the analysis was we're running x amount of equipment today and the rentals cost is x.
We can save a significant amount of money by buying that equipment versus renting it.
Now as we were going through that growth accelerated.
So we continue to rent.
So all of the new CapEx purchases are not offsetting rentals.
We've been forced to go back into the rental market because of the amount of activity levels that we're having.
But what we're going to buy to and what we're going to manage our CapEx to is an amount of equipment that we feel that we can operate and have at a very high utilization level for a long period of time.
Outside of that we're going to continue to be in the rental market for ebbs and flows and peaks and valleys and rentals will continue to be a significant part of our equipment allocation probably forever.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you depreciating the new equipment over 6 years? No.
Each type of equipment is depreciated over different lives so there's some equipment that last 3 years.
There's some equipment that last 5.
There are some that last 7.
So it all depends on the type of equipment and the useful life of that equipment.
And we do a lot of studies around that and then we depreciate to those levels.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just one more question.
Jose you talked a little bit about the home security business through DIRECTV and then mentioned AT&amp;T.
Are you working for AT&amp;T now in home security? And if so what market? We are working for AT&amp;T on a project they call Digital Life which is a project they recently rolled out in a number of markets.
And we're probably -- we're not ready to talk about the specific markets that we're in yet but we are working for them.
We think we're a sizable piece of their installation business for that product.
Again it's a very new product.
Volumes and the anticipated demand for that product is yet to play out.
So as that becomes more meaningful we'll probably spend more time talking about it.
And we'll take our last question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Just on the CapEx when you started the year and took the number up it sounded like that was in anticipation of some bigger wins.
And then you got these bigger wins but the number is going up again.
And I'm wondering is part of that related to Big Country in any way or are we doing more CapEx right now in anticipation of yet more wins? Or did you just under-appreciate how much capital needed to be spent given the size of the wins you've already booked? Just kind of put some color around that topic.
It's not associated with Big Country.
And I think that we've ended up having more wins more rapidly than we expected.
So in other words there's no question that we expected to win some big projects.
I think we're winning more big projects than we had originally included in our CapEx guidance.
And as we've won them we've been forced obviously to invest in those businesses to be able to execute on those projects and hopefully on other projects to come in the future.
Research Division</strong> So this CapEx then gives you hopefully enough comfort that if you were to continue growing backlog over a 12-month period now you'd be in pretty good shape to not have to increase the number materially from here? Again to Bob's comment it kind of depends on how much we win right? We're always going to be winning to replace work.
If there's another significant growth cycle in any of those businesses it may require some additional CapEx.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Joe Mas for any additional or closing remarks.
I'd like to thank everybody for participating on our call today and we look forward to updating you on our third quarter call in a couple of months.
So thank you.
And that does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the MasTec's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on November 1 2013.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thank you Mary and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's third quarter earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP measure can be found in our recent earnings press release our 10-Q and on our Investor Relations site at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Campbell our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by financial review from Bob.
These discussions will be followed by a question-and-answer period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We had another record quarter and a lot of good things to talk about today.
So I'll go ahead and turn over to Jose.
Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2013 third quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our third quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some third quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $1 269 000 000 an increase of 19% over last year's third quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was $135 million an increase of 32% over the prior year's third quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins were 10.6% a 100 basis point improvement.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.61 an increase of 13% over last year's third quarter and cash flow from operations was $110 million.
In summary we had an excellent quarter.
In fact the third quarter was the best quarter in the company's history.
Third quarter revenue EBITDA net income and EPS were all at record levels.
Despite a year-over-year $127 million drop in revenues in our Power Generation business total revenues were up $202 million.
This increase was led by our oil and gas electrical high-voltage transmission and wireless markets which all had record revenue quarters helping the company achieve its 19% year-over-year growth.
We are seeing the positive results of our diversification strategy and believe that every market we serve offers us long-term growth opportunities.
Today we'll cover our financial performance.
But quite frankly our greatest success has been our ability to improve our competitive position across all of our end markets.
I believe the value of our brand has never been stronger.
I think today's financial performance is a testament to that.
But more importantly it's our brand recognition and reputation that will continue to provide us with growing opportunities across all of our markets.
I would now like to cover our segment data.
Our Communications segment revenue was $543 million for the quarter versus $490 million last year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 13.2% for the third quarter versus 12.1% in last year's third quarter.
The growth in this segment was led by our wireless business which was up 38% year-over-year.
Revenue growth in wireless has been stronger than expected and was driven by both growth from AT&amp;T as well as our ability to diversify our customer base as demonstrated this quarter with the addition of Samsung in our top 10 customers.
The work we do for Samsung is on behalf of the Sprint network.
We expect wireless revenues to exceed $900 million in 2013.
While we have enjoyed strong growth there are a significant number of new opportunities with multiple customers that we are pursuing and we expect to announce additional awards during the fourth quarter.
We have invested and will continue to invest in the opening of new training facilities the hiring and training of personnel and the equipment and systems necessary to provide our customers with the resources they will need to complete their deployments in a cost effective timely and safe manner.
Having these resources will be a key to the continued growth in our wireless business and we are very confident in our ability to be a market leader in this business.
During the last quarter we have seen a number of announcements of both long-term capital expenditures on behalf of the carriers as well as significant increases in third-party wireless investments as demonstrated by Crown Castle's purchase of AT&amp;T towers and a recent announcement by KKR of a significant capital commitment to fund a rural tower build-out.
Increased data consumption will be a significant driver in the need for investments and infrastructure.
We are very well positioned to take advantage of this macro trends in the wireless industry.
Our installation to the home business was flat on a year-over-year basis but up 18% sequentially.
We continue to invest in the growth of our home security installation offering and now have a presence in 25 cities.
While the revenue contribution is not yet significant from this market it's a natural extension of our capabilities and we are bullish on its long-term prospects.
Security coupled with in-home automation and energy efficiency is a fragmented market.
Our national reach and scope gives us a strong competitive advantage in that market.
Our Oil and Gas pipeline segment had revenues of $519 million for the third quarter compared to revenues of $284 million in last year's third quarter or an 83% year-over-year increase.
Revenues were also up sequentially by 75%.
Third quarter EBITDA margin for this segment was 13.1% versus 10.2% in last year's third quarter.
Backlog was at $639 million versus $265 million last year but down sequentially from $808 million.
As a reminder in the second quarter we were awarded one of the largest pipeline contracts in our history and we expect completion of that project in the first half of 2014.
As expected pipeline backlog is down from record levels in the second quarter due to this large award.
Timing of large awards will have a significant impact on quarterly backlog.
We have been and will continue to be a beneficiary of the significant changes in the oil and gas industry in North America.
We now have the capabilities of offering pipeline and facility construction services throughout the United States and Canada and we are bullish on the long-term opportunities that Mexico can offer.
To recap our exceptional growth in the Oil and Gas segment.
We made our first platform acquisition in May of 2008.
And since then revenues have gone from $70 million in 2008 to $178 million in 2009 to $563 million in 2010 to $774 million in 2011 to $959 million in 2012 and we now expect pipeline segment revenues to exceed $1.5 billion in 2013.
Our Electrical Transmission segment had revenues of $119 million for the quarter versus $75 million last year an increase of 59%.
Third quarter EBITDA margin for this segment was 10.2% up sequentially from 9.7% in the second quarter.
During the quarter PPL announced that described by them a transition of management companies for business reasons.
While we believe we were ahead of schedule and had excellent safety and workmanship on the project we began demobilization in the third quarter.
We are currently following the termination provisions of the contract and unfortunately will not be able to comment further on any of the project details.
We are very proud of our accomplishments in the transmission market.
We expect transmission segment revenues to exceed $400 million in 2013.
We have effectively doubled the business in the last 24 months.
We have gained the trust and confidence of our customers.
And while we're disappointed with the loss of the PPL project we are excited and bullish on our future prospects.
We have been in active discussions with all of our customers relative to all of our ongoing projects and believe we are performing at a very high level.
The market continues to be very active and the bid pipeline is very strong.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue was $85 million in the third quarter versus $212 million in the prior year.
Third quarter EBITDA margin for this segment was a negative 7.5% versus a positive 4.7% in last year's third quarter.
Margins however did improve sequentially by 510 basis points.
We expect fourth quarter EBITDA to approach breakeven.
As we have previously explained this is our most challenging business in 2013.
We expect full year revenues to be down about $350 million from 2012 primarily due to the reduction in the renewables based on the delayed extension of the production tax credits for wind.
The wind business is expected to increase again in 2014 due to the tax credit extension negotiated during the fiscal cliff talks.
There is a significant amount of bid activity related to 2014 projects and we are happy with our progress to date.
While not reflected in backlog since quarter end we have been awarded or verbally awarded contracts that are expected to exceed $250 million.
We expect to discuss those projects in detail on our next call.
To recap we are having an excellent 2013.
We expect 2013 to be a record year and we are encouraged about the prospects for our business going forward.
Our presence in the oil and gas high-voltage electrical transmission and wireless markets coupled with the improvements in our Power Generation business should lead to an increasing number of opportunities for 2014 and beyond.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Bob Campbell for our financial review.
Bob? Thank you Jose and good morning everyone.
Today I'm going to cover third quarter financial results and our 2013 guidance.
I will also cover our liquidity our cash flow and the expanded and improved bank credit facility that we closed earlier this week.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and earnings.
Our adjusted results exclude the first quarter loss on extinguishment of debt related to refinancing our senior notes the second quarter final Sintel Spanish litigation charge and they also exclude noncash stock compensation expense for all periods.
Before I get into detailed remarks let me share some headlines.
Third quarter revenue was $1.27 billion up 19% from the third quarter last year.
Third quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $135 million was up 32% from last year.
Third quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margins was 10.6% up 100 basis points from last year.
Continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS in the third quarter was $0.61 a 13% increase from last year.
We are reaffirming our full year 2013 earnings guidance which includes continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $448 million a 33% increase over last year.
The full year 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.5%.
That's far better than last year's 9.0%.
We have closed an upsized $750 million bank credit facility with better pricing terms and conditions.
And finally we have sold Globetec our discontinued and struggling municipal water and sewer business at a $0.04 loss.
Now let me get into Q3 detailed results.
Q3 2013 revenue was $1.27 billion up $202 million or 19% from last year.
And that's in spite of a $127 million decline in Power Generation and Industrial revenue.
To offset the power gen decline our other major segments all had impressive growth.
Oil and Gas was up 83% Electrical Transmission was up 59% and Communications was up 11% driven by a 38% increase in wireless projects.
Oil and Gas Electrical Transmission and Communications on a combined basis were up 22% organically without acquisitions.
Third quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue was 85.2% compared to 86.6% a year ago.
That's 140 basis point improvement driven primarily by the Oil and Gas segment but also with improvement in the wireless projects within Communications.
As expected Electrical Transmission cost of revenue continued to improve sequentially with a 230 basis point improvement compared to Q2 but 180 basis points worse than Q3 a year ago.
Also as expected Power Generation was a significant drag on MasTec's cost of revenue and margins as we move towards final close-out of several disappointing projects and we have maintained our overhead levels in spite of lower volume levels in anticipation of a robust wind project environment for 2014.
Depreciation and amortization expense was 3.0% of revenue in Q3 compared to 2.1% last year primarily reflecting the impact of higher levels of capital expenditures in Oil and Gas and in Electrical Transmission and also higher amortization primarily from recent Oil and Gas acquisitions.
We have increased our investment levels in Oil and Gas and in Electrical Transmission in anticipation of greater amounts of work this year next year and beyond.
Third quarter general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue on a GAAP basis were up from 4.0% a year ago to 4.6% this year.
Third quarter G&amp;A includes $3 million in noncash stock compensation expense and the year-over-year increase was approximately $2 million.
The majority of the increase is due to the incentive compensation plan for our EC Source transmission business that we discussed last quarter.
The other areas of increase were: One approximately $8 million of G&amp;A related to acquisitions completed in the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as in 2013; two payroll information technology and other cost increases to support our growth; and three higher bonus accruals given this year's 32% increase in continuing operations adjusted EBITDA.
Q3 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $135 million which was up 32% from $103 million in 2012.
Q3 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 10.6% improved 100 basis points versus last year and it was a result of the revenue increase and much improved cost of revenue partly offset by G&amp;A increases.
Q3 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.61 compared with $0.54 a year ago a 13% improvement over last year.
For the third quarter of 2013 the 10 largest customers were: Enbridge a pipeline customer was 20% of total revenue; AT&amp;T was 16% of total revenue; DIRECTV was 13%; Enterprise a pipeline customer was 6%; MidAmerican Energy was 4%.
MidAmerican is both an electrical transmission and a power generation customer; TransCanada a pipeline and facilities customer was also at 4%.
Chesapeake Midstream PPL and Samsung were each at 3% of total revenue.
Chesapeake is a pipeline customer PPL is in an electrical transmission customer and Samsung is a wireless customer.
And finally DCP Midstream a pipeline customer was at 2% of revenue.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in Q3 include 2 telecom customers 1 satellite television customer 5 Oil and Gas customers and 2 Electrical Transmission Power Generation customers.
Our revenue is split between onetime individual construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenue.
For Q3 47% of our revenue came from master service agreements and 53% came from onetime individual construction projects.
Also it should be noted that with many of our customers we do a significant number of repeat follow-on individual projects.
I just wanted to highlight that even though our onetime individual project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from master service agreements.
At quarter end our backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.0 billion.
The comparable number for Q3 last year was $3.3 billion and $4.1 billion at the end of Q2 this year.
As I mentioned on last quarter's call be careful not to over analyze changes in our quarterly backlog numbers.
Backlog numbers can be lumpy and bounce around some and we do not believe that 90-day swings in backlog are necessarily indicative of the longer-term trends in our overall business or in each of our segments.
Please keep in mind that our backlog amounts can fluctuate just due to the timing of when contracts get signed.
We do not count contracts signed after quarter end in our backlog.
And of course we do not count verbal assurance or even written notices to proceed.
Also especially in Oil and Gas we have significant amounts of book and burn work.
And therefore our backlog amounts in that segment are really not indicative of future revenue.
Also please note that our backlog numbers are for only 18 months into the future.
That means that some significant and longer duration projects may be -- may not be fully reflected in backlog.
Also our longer-term master service agreements work is reflected in backlog at only its 18 month value even if the MSA contract runs well beyond 18 months.
Now let me talk about our Q3 liquidity cash flow and our newly amended and expanded bank credit facility.
Liquidity at September 30 calculated as cash plus availability on our bank credit line was $428 million.
Earlier this week we closed and improved and upsized bank senior credit facility which will improve our liquidity even further.
Our revolver was upsized from a maximum amount of $600 million to $750 million includes lower rates on both outstanding and undrawn amounts has better terms and conditions and the credit facility maturity was extended 2 additional years until 2018.
Under the amended credit facility we can now currently -- we can currently borrow at LIBOR plus 175 basis points which reflects a 50 basis point improvement over our prior credit facility.
On a pro forma basis had the amended credit facility been in place on September 30 our pro forma liquidity would have been $578 million.
Also we have a $250 million accordion feature which under certain circumstances will allow us to upsize the credit facility up to $1 billion.
We've received great support from our existing bank group and we were able to upsize the facility through increased commitments from our existing banks without adding new banks to our bank group.
The rationale for our improved and expanded bank deal is we saw an opportunity to extend our maturity date while getting a better deal overall.
And with a new 5-year maturity and our favorable growth prospects we thought we should expand the revolver now while market conditions are very favorable.
The upsizing is not a signal of an imminent big acquisition but just appropriate capital structure planning for our growing company.
Our third quarter cash flow from operations as expected was much improved compared to the second quarter.
Our cash flow from operations was $110 million despite an almost $300 million sequential increase in revenue which caused some working capital usage.
As we said on last quarter's call second half cash flow from operations and free cash flow should be much improved over the first half of the year and that's what is happening.
We're currently on track for the $100 million-plus second half of the year reduction in net debt that we mentioned on our last call if you adjust for our spending on the small electrical substation acquisition that we made in Q3.
In the future we are changing our methodology in calculating accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs to be more consistent with others in our public company peer group.
Going forward we plan to include billings in excess of costs and earnings in our DSO calculations.
Billings in excess of costs and earnings or advanced billings are shown on the liability side of the balance sheet and they are substantial.
At September 30 we had $110 million of billings in excess of costs and earnings.
All of our DSO numbers in the future will be calculated net of billings in excess of costs and earnings and we believe that net numbers are more comparable to our peers and therefore will be more analytically useful.
For the third quarter in the name of clarity we will give you the numbers both ways.
Using either calculation our DSO showed very good improvement in Q3 compared to last quarter.
Our Q3 accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs for continuing operations under the old methodology without netting billings in excess of costs and earnings were 89 days compared to 102 days in Q2 a 13-day improvement.
Using the new net calculation methodology our Q3 DSOs were 81 days compared to 90 days for Q2 a 9-day improvement.
We previously said that we expected a significant improvement in DSOs over the rest of the year and we also said that we had some Canadian second quarter collections delayed into Q3 because of flooding in Calgary.
Regarding our spending on equipment we spent $44 million in cash CapEx in Q3 compared to $22 million in Q3 last year.
In addition we added about $27 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases in the third quarter compared to $6 million a year ago.
The total of our cash CapEx and capital leases and financed equipment was $71 million in Q3 compared to $28 million in the third quarter of 2012.
On a full year basis we'll probably spend about $120 million in cash CapEx and maybe another $110 million to $120 million in capital leases and financed equipment for total CapEx for 2013 of $230 million to $240 million.
As we've previously said we currently believe that we should have high levels of growth in Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission for the next few years.
As our project awards have increased dramatically and our confidence level regarding sustainable growth has risen we have increased our investment in equipment to support our anticipated growth.
We see a great window of opportunity for the next few years and we're getting ready for it.
We believe that the P&amp;L benefit for our ramp-up in equipment spending will primarily be seen in 2014 and beyond.
Therefore we are incurring a modest P&amp;L hit in 2013 in order to do the right thing for the business longer term.
Also the 50% bonus depreciation for tax purposes expires at year end so the economics favor getting equipment and service this year versus next.
As I mentioned we are reaffirming our full year earnings guidance.
For the full year we are raising our revenue estimate to $4.25 billion.
Additionally we continue to estimate continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $448 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.88.
The 2013 revenue projection represents an increase of over $520 million or 14% over $3.7 billion for 2013 which we think is very good especially given that Power Generation and Industrial revenue likely will be down about $350 million due to much lower wind revenue.
This year's total revenue growth given the dramatic drop in Power Generation revenue demonstrates the value of having a diversified portfolio of businesses.
Our 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA projection of $448 million would be a 33% increase over continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $336 million last year.
The 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin implicit in our guidance is 10.5% which compares to a continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 9.0% last year.
And continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.88 would be a 23% increase over continuing operations adjusted EPS of $1.53 last year.
Our 2013 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 38.6%.
Cash taxes are estimated to be 90% to 95% of book taxes in 2013.
We currently expect depreciation expense to increase from $80 million last year to $120 million in 2013 as a result of higher CapEx and capital leases plus the impact of the Canadian Big Country acquisition.
As I mentioned earlier we will have a modest P&amp;L drag in 2013 as we ramp up our equipment spending in anticipation of the opportunities that we see in the future for Oil and Gas and in Electrical Transmission.
We expect full year acquisition amortization expense of $21 million including the impact of the Canadian Big Country acquisition.
We expect an increase in interest expense from $37 million in 2012 to about $47 million this year reflecting higher debt balances partly offset by lower interest rates.
Our estimate for the full year share count for diluted EPS is about 85 million shares and about 86 million shares for Q4.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of accounting for our convertible notes.
As Jose said we had a strong third quarter and we currently expect that 2013 will be another record year with strong growth in our 3 key segments and with significant margin expansion.
Before I turn the call back to Jose let me mention one other item.
After having the great privilege of serving as the MasTec's CFO for the past 9 years I plan to retire at the end of the year.
I turn 70 next year and year end is the right time to pass the baton to someone else.
George Pita who currently is our CFO for Operations will become the new MasTec CFO on January 1.
As CFO for Operations George has had all of our business units' CFOs reporting to him and he's done a terrific job leading that group and working with our different businesses.
George joined MasTec in February after previously serving as CFO for Sunglass Hut Perry Ellis and Stuart Weitzman a division of the Jones Group.
I wish George all the best in his new role.
Being MasTec's CFO has just been terrific.
I really appreciate the support that I've always gotten from our board the Mas family our senior management team and from our banks insurance surety and all of our other partners.
I will remain involved with MasTec for a while as a consultant to Jose.
However this will be my last earnings call.
So let me wrap up my comments by saying again what a great privilege it has been to serve MasTec and our investors.
It's been fun every single day.
Thank you and I hope that being involved with MasTec will be as gratifying for you as it has been for me.
That concludes my remarks.
I'll now turn the call back to Jose.
So before moving to questions I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Bob for his years of service.
I had the honor of becoming the CEO of MasTec in 2007.
At that time our revenues were $932 million and EBITDA for the full year of 2007 was $53 million.
It's amazing to think that this quarter we exceeded the results for the full year of 2007.
During my tenure I have had the benefit of having a great financial partner and friend.
His work prior to 2007 created a solid foundation and more importantly over the course of the last 6 years he did a remarkable job of building an incredible finance organization at MasTec.
We have an incredible team here and Bob's leadership is a big reason for that.
I also want to thank Bob's wife Dennie [ph] for her support.
Bob on behalf of my family our board all of our team members partners and investors thank you for a job well done.
You will forever be a part of this family and you should take great pride in the legacy that you'll leave.
Thank you Bob.
I'd also like to congratulate George Pita.
As Bob mentioned George brings vast experience to MasTec.
George has also had the benefit of spending a significant amount of time in our field operations over the course of the last year.
I look forward to George building on Bob's fine work.
Congratulations George.
I would now like to turn the call back to the conference operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on your retirement.
George good luck.
Jose if I could ask you about 2014 in the sense that at this point in the year in '13 can you talk about your visibility into '14? It looks like your Communications business has reaccelerated pipeline remains strong.
Can MasTec achieve a low-double digit revenue growth in '14? And then how should we think about margin? You definitely have improved your margins in '13 but margins have been a little choppy still just okay in pipeline.
So maybe any views you can give us in '14 at this point will be helpful.
Sure Andy.
If you look at pipeline margins for 2013 -- and I probably want to start there based on the last part of your comment.
Pipeline margins in 2012 were 10.4%.
We're going to finish off full year '13 at close to 14%.
We're really proud of that.
I think that we had a great second quarter with margins closer to 17%.
They obviously came down in Q3 as expected.
We said last quarter that we thought the 17% was an exceptional quarter a high watermark but something that we don't think we can achieve quarter in quarter out.
So we're very very proud of the fact that we've been able to increase margins the way we did from 2012 to 2013.
And a lot of that has to do with the improvement in the market that we saw in the pipeline business as we've got some more mainline construction as the business was improving.
So when we look out to 2014 and quite frankly there's very good visibility in the market.
But we're still a ways out right? It's a long year there.
2014 is going to be a big year.
There's a ton of work expected to land in 2014.
But it's not like people have it yet.
So until you have it it's hard to really pin down what's your potential growth rates can be what's your potential margin can be.
As we're thinking about 2014 we probably start close to where we ended 2013 from a margin basis because there's not a lot changing in the pricing environment in Oil and Gas today.
It's solid it's good.
I think that's demonstrated in our numbers.
It will get better once the market gets more active once -- if Keystone happens.
We've always said we think that's a big driver of margin expansion in the business.
But we've got to see some of those things happen for us to be able to consistently say that we're going to operate at a higher margin over the long term.
So again it's an incredible marketplace.
We are blessed to be in it.
We think it's -- there's tons of opportunities not just in the U.S.
but as we've said in Canada.
And eventually we think the Mexico market is going to be a fantastic market on the pipeline side.
But I think that we need a little bit more time to really come back with solid visibility as to what we think our growth rates from a top line perspective could be in Oil and Gas.
We've talked about our other businesses.
Obviously in our power gen business we have excellent visibility because it's going from such a bad year to an improving year.
Our transmission business we've had very good visibility because of all the backlog wins that we've had over the course of the last year.
Obviously the PPL loss impacted that and probably slightly impacts our view for 2014 although I think we'll be up strong double digits in 2014 versus 2013.
And our wireless business continues to operate at a very high level.
There's just a lot of activity there.
We'll probably have more solid visibility in that business for '14 just because of the awards that we know we either have or are coming.
So we feel really good about our growth potential there.
So all in 2014 should be a great year.
It should be a better year than 2013.
The only caveat I'd say to it is from a margin perspective we expect it to be better than 2013 was.
How much better it will be how much growth we'll ultimately have I think we'll determine that over the course of the next couple of months as the year really starts to show up.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Jose.
Let me ask you about Communications then as the follow-up.
It's up double digit now year-over-year and margins have been rising.
Can you talk about how much of this growth is actual share gains? With AT&amp;T and other customers you sort of talked about it a little bit in -- upfront but maybe a little more color there.
And then margins they've continued to surprises us to the upside.
So is this just really good execution? Or is this just a very tight market getting tighter? I think it's a combination of all of that right? We are taking market share we are participating in what we think is an increasing market especially as Sprint really becomes -- begins to ramp up and spend a lot more on the rollout especially on the wireless side.
Margins have been improving.
Quite frankly we think they'll improve again in Q4.
And I think that as we look on a full year basis margins in that business were about 10.8%.
Last year we think they'll be closer to 13% full year this year.
And again that's a really good run rate as we look into 2014 for a full year and we're going to look to hopefully do a little bit better.
But those are good numbers.
And we'll continue to work hard at trying to improve them.
Again it's a dynamic marketplace.
It's one where labor is getting tighter.
The type of work is changing.
We positioned ourselves incredibly well in that marketplace and we think that there are ton of opportunities for us there.
And hopefully they'll pan out.
And as we get more clarity which we think is coming relatively soon we'll be able to communicate that a lot better.
And we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> And Bob first of all I think at 70 you're still a spring chicken so -- especially at the heels [ph].
But many congratulations.
I know what a pivotal part you've made in turning this company around.
You will be missed.
First question.
Jose NextEra came up with some very positive commentary this morning on when -- kind of in line with what you're saying.
And As we've looked at the utility CapEx announcement so far over the last month or 2 they've been essentially balanced between some natural gas but renewables continuing.
So as you go forward and you look at Wanzek could you comment on the longer-term outlook whether wind is a more beneficial factor for you or whether peaker plants are a better option for you? So in other words do you benefit more from a natural gas mix to the positive or more from wind staying in the picture? Today there's no question that we benefit more from the renewable side of the business because they have such a long history of being a renewables contractor a dominant player in the renewable market.
So as the wind market picks up and the wind market is very active it's going to benefit them.
I think there's no question about that.
What we've been trying to do for the last 1.5 year or so is really balance out the portfolio at Wanzek.
We don't want to solely be a renewable contractor.
With that said it's -- we think we've done a good job at really getting into some new sectors there.
It hasn't been all fun right? We've had our issues.
We've had the projects that have -- that haven't made the kind of margins that we were hoping or expecting which I think is reflective in the numbers that you're seeing in 2013 as well as revenues being down.
We're very excited about what '14 brings.
We think we're going to have a very good year in that business.
And the more that you look at what utilities plan long term we're not going to get -- it doesn't make any sense but to build natural gas plants today right? But we also know that they're not going to build all natural gas.
There's going to be different energy sources that all of the utilities use.
There's going to be a diversification of their energy sources.
So I do think that renewables plays an important role for a long period of time and I think that's going to be a bread-and-butter business for Wanzek that they're going to be able to be in and out of every year and I think that the business is going to be a lot more stable as we look forward just because it's -- a lot of utilities are looking for that diversification of generating assets.
With that said we still got to continue to improve our diversification within that business and be able to offer multiple solutions to different customers.
We're working on that and it's still part of our strategy.
It's still part of what we're going to do.
We've gone solely organic to date on how we do that.
And we continue to reevaluate our progress and our strategy.
And we'll find a way to make it work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the second question is in regards to pipeline.
You commented on pricing and Keystone.
And I do see what you're saying over there.
But we've seen a couple of very large projects probably coming to light and I know there are more 2015 plus with the Fort Hill's $1.5 billion projects announced the other day by Enbridge your key customer but also a couple of very large pipeline projects in Canada tied to LNG developments 2015 onwards.
So if you don't see Keystone happening in 2014 does that mean that the pricing impact essentially is still there it just gets pushed out into 2015 based on the opportunities from the large trunk line projects you're seeing outside of Keystone? Bottom line is it's a great market that's growing in a bunch of different areas with a lot of different projects.
The industry is not solely about one project but it's about all of the projects coming to life getting built moving forward right? A lot of these projects are not necessarily happening today or happening tomorrow.
So until they do we're not going to see that trend in pricing which is all that -- I think all that we're really saying.
Whether it's Keystone or another major project when major work starts it's going to have a significant impact to pricing.
There's no question about that.
And everybody in the industry is going to benefit from it.
Taking a step back we've also seen it right? I mean our margins are up 360 basis points as we guide out the year from where they were in 2012.
So we are seeing margin expansion.
Some of our peers are seeing margin expansion.
That's good.
That's happening.
But to really get to the next level of margin expansion which -- so I think we've achieved that first goal.
We've achieved that first jump of margin expansion.
The question becomes how do you get to the second jump of margin expansion? And all we're saying is for it to really hit that second tier it's going to have to be because some of these big projects start labor gets consumed and the market gets tidy.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel with FBR Investments.
Research Division</strong> Bob congratulations on all your success for the years.
You're going to be missed.
A couple of quick questions first for Bob not to let you off the hook.
Bob can you comment on any plans that you might have or how you're thinking about settling the convertible notes in the spring of 2014? Well let me say 2 things: First of all we -- just to remind everyone how we're accounting for them our current assumption is that we'll settle the principal the $215 million in cash and we'll pay the premium in stock.
And that dilution is already in the EPS.
And we acknowledge we've had a nice run-up in the stock.
And we have 2 tranches next year in June and I think November.
And we'll make a game-time decision if you will at that point in time.
So in a way I guess I'm not answering your question but it's clear that our current intention is to pay the principal in cash.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And Jose can you give us a little bit of an update on the Big Country acquisition earlier in 2013? And also comment on sort of acquisition activity acquisition pipeline and whether or not you're going to continue to focus on smaller transactions within your core franchise or your possibly thinking about adding another leg to the story.
Sure.
We are extremely excited about the Big Country acquisition.
We think it's a phenomenal company with a great management team that's going to really open up an enormous amount of opportunities from Canada.
We're very bullish on their long-term growth capabilities.
It's an absolutely fantastic company.
We're proud to have them.
And as we get to know them better I think we continue to feel the same way if not stronger.
With that said the third quarter for them and for our Canadian business was somewhat challenging.
We didn't -- we had the rains and the floods that happened in late June that went into July the late freeze kind of extended the breakup season.
So some of our work got started later than we expected caused some cost constraints.
So some of our margin impact in the third quarter versus where it was or where we wanted it to be Canada underperformed a little bit versus our expectation.
They had a very good quarter but slightly below where we were hoping that they would be.
And we think over time that comes back.
So very excited about what they bring to the table what they're offering is.
Again a fantastic group and one that I think is going to really benefit us over the long term.
The acquisition pipeline quite frankly it remains really strong.
There's a lot of very interesting opportunities out there.
You know our approach we're disciplined it's got to fit.
We're looking more to expand and extend our current businesses be it geographies customers or what management team brings more than necessarily adding another stool.
So I don't think that you're going to see us add another stool any time soon.
You never say never but we really don't have any plans for that today.
But you will probably see us continuing to make some nice tuck-in acquisitions to complement our businesses.
And we'll take our next question from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on the wind business as we get back to -- or we get into '14 and things start moving.
When do you expect -- it sounds like you're having conversations but when do you expect to start to see contracts being awarded and roughly when do you see boots getting on the ground and going to work? Well contracts will be awarded this year.
We've actually already been awarded some contracts since quarter end.
We will actually start some construction in 2013 with a lot of construction slated for the beginning half of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
That's quicker than I thought.
And then just you mentioned the home security business kind of expanding a little bit.
It's not meaningful yet.
But do you see that becoming more meaningful as we go through '14? Or is it even maybe getting another year under your belt before it really becomes something that's going to be meaningful from a revenue perspective? It's always been a part of the business that we feel fit us so well and that we would have so many opportunities in.
When you look at the security business nationwide it's an extremely fragmented market.
You have a couple of big players.
But the reality is that a lot of those big players buy contracts from smaller players that just aggregate homes.
The difference in the market for us today is that we're starting to work with some big national players right? So we've announced that we're working with AT&amp;T on their digital life program DIRECTV announced the acquisition of a big security company.
So now you have a different customer profile for us anyway in terms of who's going after customers.
Our business today will be completely dependent on their success.
So to the extent that those customers are successful our business is going to grow and we hope grow rather nicely.
It'll take time to see what kind of take rates they get and how they're going in those businesses.
But if you crack those businesses as their performance improves we're going to see a direct correlation to our business.
In addition to that it's our job to figure out other ways to plan that market other customers to play which we will do.
So again it's very exciting to be able to make the bigger play in that business with some core customers where we can open a lot of facility office get really good geographic reach and then figure out ways to maximize the utilization of those resources across the areas that we're in.
And we'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Bob.
And Jose I wanted to just talk to you about the wireless business.
You mentioned that you are expecting additional orders in Q4.
Are those from new customers? And can you talk about just how we should think about the new business for Sprint and Samsung as you're looking to 2014? Well in the market today we pretty much work for all of the major carriers.
Obviously we work for some in a much greater capacity than others.
So I don't think there's many customers out there that would be new to us in some shape or form.
We work for everybody.
So the awards that we're expecting and we're hoping to get are more with -- are with existing customers but with that said maybe some of our larger existing customers.
As we look forward into the Sprint relationship which is important and it's one that's growing Sprint is kind of doing things a little bit differently in the past.
A lot of their work has been through some of the OEMs that we're building and financing a lot of their built form.
They're still doing that.
That's really how Samsung got into business with Sprint.
They've been a good customer of ours.
We see that continuing.
And in addition we believe that Sprint is going to direct contracts more to other players as well where we think that there's opportunities for us.
So we're very bullish about what's happening there.
We think they've got a lot of requirements and needs over the course of the next few years as to how they improve their network and continue to build on their networks.
So we hope to be a part of it.
And it's a big industry opportunity and one that we're hoping to take advantage of.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just one other question on the pipeline side.
You said that you expect one big project to get completed shortly.
Do you think that we should expect some shift in margins because of the completion of that one large project? Do you see margins in some of the new business that you're winning pretty much the same as the existing projects? Sure.
So a couple of things.
I think when you look at our margins we've had 2 high watermarks which is the fourth quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2013.
Wherein both of those quarters we achieved close to 17% margins in the business.
I think it's important to note that in both of those quarters there weren't a lot of long mainline construction projects in those numbers.
There were some but it wasn't the dominant nature of what we were doing.
So I think that speaks highly of the pricing of all pipeline business.
Pipeline business in general today is a good market whether you're in the shales or you're in the long ones.
It's all a matter of -- a lot of the work is bid in that anywhere from the low to high teens from an EBITDA perspective and how you finish off jobs and where they're geographically based and the performance on those jobs will have an impact on where you can end up within that range.
So we feel really good about where we're at today.
Again we think we've made great improvements.
We're very proud of our team.
I know our team is extremely proud of the accomplishments that they've made over the course of the last year as are we of them.
And we think that's going to continue.
We expect margins to hold really well going forward.
And our job is to figure out ways that we can continually improve margins get better and get bigger.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First of all my congratulations to Bob and thank you for all the helpful over the years.
I guess first question Jose on the Power Generation and Industrial bookings that you referred to or pending awards the 250 is that all wind? Yes it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of -- and I don't know how much you can talk about this.
But your transmission backlog does that have all of the PPL work pulled out of it? Yes it does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how quickly...
We probably pulled out John north of $100 million out of backlog.
What it would have been had we not -- had we still been on the project it would have been about $100 million higher I suspect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how quickly Jose I mean do you have the opportunities to fill out 2014? Or are we looking at a low in the first part of the year? I know seasonally it's weaker anyway.
But...
John if we take a step back last quarter we announced that over the previous 18 months we had won almost $1 billion worth of work.
When you take into perspective our size in that business that was an incredible feat in our minds.
So we have a lot of work.
We have a very strong backlog.
As we look in 2014 we have excellent visibility.
We've said over the course of the last 6 9 months that we expected to do $400 million in '13.
Our goal is probably to do $500 million in '14.
Does that turn into $450 million or somewhere closer to that today with what we got in hand? Probably.
And to make up the difference we got to go out and get some additional work which we're going to work hard on.
But -- so it probably tempers 2014 a little bit.
But again we still expect double-digit growth in 2014 from where we're at in 2013.
The backlog levels that we currently sit on allow us to perform that and to perform at those levels.
And in addition to that there's a ton of work out there that's bidding that we feel we can compete on.
And hopefully we'll continue to win projects and continue to grow the business.
And we'll take our next question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Bob.
You've certainly earned some time on the golf course.
So starting off Jose the last time you had an upturn in the wind business pricing really never got to the point you expected it to be.
It was kind of challenging throughout that whole cycle.
As you're kind of looking out into '14 and as you're looking at these early contracts coming out has there been any improvement in pricing relative to kind of the 2012 period? Or are you still looking at a pretty challenging environment? Well we're still in the middle of a pretty active bid season.
So I don't necessarily want to comment on where we're pricing or what we're pricing.
What I would say is as we look at '14 we will obviously expect to at least be at the margin levels of where we were in 2012 which is a big change from where we were in '13.
So it's going to be a great driver of our business in '14 relative to where it was at in '13.
It's a good market.
The exposure and risk that you take on some of these wind jobs isn't as great.
Some margins tend to be lower than what our company averages would be.
We know that.
We understand that.
We expect that.
Again we're going to try to do the best job that we can on margins.
But if I was looking out into '14 and as I'm thinking about where we're modeling and we're planning it's pretty close to 2012 levels.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on a very kind of near-term question with the demobilization on the PPL project.
Do you think you could see a little bit of maybe some underutilization in the fourth quarter in transmission? Or were you able to reallocate those assets pretty quickly? We're actually expecting a nice increase in margins in the fourth quarter in our transmission business versus where it was at in the third quarter.
And we'll take our next question from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Bob congrats enjoy the cars.
Look forward to seeing you on the track one day.
My first question goes on to -- into transmission.
Jose the bookings we see this quarter can we talk a little bit on the pricing? How does that compare over the last few quarters and year-over-year better worse? Bill we've been disciplined on pricing.
I think we've got -- our views on where pricing should be I don't think we've really moved that.
Over the course of the last 18 months we've been targeting certain returns.
Those are the returns that we're bidding to.
I think our performance on margins over the course of the last 1.5 years has been really good.
We had a bunch of projects that we're starting earlier this year which had a negative impact to margins earlier in '13.
I think we're seeing that recover I think we'll continue to see that recover through Q4.
So we're really happy where our margin profile on our backlog is today.
I wouldn't say that it's again changing in any meaningful way from a market perspective.
So it's at a level that we're pretty comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My final question is on pipe.
Any compression contracts during the quarter? Well we did start some facilities work in the quarter so yes.
And we'll take our last question from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Bob I'd also say congratulations.
Jose the -- your comments about wind in 2014 you said margins similar to '12.
What about -- is that true for revenue also? Well it's early.
We've said for a long time now that we expect '14 to be a better year from a revenue perspective than '13.
So our revenues will grow in '14 versus '13.
Do they get to 2012 levels? That's a tall task.
2012 was a remarkable year.
So I think that we'll see really nice growth in that business.
We're not ready to say that we can get to 2012 levels.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then Mexico pipeline you alluded to that several times on the call.
Just curious what you're seeing there.
Well we're not working there today.
And we're probably not going to be working there in the near future.
But we are actively involved in relationships there currently and really understanding the marketplace and the dynamics.
We're very bullish on what's going on.
There's a lot of changes in the oil and gas industry in Mexico.
And when you look at obviously where it's located and the ease of getting in and out it's just for us and other a natural expansion market as we look forward.
Just like Canada I think you're going to see Mexico buying a lot of resources from the U.S.
so a lot of the U.S.
shales are on its border.
And I think you're going to see a lot of exports to Mexico on that side.
And that's going to create a lot of opportunities both on the U.S.
side and the Mexico side.
And we're hoping to be a part of that when that starts.
Research Division</strong> And that's just something you can do with existing capacity you have you can move some into Mexico? So we can do it a lot of different ways right? Obviously we could look at acquisitions in Mexico.
We're not necessarily there today and we're not-- that's not necessarily something that we're going to do at least in the short term.
There are -- we think that a lot of the initial opportunities will actually be on the U.S.
side.
So yes we will use U.S.
resources to do work but those same U.S.
resources can help dip into Mexico and work on that side of the border as well.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Marc Lewis for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Mary.
This is a very bittersweet moment for us at MasTec with Bob announcing his retirement today.
But we're happy for Bob and Dennie [ph].
We'll greatly miss Bob's leadership and presence every day at the office.
Over the last 9 years I've traveled all over the world with Bob telling the MasTec story to nearly thousands of investors.
The story which in large part had a happy ending because of the skill commitment and integrity that Bob brought to the company during a very difficult time in 2004.
But even more important over the years Bob has become a great friend and confidant.
On behalf of all shareholders large and small I just want say thank you Bob for the important contributions you've made here at the company good luck and job well done.
That concludes today's Q3 call.
Once again we want to thank all those who support us during the year and thanks for participating in today's call.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the MasTec's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on February 28 2014.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's fourth quarter and 2013 year-end conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements reflect the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this call and the company undertakes no obligation to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP measure can be found in our earnings press release our 10-K or in the Investor and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our CEO; and George Pita our new Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We had another great quarter and year and have a lot of good things to talk about today.
So I'll turn it over to Jose.
Jose? Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2013 year-end call.
Today I will be reviewing our fourth quarter and full-year results as well as providing my outlook for 2014 and the markets we serve.
Before getting into details I'd like to take a step back and make some observations.
A few years ago we publicly said out to diversify our business and put ourselves in a position to have greater growth opportunities with improved margins.
Since 2007 we've grown revenue from under $1 billion to over $4.3 billion.
And during that same period adjusted EBITDA has grown from approximately $60 million to $449 million in 2013.
While these are impressive financial results and we are very proud of them our greatest accomplishment is how we positioned ourselves across a number of growth industries that offer us expanding opportunities for both continued growth and better margins.
I know I've said it before but I truly believe that we have never been in a better position to take advantage of the opportunities our different markets are affording us.
We are blessed to be in incredibly healthy markets and opportunities for long-term growth are as good as we've ever seen.
Now for some full-year highlights.
2013 revenue was up 16% to $4.3 billion.
2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was up 34% to $449 million from $336 million in 2012.
Full-year cash flow from operations was $200 million and 2013 full-year continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS was up 24% to $1.90.
And for the fourth quarter revenue was up 24% to $1.2 billion fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was up 23% to $123 million and fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted diluted EPS was up 13% to $0.53.
In summary we had an excellent quarter and a great year.
With the exception of our Power Generation business all of our segments had double-digit revenue growth for the year.
Our Oil and Gas business was up 70% year-over-year our Transmission business was up 37% and our Wireless business was up 38% year-over-year.
Again we had a great year.
More importantly the prospects for our business are actually getting better.
While the Oil and Gas Transmission and Wireless markets have been our main growth drivers and we expect it to continue we are seeing an improving landscape for the balance of our business.
Our Power Generation group is experiencing a solid uptick in wind related business.
Our Installation business is beginning to see increased activity around our security initiatives and there has been a significant amount of dialogue and announcements related to 1 gigabit high-speed connectivity for residential customers.
The fiber deployment required for that initiative is a significant opportunity for MasTec.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communication revenue for 2013 was $1.96 billion a 10.7% increase over 2012.
In addition EBITDA margins in this segment improved 180 basis points year-over-year.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was flat versus 2012.
DIRECTV revenues were down about 3% offset by our entry into the security market.
We now perform security installation in 28 markets across the country.
We believe security is a natural extension of our capabilities and we are bullish on its long term prospects.
Security coupled with in-home automation and energy efficiency is a fragmented market.
Our national reach and scale gives us a strong competitive advantage.
While we haven't commented on our wireline business in a number of quarters future prospects for that business are as good as we've seen in the long time.
As a reminder the wireline business is where MasTec actually began.
Recent announcement from multiple carriers about 1 gigabit speeds to residential customers will require a significant fiber expansion.
Our history experience and geographic coverage make this a sizable opportunity for us.
Our wireless revenue was up 38% from 2013 versus 2012.
This growth was driven by continued growth with our largest customer as well as our ability to diversify our customer base.
We are benefiting from significant investments in our customers' networks.
Technology enhancements like LTE DAS and small cells coupled with net -- coupled with network densification creates growing opportunities for our business both for short and long term growth.
We have invested and will continue to invest in the opening of new world-class training facilities the hiring and training of personnel and the equipment and systems necessary to provide our customers with the resources they will need to complete their deployments and their growing maintenance needs in the cost effective timely and safe manner.
Having these resources will be a key to the continued growth in our wireless business.
During the fourth quarter we signed a new contract with our largest customer.
This new three-year contract is in addition to our current work.
The contract requires us to provide 212 dedicated tower crews throughout the east coast of these 152 will be located across the northeast in expansion markets for MasTec.
We began providing crews late in the fourth quarter and expect to ramp throughout 2014.
We are also excited about our future opportunities with Sprint.
In 2013 we did a significant amount of work for Samsung on behalf of Sprint.
Samsung was actually our 10th largest customer for the year.
In 2014 Sprint will be direct contracting work and we feel we are well-positioned with them.
Revenue in our Electrical Transmission business was $429 million versus $312 million in 2012 an increase of 37%.
2013 was a very successful year for our efforts and transmission.
We had a number of large wins and in 2013 we were actually awarded one of the largest EPC transmission contracts in the nation and the largest in our history.
That project should start late in the second quarter.
Our competitive position improved throughout the year and we believe we are very well-positioned for continued growth and success.
We are currently enjoying a very healthy market with an acceleration of opportunities going into 2015.
With our recent success and our relative size we expect solid revenue growth for years to come.
For 2014 we expect double-digit revenue growth and an improvement in margins approaching 2012 levels.
Our Power Generation and Industrial business had revenues of $294 million in 2013 versus $668 million in 2012.
As expected this was our most challenging business in 2013.
EBITDA margins for the year were a negative 5.5% but did have considerable improvement in the fourth quarter.
We are expecting a much improved 2014 and 2015.
We expect revenues in 2014 to be approximately $400 million with EBITDA margins returning to 2012 levels.
This implies an EBITDA swing of about $35 million for 2014.
Included in our year-end backlog was about $200 million in new awards.
And since year-end we have either signed or been verbally awarded an additional $200 million in new awards some of which go into 2015.
Our Oil and Gas pipeline revenue was $1.6 billion for 2013 compared to $959 million in 2012 an increase of 70%.
For the quarter revenues were $494 million compared to $244 million in 2012 a 103% increase.
During 2013 we were an early beneficiary of the uptick in the long haul pipeline construction which helped to increase EBITDA margins by nearly 300 basis points for the year.
As a result of the tremendous growth in 2013 we are modelling modest growth in 2014.
With that said the reality is that planned project activity for 2015 through 2018 far exceeds what we have seen in the past with an increased number of planned U.S.
pipelines a market in Canada that is accelerating and probably a year or two behind the U.S.
in terms of activity and the Mexican market that is going to see an unprecedented expansion of pipeline construction.
The activity levels in North America create a perfect opportunity for us to enjoy strong growth rates well into the future.
We expect a number of these opportunities to be awarded late in 2014 and a significant tightening of the market going into 2015.
We also expect that demand will challenge capacity and create opportunities for both increased utilization and improved pricing.
To recap 2013 was another record year for MasTec.
But more importantly we continue to improve our competitive position across a number of high growth markets.
I am extremely proud of MasTec's accomplishments.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the men and women of MasTec for their commitment to safety their hard work and their sacrifices in making 2013 another great year.
Our people are most important asset.
And it's truly an honour to get to present to you quarter-after-quarter the results of their fine work.
Today I'd also like to welcome George Pita to his first conference call as CFO.
As many of you know George started with us about a year ago as CFO of Operations.
We're excited to have him on-board and I'm very pleased to turn the call over to our new CFO for our financial review.
George? Thank you Jose and good morning everyone.
Before I start with the financials I want to say how excited I am to take over the MasTec's CFO role and I want to publicly thank Jose and the Board for the opportunity.
I also want to thank Bob Campbell who did such a great job in bringing financial stability to MasTec over the years and helping set the stage for our coming growth.
I inherited a strong balance sheet and during the last year I had the privilege of spending a significant amount of time in the field working closely with our top-notch operational and financial staff.
Bob has been and continues to be very helpful to me in the transition.
Finally let me say -- let me also say that I look forward to getting out in the road and meeting with our shareholders at upcoming conferences and investor meetings.
Today I'm going to cover fourth quarter and 2013 full-year financial results as well as our 2014 guidance.
I will also cover our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discussed our financial results and guidance we'll be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and earnings.
Full reconciliations from GAAP results to adjusted results are included in our Form 10-K and press release tables.
Consistent with prior quarters our 2013 continuing operations adjusted results exclude the first quarter loss on extinguishment of debt related to refinancing our senior notes the second quarter final Sintel Spanish litigation charge and they also exclude non-cash stock-based compensation expense for all periods.
Before I get into detailed remarks let me share a quick overview of 2013 headlines.
This is the fourth consecutive year of record financial results for MasTec with record full-year revenue EBITDA net income and diluted earnings per share.
Full-year continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.90 a 24% increase over last year's $1.53 per share level.
Full-year 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin showed a 140 basis point improvement to 10.4% of revenue led by significant EBITDA margin improvement in our Oil and Gas and Communications segments.
Full-year 2013 cash flow from operations grew 16% to $200 million and during 2013 we further strengthened our capital structure with the issuance of $400 million and 10 year senior unsecured bonds at payable rates as well as the extension and expansion of our revolving credit facility.
Additionally during the first half of 2013 our credit rating was upgraded by Moody's to Ba2.
In summary our capital structure credit ratios and liquidity are in excellent shape as we entered 2014 and our balance sheet is well-positioned to take advantage of all foreseeable growth opportunities in the markets we serve.
Now let me get into some detail regarding fourth quarter results.
Fourth quarter 2013 revenue was $1.159 billion up $227 million or 24% from last year.
And that's in spite of an $84 million decline in our Power Generation and Industrial segment.
To offset the Power Gen decline our other major segments all had impressive growth.
Oil and Gas was up 103% Electrical Transmission was up 27% and Communications was up 8% driven by 40% increase in wireless projects.
Oil and Gas Electrical Transmission and Communications on a combined basis were up 22% organically without acquisitions.
Fourth quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation amortization as a percent of revenue was flat for last year at 85.2% of revenue.
Depreciation and amortization expense was 3.3% of revenue in Q4 compared to 2.9% last year primarily reflecting the impact of higher levels of capital expenditures in our Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission segments.
As we have stated throughout the year we have increased our investment levels in these segments in anticipation of greater amounts of work this year next year and beyond.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A expenses as a percent of revenue on a GAAP basis were up from 4.2% a year go to 4.8% this year.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A includes $3 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and the year-over-year increase was approximately $2 million.
The majority of the increase is due to the incentive compensation plan for our EC Source transmission business that we discussed during our second quarter call.
The other areas of increase were approximately $9 million of G&amp;A related acquisitions; payroll information technology and other cost increases to support our growth; higher bonus accruals given our 34% increase in 2013 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA.
Fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA increased 23% to $123 million from $100 million in 2012.
On a rate basis fourth quarter continuing operations EBITDA margin of 10.6% was equal to last quarter and was a 10 basis point decline compared to last year.
Highlights during the quarter include EBITDA margin improvement both sequentially and over last year in Communications and Electric Transmission segments as well as a 450 basis points sequential improvement in our Power Generation segment.
Fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.53 compared with $0.47 a year ago.
That's a 13% improvement over last year.
Now I will discuss a summary of our top and largest customers for the full-year 2013.
Enbridge was 18% of total revenue; AT&amp;T was 18% of total revenues; DIRECTV was 14%; MidAmerican Energy was 4%; Enterprise Products DCP Midstream and Chesapeake Midstream were all approximately 3% of revenues each; TransCanada was also 3% of revenues; PPL was 2% of revenues; and lastly Samsung was also 2% of revenue.
Regarding diversification our top 10 customers in 2013 included three customers in Communications segment; four Oil and Gas segment customers; two Electrical Transmission segment customers and one Power Generation segment customers.
Our revenue is split between one-time individual construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services; and therefore recurring revenue.
For full-year 2013 45% of our revenue came from master service agreements or similar contracts and 55% came from one-time individual construction projects.
Also it should be noted that with many of our customers we do a significant number of repeat follow-on individual projects.
I just wanted to highlight that even though our one-time project revenue is growing nicely we do enjoy a large and stable revenue base from master service agreements.
At year-end 2013 our 18 month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.1 billion up $160 million on a sequential basis over Q3 with increases as expected in our Power Generation segment due to the awarding of several wind projects during the quarter.
The comparable number from Q4 last year was $3.4 billion so year-over-year backlog growth exceeded 23%.
As my good friend Bob Campbell has repeatedly indicated over the years be careful not to over analyze changes in our quarter-end backlog numbers.
Backlog numbers can be lumpy and bounce around some and we do not believe that 90-day swings in backlog are necessarily indicative of the longer-term trends in our overall business or within each of our segments.
Please keep in mind that our backlog amounts can fluctuate just due to the timing of when contracts get signed.
We do not count contracts signed after quarter end in our recorded backlog.
And of course we do not count verbal assurances.
Also especially in our Oil and Gas segment we have significant amounts of book and burn work.
And therefore our backlog amounts in that segment are not really indicative of our future revenue.
Also please note that our backlog numbers are for only 18 months into future.
And that means that some significant and longer duration projects may not be fully reflected in backlog.
Also our longer-term master service agreements work is reflected in backlog at only its 18 month value even if the MSA contract runs well beyond 18 month period.
Now let me talk about our fiscal year cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
Full-year 2013 cash flow from operations was $200 million compared to $173 million in 2012 a 16% increase.
Cash flow from operations during the fourth quarter was $73 million.
We indicated earlier in 2013 that second half cash flow would improve compared to the first half of 2013 and we are pleased to report today that is in fact what has happened.
With a second half of the year reduction in net debt of approximately $95 million as adjusted to exclude the impact of two small investments made during the second half of 2013.
Liquidity at December 31 calculated as cash plus availability on our bank credit line was $585 million.
As we discussed during our last call we closed an improved and upsized bank senior credit facility in Q3 in which the revolver was upsized from a maximum amount of $600 million to $750 million with a two-year extension until 2018 and lower rates on both outstanding and un-drawn amounts.
Also we have a $250 million accordion feature which under certain circumstances; will allow us to upsize the credit facility to $1 billion.
We believe that the actions taken in 2013 will position our capital structure for the multiple future organic and other growth opportunities in 2014 and beyond.
Regarding our capital structure at year-end we had $1.21 billion in total equity $794 million in net debt and continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $449 million for 2013.
Therefore all of our credit ratios are in great shape.
Our Q4 accounts receivable days outstanding or DSOs were 80 days compared to 81 days for Q3 a one day improvement.
Remember that as this is a single-point calculation DSOs can bounce around based on individual big project payment terms and the ups and downs of job start-ups and job close outs.
That said we anticipate that DSOs should range in most periods between the high 70s and mid-80s.
And this range generally puts us lower than our peers.
Regarding our spending on equipment full-year 2013 cash CapEx net of equipment disposals was $110 million compared to $72 million in 2012.
In addition we added about $111 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases during 2013 compared to $67 million in 2012.
The total of our full-year cash CapEx and capital leases net of equipment disposals was $221 million in 2013 compared to $139 million 2012.
As we have previously said we've invested to support what we expect to be high levels of growth in Oil and Gas and Electric Transmission for the next few years.
As our project awards have increased and our confidence level regarding sustainable growth has risen we've increased our investment in equipment to support our anticipated growth which is a great window of opportunity for the next few years and we're getting ready for it.
Looking forward to 2014 our full-year guidance revenue estimate is $4.65 to $4.7 billion continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $520 million to $525 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.27 to $2.30.
The 2014 revenue estimate represents approximately 7.5% to 9% increase over 2013 with a 16% to 17% increase in continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and a 20% to 21% increase in continuing operations adjusted earnings per share.
Inclusive in this guidance is an 80 basis point improvement in our 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margins to 11.2% of revenue compared to 10.4% of revenue in 2013.
To put this in perspective our projected 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin rate of 11.2% would be a 220 basis point improvement since 2012.
A significant driver of adjusted EBITDA margin rate expansion in 2014 is the expectation that the Power Generation segment should return to a profitable level in 2014 as wind project activity has escalated.
As a result we don't expect $16 million in EBITDA losses incurred in this segment in 2013 to reoccur.
Included in our 2014 annual guidance is a drag of approximately $30 million in revenue $4 million in EBITDA and $0.02 per share due to a negative impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian dollar on our Canadian operations.
During 2013 our Canadian operations were translated to U.S.
dollars at close to parity.
And our current 2014 expectation and the current rate is that Canadian operations will translate into U.S.
dollars at about $0.90.
In 2014 our Canadian pipeline operations are expected to generate approximately $400 million in Canadian local currency and an EBITDA margin that approximates our overall Oil and Gas segment average.
Due to the year-over-year change in rates Canadian dollar operations will translate into less U.S.
dollars in 2014 and this negative impact is included in our current 2014 guidance levels.
Our 2014 full-year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 38%.
We expect 2014 interest expense levels to approximate 2013 levels at about $46.5 million reflecting a full-year of interest carrying cost on the $400 million senior unsecured notes issued early in 2013.
With interest expense decreasing in the back half of 2014 as the convertible notes mature and we take advantage of the interest rate arbitrage of refinancing these notes with cash flow and/or a revolver.
We currently expect 2014 depreciation and amortization expense will grow at slightly higher pace than overall revenue and on a rate basis will approximate 2013 levels.
We also expect that 2014 CapEx levels will moderate down some from 2013 with cash CapEx expected at approximately $100 million and other $90 million to $100 million of capital lease and equipment financing for total CapEx of $190 million to $200 million.
Our estimate for the full-year share count for diluted EPS is about 87 million shares and 86.7 million shares for Q1.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of accounting for our 215 million in convertible notes.
Approximately 115 million of the convertible notes will mature in June with the balance maturing in December.
The vast majority of these convertible notes can be settled at MasTec's option in either all cash all stock or combination of cash and stock.
We have accounted for these notes based on the intent that we will retire the principle amounts of these notes which is approximately $200 million in cash and we'll issue shares for the premium value of the conversion feature of these notes.
Accordingly we have included approximately 7.2 million shares in our weighted average share count as of 2013 year-end and thus shares issued in 2014 to retire the premium value of these notes should not have any significant dilutive effect to 2014 earnings per share.
We will continue to evaluate our options for the settlement of these notes in 2014 based on our stock price potential uses of cash for CapEx and any M&amp;A transactions.
Given the strong cash flow expected in 2014 coupled with our ample liquidity position we expect that we can easily repay the principle amounts on these notes utilizing 2014 expected cash flow and our existing revolver which will result in lower overall interest levels -- interest expense levels in the back half of 2014.
Further interest expense reduction is expected into 2015 as a result of the full year's benefit from lower average interest rates associated with this settlement.
We currently estimate Q1 revenue of $920 million essentially flat to last year.
We estimate continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $74 million compared to $81 million during the first quarter of last year which would equate to roughly an 80 basis point decline in adjusted EBITDA margins.
Lastly we expect Q1 continuing operation adjusted earnings per share at $0.20 per share.
As many of you are aware our first quarter is seasonally our lowest quarter in terms of revenue and overall profit levels.
Our guidance reflects that normal seasonality and also includes the expectation of a decreased top line revenue and a breakeven EBITDA performance at our Power Generation segment as wind project activity is expected to ramp up in the second third and fourth quarters of 2014.
Q1 guidance also includes the expected impact on revenue and profitability of severe winter weather that has broadly impacted the U.S.
in January and February.
This reduced our productivity in several segments some of which will be recaptured in the upcoming quarters as we work to catch-up on existing MSA requirements and some of which results in profit margin pressure as a result of project and overhead inefficiencies.
We expect to make up the majority of winter weather profit impacts in our upcoming quarters.
Our expectation for the first half of 2014 would be that revenue will grow at a high-single-digit to low-double-digit level and that EBITDA margins will approximate last year's first half as we make up the first quarter profit impact.
If you do the math that means that broadly speaking we expect the strong EBITDA margin rate growth approximating a 150 basis points in the back half of 2014 driven by margin improvements in our Power Generation segment as wind productivity hits its stride continue with incremental margin rate improvement in all our other segments.
In summary 2013 was a record year.
We are fortunate to be well-positioned in multiple growing markets and expect 2014 will be another record year.
Now that concludes my remarks and now I'll turn the call over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll go first to Alex Rygiel from FBR.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen and congrats on another great year.
Thank you Alex.
Couple of questions around the wireless business.
First Jose you mentioned a new three-year contract with your largest customer is that for macro sites or for small cells or something else? Also on that topic of the wireline business when you discuss the 1G opportunity have you won any specific mandates yet associated with 1G or is it just actions that you're seeing out in the marketplace that get your excited.
And I have a follow-up.
All right.
So that's Alex's way of getting as many questions as he can.
The wireless award and may be just cover it in a little bit more detail it is new contract in addition to the work that we currently have and it's basically a dedicated tower crew contract.
So we're providing 212 dedicated tower crews along the east coast of which the majority will be in the northeast which are new markets for us.
Those tower crews will be doing tower crew type work.
So it's not for micro cells or DAS or anything like that.
This is mostly LTE-driven tower top work.
And it's really important for a couple of reasons.
One it's a dramatic increase to the number of total tower crews that we're going to have as an entity.
Two when we look at the business and we've been saying this for quarters the future of this business is around tower crew capabilities because of the changes with LTE and what that means to networks the amount of maintenance on the top of towers and the future is going to be substantial.
And this positions us incredibly well not just for the short term but for a very very long time.
So it was a very very important win for us.
We think it's a demonstration of how we've performed for this customer and they are trusting us to give a such a good and solid opportunity.
With that said we're just really into it.
At a very small level we provided a very small percentage of those crews to this point.
That project will ramp as the year goes on.
I expect it to be close to fully ramped by the end of the year.
And we're investing today.
It's costing us some dollars in the first half of the year that we think we're going to more than make up for in the second half of the year.
As we move to wireline and as you know Alex that's kind of where I started in the business a long long time ago.
I've been fortunate enough in my career to go through what I though were two incredible cycles in the wireline business.
One was the 1998 telecom act which led to the [CLEC] race.
And I was very involved personally in the beginning of fibre-to-the-home which happened in the early 2000.
And I can tell you that what we're seeing today if this goes through and obviously everything that everybody reads about it about 1 gigabit this has the potential to be as good as either one of those two cycles.
And I think that's a very very bullish statement.
I can comment on what we've done to date on that.
But I can tell you that we're a significant player in that business.
It's a sizable opportunity and we absolutely expect to be a part of it.
And a follow-up as it relates to Communications margins which were outstanding 13% in the quarter congrats on that.
How might we think about directionally where that margin goes as the wireline business picks back up? It's a good question.
And without a doubt those margins should improve.
The wireline business has been -- has seen deteriorated margins for a number of years.
That's a business that was largely predicated on new subdivision starts.
So when a new subdivision got built you're extending plant into those subdivisions.
That was the bread and butter of that business.
We saw significant declines in both revenue and margins in 2008 to 2010 timeframe.
It's recovered a little bit but this gives you the first opportunity in a very long time to get back to the levels of what that business enjoyed in the early 2000s which was back then as good as anything we had.
So from that perspective the margins are going to improve.
We said for a long time that we think our wireless margins will improve over time.
Now with all that said we're making a significant investment in our wireless business as we have for the last couple of years.
A lot of the investments that we're making today especially around these tower crews will take time to materialize.
We're spending money today to make more in the future.
So that is going to hold margin appreciation back for 2014.
But as the year goes on the year progresses I do think you're going to see additional margin pickup and additional margin pickup going into '15.
So again we had a fantastic 2013 relative to 2012 from a margin perspective.
From a margin perspective in that business we saw strong growth.
I think we're going to see strong growth again but I think it happens later in '14.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you Alex.
And we'll go next to Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Hi.
Good morning.
It's actually Saagar on for Tahira.
Hi.
Good morning Saagar.
How are you doing? Hi.
Doing great.
First question on your pipeline business and took a little bit where the last question was in relation to margins.
I know your pipeline margins were a bit weaker than what we saw earlier in 2013 in the fourth quarter.
Can you just give us some colour on where you see pipeline margins going in '14? And you didn't make a comment on utilization pricing potential into '15 and where you really see the potential of your pipeline margins going over the next 18 months to 24 months? Sure.
So we had -- again we thought we had an amazing year in our pipeline business.
Revenues far exceeded where we thought we'd be at the beginning of the year.
We saw strong margin performance on a year-over-year basis.
If you look at the last five quarters we had two quarters where we actually performed north of 17% and then we've had quarters where we performed in that 12% 13% range.
So there's been a wide swing of margins.
And I think that has a lot to do with job mix in a particular quarter what's happening on particular jobs.
There's two things that have affected our Oil and Gas margins both in Q4 and in Q1 and unfortunately is weather.
December did see some weather challenges as well that kept margins specifically in that business down slightly.
And we're seeing a -- in the first quarter we're being highly affected in that business for weather.
We've got a couple of very large jobs in areas of that have been more affected by weather than others.
With that said I can't overly express how optimistic we are about that business going forward and the activity levels that we're seeing that we think started at the back end of '14 in multiple markets.
We think when that happened and the market tightened the way we think it's going to tighten we'll have the ability over time to consistently hit the best quarters that we've hit over the last five.
So I do think that when you think about EBITDA margins going forward longer term at 17% that we've been able to deliver in a couple of quarters we think we'll be able to more consistently deliver over time as the market tightens.
Until then product mix job mix and the types of work that we're doing I think you're going to see margins consistent in 2014 and the ones that we saw in 2013.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And then one quick follow-up on Alex's question related to AT&amp;T and the tower crews.
That new contract you mentioned was 212 new tower crews.
Can you give us an idea of maybe how many tower crews you guys have right now or how many were doing work in 2013 so may be we can get a better idea of revenue opportunities from the new contract.
So couple of things.
When we think about the wireless business there's a lot of different types of crews.
Obviously tower crews is one type of crew; and again for all the reason I've talked about earlier a very important type because that's where we think that it's headed.
So for a lot of competitive reason I don't want to give you an answer to that question.
And the only thing that I'll say is that it’s a significant and dramatic increase in the total number of tower crews that we currently have.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Mannes from Avondale.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody and thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Dan.
So a couple of just follow-ups first on Power Gen and Industrial business.
Clearly you're looking at a bit of a turnaround in '14.
All the commentary so far is really focused on the wind side.
Can you talk may be about any other work that you're either currently doing or pursuing and opportunities maybe to diversify that a little bit away from wind given some of the challenges or early ups and downs in wind that we've witnessed.
Sure.
So if we look at 2013 very little of our work was actually wind related.
We had a lot of wind in 2012 2013 came; we were doing a lot of different type of work a lot of Power Generation-driven work.
When we look at '14 and '15 the bigger opportunity for us has been on the wind side as that market recovers and comes back especially in those two years.
We had a very challenging year in '13 from a margin perspective.
We know how to do wind very very well.
It's our bread and butter.
I think that's why we're so confident about the turnaround.
But as we look longer term there is no question that we need to diversify that business.
What we did in '13 was not economically what we wanted.
It was really important for our future growth for that business.
So I think that we've really built our resume.
We had some good projects.
We learned a lot.
And we're pursuing other work although the majority of our work in '14 and '15 right now will be wind at least in '14.
And as we continue to look out into '15 we're currently bidding a lot of the same similar type of work that we've bid in '13.
We're a lot more disciplined around it.
So I do think that over the next 18 months or so you'll see that part of the business grow.
And we think that part of the business will be the predominant part of our Power Generation business in 2016.
Great.
And then real quick since you've highlighted the wireline work and I guess what those little newer to the story can you may be give us a little bit of a context number one of how relevant wireline is in the context of your communications segment and just to get -- just to give us a little bit of framework to think about where it could go from here.
Sure.
In total it's about 10% of revenues little bit under 10% of revenues.
And again if you go back in our history it was by far the majority of what we did years ago.
We kind of did deemphasize away from it because we didn't think the opportunities were there.
But again with the talk from multiple carriers about what they are considering doing is a sizable opportunity that could have a dramatic effect on that particular business' growth for us for a long time.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Dan.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Novak from Frontier Capital.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning Mike.
Well thanks for the multiple years of strong performance.
We appreciate it.
So my question is in the past you've said that the wireless business is MasTec's most misunderstood growth opportunity.
Do you look out three or four years could you give us a sense of how big this business could be for MasTec? Sure.
So what we really love about this business? And one of the reasons we think it's misunderstood is you look what's happened in the course of the last few years and it's been highly driven by technology changes.
So whether it was going from 2G to 3G 4G LTE and I think the business has become much more broad-based and that's obviously upgrades a portion of the business and it's going to continue to be and then I think that there's going to be another technology that comes in over time and replaces LTE.
But then you have all the periphery things that are happening around that business be it small cell DAS network densification the construction of new towers the business has a much broader base than I think people give it credit for being.
So as we look at the business and we started that business from almost nothing right.
And what's really changed that business is the handsets and what you're capable of doing with the handsets.
We see so much potential in that business.
We see so much opportunity for growth.
We think that our growth is really just getting started in that business.
We've said in the past that our objectives are to get our businesses to $1 billion.
We think that this year we obviously passed that in Oil and Gas and we've talked about in the past of our next goal in Oil and Gas being $2 billion.
And I think wireless is there with it.
I think wireless will ultimately be -- has the potential of being a $2 billion for us over time.
The market is there.
The market is healthy enough.
And I think while we've gotten a lot of visibility on the other parts of our business I think that's one that hasn't gotten the recognition that it deserves.
I think we're absolutely a market leader in it with great opportunities for further growth.
And it's one that we're extremely bullish about.
Thanks.
And as a follow-up question could you discuss the recent acquisition as well the prospects for future M&amp;A and space? Yeah.
So we made a small acquisition in the fourth quarter the company called Dynis.
Dynis was had a couple of different things.
It was a turf bender in the mid-Atlantic for our largest customer.
And almost more importantly than that there were a founding member of something called the Warriors for Wireless.
When we talk about having to add the amount of people that we're having to add we'll obviously have to be very creative on how we get people into this space.
We almost feel like we're changing the industry and what we're trying to do in terms of adding bodies.
Warriors for Wireless is a program with the U.S.
military where we're tying to get active servicemen as they come off duty into the wireless space.
There's a lot of functions within the military that required tower climbing.
So we've made a commitment to hire upto 1 500 servicemen coming off of active duty in to the wireless space.
We've opened training facilities to support that effort so that was a key ingredient of the acquisition that we've made late in the year with a smaller acquisition.
In addition to that they come with the sizable book of business.
It's a very active space.
There's a lot of room for consolidation in that market.
And quite frankly not just in wireless I mean we're seeing a lot of activity in almost every single one of our segments that's M&amp;A related.
We have a lot of good opportunities.
So while it's not imperative to what it is that we're trying to accomplish at the company you know our M&amp;A activity is strong and will probably be a piece of growth story going forward as well.
And how many people were on the tower crew? Three or four.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Mike.
And we'll go now to Noelle Dilts from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Noelle how are you? Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Doing well.
First question I guess was just stick with wireless can you talk a little bit about your current mix of self-perform versus outsourced and where you see that going now with this extended contracts and also just what you see is the right level? Well this will obviously significantly increase the amount of self-perform that we do because all of this we self-performed.
We still have a nice mix.
We still do a considerable amount of contracting of vendors within the space.
Again there’s a lot of different types of functionality in the work that we do for wireless.
Some of which we do now some of which we don't.
But obviously with this -- I think the bulk of what we do will be in-house.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then it was nice to hear that you’re seeing some traction on security side.
Can you talk a little bit about how big you expect that market to be in 2014 for you and over the next few years? Sure.
So we’re obviously in support of two customers that we talked about.
One is AT&amp;T with their program called Digital Life; the other will be DIRECTV as they begin to rollout LifeShield which is an entity that they bought in 2013 and the product that they will be rolling out in 2014.
We've entered a number of markets; we’re very excited about what our customers are telling us about their expected ramp and where they expect those businesses to go.
It’s still a small percentage of what we do so in 2013 a kind of made up with the 3% decline in DIRECTV so you can almost back into the numbers.
We’re modelling some growth but again it’s a small number and as it materializes as it plays out as we get better visibility I think we’ll adjust that and we’ll hopefully adjust that upward as the year goes on.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then finally just looking at the weather impact in the first quarter can you give us any sense of maybe how many lost workdays you’re facing? And then just a little bit more on the businesses most impacted from a profitability standpoint by the weather issues in the first quarter? Sure.
So it was interesting.
I mean this is one of the few times where most of our businesses if not all of them were affected.
I think the only part in the country that hasn’t been seriously affected is the West Coast and unfortunately we don't have a big presence in the West Coast.
So all of our businesses from our DIRECTV business to our wireline business our wireless business our oil and gas business we saw the effect of weather especially in January.
We’ve had some projects especially in our oil and gas business which is actually a positive but the project that are -- that got deferred later in the quarter where we decided not to start because of weather it would have actually been worse for us had we started and not really got a lot done.
So we've had some revenue push out.
There’s no question about that.
And as we thought about it we think that number is probably close to 10% of total revenues of what we’re guiding in Q1.
We thought that had everything -- had it not been as severe as it was we could have made 5% to 10% of that.
So that's a sizable number.
We thought margins would be slightly better than they were last year.
So when put all that together it’s a sizable hit to both revenue and profitability.
Some will make back because it’s revenue deferral and then some is obviously increasing cost in terms of just slugging through it and getting jobs done.
But that's kind of how we're thinking about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Thank you Noelle.
And we’ll take our next question from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Good morning Jose George Marc.
Hey good morning Bill.
Good morning.
On the new contract -- the three-year contract; has that started or will that start this year? Yeah we said in the commentary that we started providing accrues in the fourth quarter.
Okay great.
And going into the oil and gas can you give us an idea of -- when you mentioned it’s a quicker book and burn and some of the projects don't necessarily hit the backlog can you give us a sense of the magnitude of that? If you think about our oil and gas business we’re in three almost distinct businesses almost four right.
You’ve got gathering lines you have Midstream integrity work and you have long-haul pipe construction or bigger projects.
The bulk of our backlog is around bigger projects.
When we think about gathering lines Midstream and even integrity those are projects that you're only capturing a portion of that work in backlog at any given period of time because those projects usually are three month to six month project.
So you could win and book and burn the entire business within a quarter or you could book and burn 50% of it or 70% of it.
So you were only ever capturing a portion of it quarter-to-quarter so the majority of our backlog is driven by bigger projects which is why -- and I don't know if we look at that differently.
A lot of those customers to us its recurring work.
It almost looks and feels like an MSA although we don't value them that way.
We only put in backlog project-specific work.
So it is mainly driven by larger projects.
Okay.
And then one you George.
I'm not sure if I missed this or not.
Fully shares outstanding for not just the first quarter but also for 2014 given the convert-- Yeah we said for the first quarter it was 86.7 for the year it's about 87 -- for the entire year.
Majority of the impact of the converted shares already included in our share count because the way we’re accounting for and we've already put that.
The premium value is already included.
So for 2014 fourth quarter 86.7 and rolls up to 87 for the year on average.
And I think a little bit higher than that in the latter part of the year maybe 87 and change in the latter part of the year to average out 87 for the year.
Okay great.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Josh Wangler from Wunderlich Securities.
This is Jason but we’re close.
Jose just curious you’ve done a great job on the pipeline side talking about as you see these contracts kind of -- starting rolling off for next couple of years.
This year is supposed to be a big year for Electrical Transmission as far as contract award.
Is there any color you can give around kind of the timing that you -- at least guys are kind of seeing that is that of first half second half type of the year&gt; And when you maybe sort through to work on some of the stuff? If we take a step back we’ve had a great couple of years in that business.
Our revenue growth rates there have been off the chart.
We grew 37% some 2012 to 2013.
We're talking about again a strong double-digit growth year in revenues for 2014.
We’re actively pursuing either bidding or in line to bid on more work than we’ve ever bid in that market.
So we think the pipeline is absolutely fantastic.
We do think there’s going to be a number of awards this year that will -- that has the potential of setting us up extremely well for coming years.
So there is really nothing different about our story.
We’ve talked about wanting to grow that business substantially over the next couple of years.
We thing we can -- we've talked about all of our businesses trying to reach the billion dollar mark.
We think we can get there in Transmission over time.
That's our goal.
We think the work in the market supports that goal and obviously our job is to get there as fast as we can.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Good morning guys.
This is [inaudible] on for Andy.
How are you? Hey how are you? How you doing? Good thanks.
Maybe just a quick follow-up on the earlier question about weather.
So we understand the headwinds here in the first quarter but can you talk about your confidence that you’ll be able to offset those headwinds or make up for some of the work you're not able to do in one Q as the year progresses? Well whatever gets deferred from a revenue perspective you’re going to pick up in the subsequent quarter.
The reality is that we’re not talking about -- we're not talking about significantly making up the losses that we have in Q1 related to efficiency.
We’re going to make that up.
I mean if you had to burn more money to get something done you don't ever really make that up.
You can only make up what's revenue deferred.
With that said we feel really comfortable about the balance of our quarters our year.
Quite frankly the first quarter wouldn’t be the way that it was our year probably would be better.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just as a follow-up with the growth you see in your end markets and with all the work you’re winning especially in oil and gas and wireless can you talk about your overall capacity to meet demand and specifically your confidence if you have the resources to meet the demand growth and how you maintain quality and execution as you ramp with new people.
I think we’ve demonstrated in wireless where it's not just about hoping that you win the work and manning it but it’s about the investments that you're making today to support growth in the future.
So when we talk about opening world-class training facilities it’s something that we’re very serious about.
It or -- we're not just saying it we actually did it.
We spent a lot of money opening training facilities unlike we think anything else in the industry to prepare to our crews because we know how important that's going to be longer-term.
And that goes at an expense.
So it’s not -- we're not hoping that we went the work and people show up to work.
We know we need to build those resources.
When you look at what we did in 2013 relative to our CapEx spend in those the Transmission and oil and gas markets we were preparing for what we thought was going to be a long-term opportunity.
As those opportunities play out hopefully we think those decisions will prove their worth over time but when you look at the amount of CapEx that we spent in 2013 that wasn’t for 2013.
That was supporting what it is that we’re seeing for the future.
So I think it’s – we're making and have made significant investments in preparing this organization to have the ability to grow over time.
What we’ve talked about is the training classes what we’ve talked about is the CapEx but just as importantly we’ve made those investments in people.
And we’ve been hiring a lot of people over the course of the last two years.
We’ve added people when the work wasn’t necessarily there and we think over time again those -- the results of that will show.
Okay great.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll go now to Veny Aleksandrov with FIG Partners.
Good morning.
Hey.
Good morning Veny.
My first question is on the Power Generation.
I know that you guys have already done some work for natural gas power plants but when do you think -- when do you see the major uptick coming on that side 2014 or probably 2015? Again we’re very niche player in that business.
We had a tough 2013.
It was an important year for us.
We’re going to build off of that.
The opportunity in front of us right now for the next two years where think we can maximize our financial both revenues and profitability is around what we do really well which is the wind business.
So we’re somewhat capacity constraint.
We can't do everything in that business.
So we're absolutely more emphasized on working within the wind business and executing on that.
We understand the important of diversification in that market so we’re going to work hard at it.
We’re bidding stuff but we think we’re a lot more intelligent and better about what we’re pursuing.
The good thing is we’re not under pressure to have to do that.
We've got a solid book of business that's going to carry us for a long time and we’re going to slowly build back into that business in a more profitable manner and that's our plan.
So you’re not going to see a giant uptick in the market for us in the next 12 months.
You might see a couple projects here and there but we’re going to build that over time.
Thank you.
And just a follow-up again for the Power Generation now you’re going to be working on the wind business while you people utilize but how about if we go to another year of downturn like 2013 can you move people easily like from the Power Generation to the Communication and Wireless business where you need some? We did it last year.
We had a good a huge win here in 2012 and a part of the enhancement of the wireless crews was our ability to meet -- to move people out of renewable that are used to climbing towers that are used to putting wind turbines on the top of polls and to climbing in the wireless.
So there’s differently some crossover in utilization of personnel but quite frankly for the next couple of years that group is going to be pretty busy on wind-related projects.
All right.
Thank you so much.
All right.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Adam Thalhimer from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Sir your line is open.
Please check your mute function.
Mr.
Thalhimer your line is open.
Please check your mute function.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Hey Jose great quarter good outlook for 2014.
Just had a quick question on the wireless contract.
I missed your comments was it -- you picked up a couple of states from somebody who is previously doing it before you? No Adam we picked up a new contract for dedicated to tower crews.
So we’re providing to our largest customer a number of dedicated tower crews throughout the East Coast of the United States with the bulk of that are 152 crews being in the Northeast which are pretty much expansion markets from Austin.
So these weren’t necessarily your turf states it was kind of hovering above your turf agreements? So that's correct.
It was for both.
It was for the entire East Coast.
So obviously we have some turfs in the East Coast but it was for the entire East Coast of which we don't -- we didn't have a lot in the Northeast.
So that's why those are the expansion markets for us.
And -- I mean I guess you're not going to comment on this.
So what's a situation where they're going to pay a premium to like the normal cost of a tower crew just because they're having trouble getting crews? Well I think that the challenge in the industry is the availability of tower crews because very few people have them; very few people have made investments in building that part of their business.
So I think obviously it’s a need.
They’re not just one wireless carrier have but all the wireless carriers have the need for tower crews and this was a method for them to kind of guarantee tower crews when they need them where they need them.
Great.
And then just lastly I wanted to ask about Canada I mean what would be your appetite for getting bigger in Canada in terms of mainline pipe or transmission? We view the Canadian market as a fantastic growth opportunity.
Obviously we've built a much bigger presence there in 2013.
A lot of room for expansion.
We said in our commentary that we think that while the Canadian market is good it’s probably a couple of years behind the U.S.
We see a market that will accelerate over time.
We’re happy with where we’re at but we know that we can get a lot bigger there.
So M&amp;A activity related to Canada is something that absolutely could make sense for us.
Okay.
Thanks Jose.
Thanks Adam.
And we’ll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Stephens.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you talk about 1 gigabit market opportunity set? Like how quickly can that become material? How competitive is it? And I guess depending on which end market you’re serving do you have the ability to go out and service the cable market as well as they roll fiber out? Is there an opportunity there? And would you look to do acquisitions in the market or do you think you have what you need? So you got a lot of questions in there but the -- so let's start with the last one.
We think we have what we need but obviously if we thought we needed to make an acquisition to improve our competitive position in anyone geography or with anyone customer we would consider doing it.
Again what I’ll say about it is it's a very sizable opportunity.
It's one that we think will have more impact over time but it absolutely has the opportunity to impact 2014.
But it will impact for the years out and we think of much greater manner.
So it's a real opportunity that's year.
It’s here today it’s here now.
And obviously the size of the ultimate opportunity will depend on how far everybody gets behind it.
Although we think it's a reality we think that something that is going to happen.
We've been more focused on wireline customers wireline communication -- telephone companies in the past.
We used to do a lot of work for the cable companies.
I don't know that that's necessarily plays where we have immediate opportunities but over time if what happens if what we think happens happens everybody is going to be constrained and the cream rises to the top.
Okay.
I guess every one of your end markets is become -- obviously they are all growing quite quickly and the projects are getting bigger and the customers are relying on the contractors for more and better service and more timely service.
Are you seeing the bid lift on some of your competitive will get it bigger or smaller right now given that dynamic? And how are the customers thinking about that also I think it depends on the end market.
And I think there’s two big drivers.
One is -- I think customers understand the importance of having solid vendors with strong financial backing that could support their needs especially when they're trying to deploy something in a quick and safe manner.
I do think that -- so in some cases you have a shrinking vendor list in other cases you have customers that are cost conscious that are trying to open up that list to keep competition very active.
So it kind of depends.
Safety plays a big role in all this.
It differently plays a big role in the wireless market.
And I think you’re going to continue to see that.
Unfortunately the wireless industry had a number of deaths last year.
I think you're going to see a lot more regulation come around that and that's going to only be good for companies like ours that really focus on safety and really work hard to make that a significant part of their everyday culture.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the industrial market you're talking about $35 million swing in EBITDA year-on-year and 2014 versus 20113.
Your conviction around that I guess how much of that is just utilization driven and better absorption of your fixed costs versus profitability improving on the work you’re bidding? So were going from about 300 million in 2013 to 400 million in 2014 in that business.
The challenges the work we did in 2013 wasn’t work that we had traditionally done.
So it was in a lot of markets that were new so we struggled.
We know the wind business well so my conviction around that is very high.
Obviously utilization helps to the extent of that additional $100 million in revs but it’s also our ability to do that work and know that work a lot better than some of the stuff we did in the past and our confidence around that.
All right.
Great.
Thank you much.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning guys.
This is Jeremiah on for Vishal.
I think you mentioned that Mexico being an unprecedented opportunity in pipeline I was just wondering if you could expand on the timeline there and total opportunity.
Well the opportunity is surprising us in terms of the size scale.
I can tell you that what we’ve talking about it on and off for course of the last six months we’ve been actively engaged in learning about it positioning ourselves to try to be a part of it.
I can tell you that today we’re going after multiple opportunities currently and while we still believe it’s a longer-term opportunity there is a chance that it affects revenues as early as 2014.
Okay that's great.
And obviously you're doing a great job on cash generation in 2013 and it seems like that will continue.
So just wondering where the capital allocation priorities are for the year.
Well we expect continuing improvement in our cash flow in 2014.
When you look at the growth that we’re expecting in EBITDA we expect to least that level of growth in cash flow from operations if not a little bit more.
We also indicated that our capital expenditure program for 2014 will moderate down some from what we spent in 2013.
So all of that bodes well for cash flow.
Our use of cash flow will be for the best opportunity.
We know we have to converts during the year which we will refinance and then we will continue to re-invest excess cash flow for a combination of debt pay down and any other M&amp;A or other opportunities that pop up.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Liam Burke Janney.
Thank you.
Good morning Jose.
How are you? How you doing? Good fine.
Thank you.
When I look at your CapEx and investment this year vis-à-vis what you’d look at as your normal maintenance CapEx there’s a significant incremental investment there.
You’ve good visibility on most of your markets on the demand side.
In terms of the return on that investment how are you looking at the trends for margins? You’re looking at them being stable or moving up? Well I think we talked about it earlier.
When we look at our Communications business our oil and gas business our Transmission business which is really where we’re making the bulk of our investments.
Long-term we expect all of the margins in those businesses to go up.
Again in oil and gas we had two quarters in our last five where we had 17%.
We think over time that is a sustainable number.
When we get through some of this tower hiring for the wireless business we think and the improvement with the opportunities in our wireline business we think the Communication margins are going to drive up to all and we’re expecting a nice pick up in Transmission margins this year.
So I think those investments will -- and again over time will prove that we’re well worth the investment.
Great.
And then on MSA versus project revenue on the Communication side is there still a significant gap there? I mean the bulk of what we do in Communications is MSA-driven yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our final questions from Noelle Dilts from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> I just had a follow-up question.
I think this is for George.
On the -- on non-cash stock-based comp that you’re forecasting for 2014 at $16 million up from $12.9 million in 2013 and then $4.4 million in 2012 I thought that 2013 was a little bit elevated because of the EC Source stores agreement that went through.
Can you just help me understand what's kind of behind that $16 million number? Noelle those -- that level continues into 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
So we had a partial year …on that same agreement.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Okay great.
Yeah that same agreement.
So there was a partial year impact you saw in 2013 and it continues into 2014 as-- Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks.
All right.
And this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Mas at this time I’ll turn the conference back over to you for any additional comments.
Yeah I’d just like to thank everybody for participating on today's call and we look forward to updating you in a couple of months.
So thank you for joining us today.
And that does conclude today's Q4 and 2013 year end conference.
Once again we want to thank all who have supported us during the year and thank you for participating in today's conference.
Welcome to the MasTec’s First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast May 2 2014.
Let me remind participants that today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Marc Lewis MasTec’s Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thank you Wayne.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make several statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today’s remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday’s press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings press release our 10-Q our 10-K or in the Investor and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and George Pita our Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by Jose followed by financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period.
And we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of good things to talk about today.
So I’d now like to turn the call over to Jose.
Jose? Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec’s 2014 first quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our first quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some first quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $964 million a 5% increase over the prior year’s first quarter.
EBITDA was $75 million and earnings per share were $0.21.
In summary we had a solid quarter considering the significant challenges we faced relating to weather.
Both revenues and margins were impacted as we were able to complete less work and on many projects the work we were able to perform had productivity and cleanup issues.
That being said we performed well and more importantly the outlook and demand for our services is excellent.
Over the last couple of years we have made significant investments in both people and equipment to position us to take advantage of the growing opportunities in our oil and gas transmission and wireless markets.
While these have been our main growth drivers and we expect that to continue we are seeing an improving landscape for the balance of our business.
Our power generation group is experiencing a solid uptick in wind related business.
Our installation business is experiencing strong growth in our security initiatives and since our last call only two months ago there has been a significant amount of additional announcements by a number of carriers related to 1 gigabit high speed connectivity for residential customers.
The fiber deployment required for that initiative is a significant opportunity MasTec.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our communications revenue for the quarter was $447 million versus $425 million last year.
This was driven by a 27% increase in our wireless business offset by decline in both our installation business and our wireline business.
Weather impacted both revenue growth and margins in all three of our communications markets.
Our install of a home revenue was down 9% year-over-year.
We have significant exposure to the Northeast in this business and weather negatively impacted revenues.
We expect revenue growth in this business in the second quarter and for the balance of the year we made a small acquisition subsequent to quarter end of a company called Speed Wire.
Speed Wire is a broadband and security installation company that was also a leading digitalize installation contractor.
With our combined resources we are now providing security services in 72 markets from 28 markets last quarter.
We expect security revenues to approach $100 million in 2015.
We believe security is a natural extension of our capabilities and we are bullish on its long-term prospects.
Security coupled with in-home automation and energy’s efficiency is a fragmented market our national region scale gives us a strong competitive advantage while wireline revenues for the quarter were down year-over-year future prospects for that business are as good as we have seen in a long time.
As a reminder the wireline business is where MasTec actually began.
Recent announcements from multiple carriers about 1 gigabit speeds to residential customers will require a significant fiber expansion.
Our history experience and geographic coverage make this a sizable opportunity for us while we don’t expect significant revenues in 2014 related to 1 gigabit projects we believe the revenue opportunity for 2015 and later will be significant in size and in scope.
Our wireless revenue was up 27% in the first quarter compared to last year’s first quarter.
We are benefiting from significant investments in our customers’ networks.
Technology enhancements like LTE DAS and small cells coupled with network densification creates growing opportunities for our business both for short and long-term growth.
We have invested and will continue to invest in the opening of new training facilities the hiring and training of personnel and the equipment and systems necessary to provide our customers with the resources they will need to complete their deployments and their growing maintenance needs in a cost effective timely and safe manner.
Having these resources will be a key to the continued growth in our wireless business.
As we announced in our last call we were recently awarded a contract to provide dedicated crews to our largest customer.
That contract requires us to provide 212 crews by year-end.
We are in the process of ramping and while short-term this aggressive ramp will pressure margins longer-term we’re very bullish on our ability to deliver strong revenue growth with improving margins.
Subsequent to quarter end we were also awarded a contract to provide dedicated crews in support of our second largest wireless customer while this award has taken longer than expected and work for 2014 will start slightly later than we were expecting.
This is a significant step in our ability to continue to diversify our wireless customer base.
Revenue in our electrical transmission business was $80 million versus $85 million in last year’s first quarter.
We had a number of large wins and in 2013 we were actually awarded one of the largest EPC contracts in the nation and the largest in our history.
That project is beginning to ramp and we’ll lead to solid revenue growth for the balance of the year.
Subsequent to quarter end we were awarded the first major EPC substation project from the new Berkshire Hathaway energy which was formerly known as MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.
This is a significant award because it demonstrates the continued confidences that Berkshire Hathaway Energy has in our transmission and substation team.
We continue to see a very strong bidding environment and we are confident in our ability to continue to deliver strong growth in this segment.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment.
Revenue was is $54 million in the first quarter versus $89 million in the prior year.
EBITDA margin for this segment was slightly positive and a big improvement on a sequential basis.
We are expecting a much improved 2014 and 2015.
We expect revenues in 2014 to be approximately $400 million with EBITDA margins returning the 2012 levels.
This implies an EBITDA swing of about $35 million for 2014.
Not included in quarter end backlog is about $200 million in projects verbally awarded a number of which we are already working under a limited notice to proceed.
Our oil and gas pipeline segment had revenues of $380 million for the first quarter compared to revenues of $319 million in last year’s first quarter.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 9.2% versus 13.3% in last year’s first quarter again result were impacted by weather.
Our outlook for this market remains very bullish as planned project activity for 2015 through 2018 far exceeds what we have seen in the past.
With an increased number of planned U.S.
pipelines a market in Canada it is accelerating in probably the year or two behind the U.S.
in terms of activity and the Mexican market that is going to see an unprecedented expansion of pipeline construction.
The activity levels in North America create a perfect opportunity for us to enjoy strong growth rates well into the future.
For the second quarter we expect strong revenue growth and EBITDA margins consistent with our full year outlook.
Keep in mind in the second quarter of last year oil and gas segment margins exceeded 17% due to mix and close outs making this next quarter a difficult comparison with respect to margins.
We would like to highlight two projects awarded to us during the first quarter; the first was a 160 mile portion of the Cactus pipeline in Texas.
The second project is a 24 inch pipeline that crosses the real grand in the Mexico.
While not material in revenues we believe this is an example of what will be a growing trend as Mexico’s demand for U.S.
natural resources continues to increase.
Overall we expect demand to challenge capacity in this segment and create opportunities for both increased utilization and improved pricing.
To recap we are off to a good start.
We have got strong backlog to support what we believe will be another record year of revenue and earnings.
We are investing in our business for both short and long term growth.
And quite frankly we have never had the number or the quality of the opportunities we are now enjoying.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO George Pita for our financial review.
George?  Thanks Jose and good morning everyone.
Today I will cover first quarter financial results as well as Q2 and full year guidance.
I will also cover our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discussed our financial results and guidance we’ll be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and EBITDA.
Full reconciliations from GAAP results to adjusted results are included in our Form 10-Q and press release tables.
Consistent with prior quarters and for comparative purposes our continuing operations adjusted results exclude the first quarter 2013 loss on extinguishment of debt related to refinancing our senior notes due 2017; the final Sintel Spanish litigation charge recorded in 2013; and they also exclude non-cash stock-based compensation expense for all periods.
Before I get into detailed remarks let me share a quick overview of our Q1 results and current 2014 expectations.
As mentioned on the year end call and as I’m sure many of you are well aware we experienced typical winter weather disruptions during January and February of 2014 which were broad-based across the majority of the U.S.
and impacted profitability across all our segments.
In our master service agreement or MSA businesses these disruptions delayed revenue and billing milestone achievement as the signed work was delayed.
In our non-MSA or project based businesses disruptions impacted our ability to be on site at many jobs our ability to start-up new jobs our productivity when on site and our change order processing and billing milestones.
First quarter 2014 results were in line with our expectations given the adverse weather conditions.
We expect improved performance in the second quarter as we work to normalize Q1 weather impacts as well as a strong second half of 2014.
And today we are reaffirming our full year continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and net income guidance ranges.
Now let me cover some detail regarding first quarter performance.
First quarter 2014 revenue was $964 million up $45 million or 5% from last year despite being negatively impacted by winter weather disruptions.
Highlights include a 19% growth in our oil and gas segment and a 5% increase in our communications segment driven by 27% increase in wireless projects.
Also of note we had a $35 million year-over-year revenue decline in our power generation segment which was expected due to a tough quarterly comparison.
As last year we had several commercial industrial projects in process.
And in 2014 the majority of the work in this segment will be related to wind renewable energy projects.
And these projects don’t typically startup until summer.
As Jose already mentioned despite this revenue decline the power generation segment reported positive EBITDA in Q1.
And we continue to forecast significant year-over-year 2014 EBITDA improvement in this segment.
First quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization as a percentage of revenue increased 100 basis points at 87.2% of revenue compared to 86.2% last year.
And that’s as a result of the previously mentioned winter weather disruption impacts on our project profitability.
Depreciation and amortization expense was flat compared to last year at 3.5% of revenue.
First quarter GAAP general and administrative expenses including non-cash stock compensation as a percentage of revenue increased by 20 basis points to 5.5% of revenue compared to 5.3% last year.
Non-cash stock compensation caused a year-over-year 10 basis point increase in GAAP general and administrative expense.
First quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $75 million compared to $81 million in 2013.
On a rate basis first quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 7.8% compared to 8.9% last year.
And these results were obviously impacted by winter weather disruptions.
Highlights during the quarter include positive results in the power generation segment which is the first time in the past 5 quarters.
And as we previously indicated we expect increasing levels of EBITDA for this segment during the balance of 2014 as wind project activity commences in the summer.
Interest expense during the quarter was $12 million compared to $10 million last year.
And as a reminder first quarter 2014 results include a full quarter of interest expense related to the $400 million in senior notes issued late in Q1 of 2013 while Q1 2013 only had interest expense associated with these notes for approximately two weeks.
Thus interest comparisons are a bit of apples and oranges for this quarter.
First quarter continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.21 compared to $0.29 a year ago again including the impacts of the weather disruptions as well as interest expenses -- higher interest expense compared to prior year.
Now let me discuss a summary of our top 10 largest customers for the first quarter as a percentage of revenue.
AT&amp;T was 22%; Enbridge was 14%; DIRECTV was 14%; Duke Energy was 5%; Energy Transfer Company was 5%; MidAmerican Energy was 4%; and ATCO Group BHP Billiton Starwood Energy and Talisman Energy were each at 2% of total revenue.
As a reminder our revenue is split between one-time individual construction projects and what we call master service agreements and other similar contracts for generally recurring services and therefore recurring revenues.
For Q1 53% of our revenue came from master service agreements or other similar contracts and 47% came from one-time individual construction projects.
Also it should be noted that with many of our customers we do significant number of repeat follow-on individual projects.
I’d like to highlight that as even though our one-time individual project revenue is growing we do enjoy very large and stable revenue base from master service agreements.
At quarter-end our 18 month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.2 billion up approximately $91 million on a sequential basis over Q4.
The comparable number from Q1 last year was $3.5 billion so year-over-year backlog growth approximated 22%.
As we stated number of times be careful not to over analyze changes in quarter-end backlog numbers.
Backlog numbers can be lumpy and bounce around some and we do not believe the 90 day swings in backlog are necessarily indicative of the longer-term trends in the overall business or in each of our segments.
Please keep in mind that the timing of backlog amounts can fluctuate just due to the timing of when contracts get signed.
We do not count contracts signed after quarter end in our reported backlog.
And of course we do not count verbal assurances.
Also especially in oil and gas we have significant amounts of book and burn work.
And therefore our backlog amounts in that segment are not really indicative of future revenue.
Lastly please note that our backlog numbers are for only 18 months into the future.
And that means that some significant and longer duration projects may not fully be reflected in backlog as well as our master service agreement work is only reflected on 18 months period even if the master service agreement contract runs beyond that 18 month timeframe.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
Liquidity at March 31 calculated as cash for plus availability on our bank credit line was $496 million compared to $585 million at year end.
We have a $750 million credit facility which under certain circumstances we can upsize to $1 billion.
We believe that our capital structure is well position to support multiple futures organic and other growth opportunities in 2014 and beyond.
Regarding our capital structure at quarter end we had $1.37 billion in total equity $885 million in net debt and all of our credit ratios are in great shape.
In April both Moody’s and S&amp;P reaffirmed our current debt ratings with stable outlooks.
Our Q1 accounts receivable day sales outstanding for DSOs where 101 days compared to 80 days for Q4 a 21 day increase.
DSOs at the end of our first quarter were abnormally high as winter weather disruptions delayed our ability to reach building milestones on multiple jobs.
In addition first quarter DSOs were also impacted by higher than normal level of change orders that were in process of resolution which increased approximately $84 million over year-end levels.
The majority of this increase was due to large pipeline project which amount have been agreed to in principle subsequent to quarter end.
Resolution of this amount was delayed as harsh weather and other factors delayed completion and testing of our pipeline segment and change orders could not be resolved until completion and testing was reached.
Accordingly we expect to see reduced level of DSOs by the end of our second quarter and continue with the expectation that DSOs should normally range between the high 70s to mid to high 80s which generally puts us lower than our peers.
That said remember that as a single point calculation DSOs can bounce around based on individual big project payment terms and a timing of job start-ups and job close outs.
Regarding our spending on capital equipment first quarter cash CapEx net of disposals was $32 million and we added approximately $14 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $46 million.
These levels are generally in line with our previously stated CapEx guidance $190 million to $200 million comprised of approximately 50% cash CapEx and 50% capital leases or equipment financing.
Moving on to our 2014 full year guidance we have slightly raised our current annual revenue estimate to $4.7 billion to $4.8 billion while reaffirming continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $520 million to $525 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.27 to $2.30.
The 2014 revenue estimate represents an 8.7% to 11% increase over 2013 with a 16% to 17% increase in continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and a 20% to 21% increase in continuing operations adjusted earnings per share.
Implicit in this guidance the 50 to 70 basis point improvement in our 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margins to 10.9% of revenue -- 10.9% to 11.1% of revenue compared to 10.4% in 2013.
A significant driver of adjusted EBITDA margin rate expansion target in ‘14 is the expectation of strong second half results inclusive of the strong turnaround in the power generation segment as wind activity escalates.
Our 2014 full year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 38% we expect 2014 interest expense levels to approximate 2013 levels at about $46.5 million reflecting a full year of interest carrying cost on the 400 million senior unsecured notes issue early in 2013.
With interest expense decreasing in the back half of 2014 as the convertible notes mature and we take advantage of the interest rate arbitrage of refinancing these notes with cash flow and our revolver.
We currently expect 2014 depreciation and amortization expense will approximate 2013 levels on a rate basis.
Our estimate for full year share count for diluted EPS is about 87.3 million shares and 87.4 million for Q2.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price.
Because of the accounting for our 215 million in convertible notes.
Approximately 115 million of the convertible notes mature in June of which 105 million principal value of these notes will be settled in cash with the balance sold in shares.
We also have 100 million of convertible notes maturing in December which can be sold at MasTec’s option in either all cash all stock or combination of cash and stock.
We’ve accounted for all convertible notes based on the intent that we will retire the principal amount of these notes in cash and will issue shares for the premium value of the conversion feature of the notes.
Accordingly we’ve included shares anticipated to be issued to retire the premium value of these notes in our weighted average share calculation as of Q1 and therefore the maturity of these notes are not expected to have any significant dilutive effect to projected 2014 earnings per share.
We will however continue to evaluate our options for the settlement of the notes due in December based on our stock price and potential uses of cash for CapEx and in any M&amp;A transactions.
Given the expected strong cash flow in 2014 coupled with our ample liquidity position we expect that we can easily repay the principle amounts on all convertible notes utilizing 2014 expected cash flow and our existing revolver which assuming the continuation of current interest rates would result in lower overall interest expense levels in the back half of 2014.
We currently estimate Q2 revenue in the range of $1.150 billion to $1.2 billion an increase range in between 18% to 23% over last year.
We estimate continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $124 million compared to $110 million during the second quarter of last year.
On a rate basis this equates to a range of 10.3% to 10.8% compared to 11.2% last year.
With this decrease primarily due to a tough rate comparison in our oil and gas segment from last year we benefited from some project close outs.
Lastly we’re expecting Q2 continuing operations adjusted earnings per share at $0.53.
Our guidance reflects our normal seasonality as well as some anticipated revenue acceleration as we make up some of the first quarter delays.
Based on our first half year guidance if you do the math that means that broadly speaking we expect strong EBITDA margin growth approximately 170 basis points in the back half of 2014 and this is driven by expected margin rate improvements in our Power Generation segment as wind project activity hit the stride coupled with incremental margin rate improvement in all our other segments.
In summary 2014 start out as expected.
However with the bad weather behind us now we are well position in multiple growing markets and expect 2014 will be another record year.
That concludes my remarks and now I’ll turn the call over back to the operator for any questions and answers.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Good morning guys.
Hey good morning Andy.
Good morning.
So Jose you have been pretty careful to speak at least somewhat generically about the wireline fiber opportunity but given the conversations you have had with your customers and the increased chatter really just over the last couple of months what is your confidence level that you could see a significant ramp-up in revenue in 2015 maybe even a couple hundred million dollars? I don’t want to put words in your mouth but I am going to try.
Well if you take a step back I think the most exciting part of the opportunity is the fact of its size and scope for everybody in the industry.
I think everybody that’s in this industry that participates on that side is going to benefit it’s such a large opportunity.
So we are obviously really excited about it.
There is a number of different carriers that are talking about their plans for the next couple of years.
So the answer Andy is yes we do expect to participate.
I think it is premature to put numbers to it but it’s obviously we are comfortable in saying it’s a big opportunity and its size and a scale.
And one that at least for our segment of that business which is pretty small and dramatically moves the needle for them.
Okay.
So I would ask you another big picture question unfortunately.
So also I know it’s early but in the news over the last couple of days has been talk of consolidation amongst some of your big customers.
How do you look at that Jose what’s the risk there that these guys would consolidate a little bit their CapEx plans overtime? And I know they do different things.
So I am confident that you still would have a lot of work but maybe you could comment on potential consolidation amongst some of your big customers? Well obviously AT&amp;T’s our biggest customer DIRECTV bounces between being our second or third largest customer and I think that’s really long for a question.
Look I mean there are both customers that we have we think our excellent relationships with.
We have demonstrated over the years our ability to grow with both customers it’s a very different skill set that they perform today.
So it’s I think if you thought about what could potentially happen to DIRECTV over the last couple of years.
There has been so many rumors so many different articles and announcements overtime.
I really almost can envision and better partner there was ever a merger of companies than those two for us because of the relationships that we have at both companies.
Got it.
Okay.
Well thank you Jose.
Thanks Andy.
Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal.
Hi Marc it is certain to take me off the Christmas card so I will try to keep it to two questions.
Alright Tahira.
Thanks.
So the first one is really in regards to your earnings trajectory.
Jose can you talk a bit about the visibility you have on that ramp on the wind side for the second half which is important versus the last earnings call? Look I think when it comes to Power Gen in our wind business we feel really good we’ve been feeling really good for a long time.
Everything that we feel that we’re working on and have isn’t necessarily in backlog which was part of the commentary that we made earlier.
So we feel great in terms of what we know we have and what we need to hit to hit our numbers.
So we really don’t have a lot of concerns there it’s a bit swing from last year things just started off really well.
I think we’re pleased with the amount of activity and work that we’re actually already starting to book for 2015.
So we’re starting to feel much better about that year as well.
So I think we’ve got a great two year outlook in that business and don’t have a lot of concerns.
In summary if we look at the year we haven’t really changed our views on Q3 and Q4 a lot.
We think that revenues are going to kind of be where we expected them to be margins are going to kind of be where we expected them.
First half is coming in a little bit softer than what we probably thought six months ago partly due to the weather in Q1.
The wireless business is especially with not so much with AT&amp;T but with Sprint it is taking a little bit longer and I think it’s going to push out which is more into the second half of the year.
So we feel great about the second half.
We feel good about what we’ve guided for the first half of the year you blended in and it slightly reduces our full year EBITDA rate from where it was.
But we’re feeling great about the year.
All right.
And then the second question is more just on industry dynamics.
Over the past week or so we’ve had some of your larger E&amp;C bid talk about how it’s getting bigger on the wireless side of the business and the pipeline side of the business.
And so any comment over there would have? And then yesterday Berkshire announced that they will be acquiring a stake of [AzerBank] the big transmission entity in Canada.
I know you’ve been looking to get bigger in Canada could your relationship with Berkshire potentially help you there?  So on the first question for a long time we’ve been penetrating markets and really kind of creating big market share in areas where others weren’t looking.
And I think we did a really good job at that for a long time or we are kind of flattered that people think that we’re in good in our businesses if somebody’s big companies want to get into what we’re doing.
With that said we think our competitive position in those markets is at a point where we’re happy to see income because we think we’re going to do very well in those markets regardless we’re not really worried about who might or might not be entering any particular market and our competitive advantage in those markets.
As it relates to your second question we obviously have a really good relationship of with now Berkshire Hathaway.
We’ve done a lot of work for them.
It’s obviously a big announcement we’ve talked over the course of the last I guess number of quarters of our interest to continue to grow our presence in Canada.
It is an important market for us both on the pipeline side and the transmission market.
We have got plans in place on how we can get bigger and continue to expand in that marketplace and hopefully as the next couple of quarters will allow will be able to demonstrate and talk about that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Tahira.
Alex Rygiel of FBR Capital Markets has our next question.
Jose congratulations to you and your team on a great quarter.
Thank you Alex.
Could you do me a favor and expand a little bit upon the activities with your second largest wireless customer which I suspect is Sprint and maybe quantify the contract or identify geographically what part of the country this is going to cover and maybe be a little bit more specific in when activities will ramp up later this year? What I can say is obviously something we’ve been working on for a long time something we probably expected to happen earlier in the year and for lots of reasons has been a little bit delayed.
So we expect construction start to be a little bit delayed as well.
We do expect that to ramp late in the second quarter.
So we are seeing we will be mobilizing soon.
There is not a lot more that I can say right now and unfortunately this has all happened relatively quickly in real-time so hopefully on our next call I can provide you with a lot more detail.
Okay.
And then secondly as it relates to pipeline opportunity specifically in Mexico obviously a very large E&amp;C contract recently announced the los Romanos award how do you view competition in Mexico and some of those bigger projects and how MasTec can fit or play in that market? Look what’s interesting is their announcement was for a piece of los Romanos is for the southern piece.
los Romanos is obviously a very big and well publicized project in Mexico.
But what’s interesting is there a number of projects that are of similar size scope and scale that are going to be happening a large number actually and one that the current infrastructure we think in country can support.
So it opens the door for all kinds of contractors to take advantage of that.
We think it’s a great opportunity for us it’s one that we’re actively engaged in.
What I think is important about the announcement that was made was the size and scale of what you’re going to see in Mexico I think you’re going to see a lot of those.
I think we’re going to have the opportunity to compete on a number of those and we feel real good about the ability that we have to win some of those.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alex.
Noelle Dilts of Stifel has our next question.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Noelle.
It was nice to see the strong $97 million contribution from acquired operations in oil and gas with that entirely big country.
And then given that strong start has that changed your full year expectation at all for the division? And you kind of reference that you’re making some progress on maybe getting into the long haul work in Canada do you think you can do that organically or is that still a market where you feel you have to make an acquisition?  So they obviously had a good quarter.
They have been performing well we’ve been saying all along that we’re really excited about not just big country but the Canadian market in general.
They are a great company with the great team and we are proud to have them.
We expect them to have a very good year.
It was the bulk of our growth and in the oil and gas from the acquisitive perspective.
As it pretends to long haul it’s not what we’re doing today it’s not the market we’re generating revenues on but obviously it’s a piece that we’ve talked about in the past something that we do want to get into it’s we’re trying as hard as we can to do that organically and I think we can achieve it organically.
If the right opportunity came along we would definitely consider it.
But I think at this point we are looking to expand in that area organically.
Okay.
And then second just given your continued investment in training tower crews can you talk a bit about the size of your tower funding [workforce] stay where you stand in terms of self-perform and your goal in terms of self-perform work? Well our big task today is we have to fuel the 212 crews that we committed to our largest customer we’re well on our way of doing that.
At some point in the second quarter we’ll probably be almost halfway there.
Obviously it creates a strain or we are spending a lot of upfront money to train and get those crews ready and outfit them and get them ready to start production.
So we really think we are going to see the benefit of that over time towards the second half of ‘14 and obviously into 2015 it should be -- it should provide for very good returns.
So we are excited about it we are excited about what it means.
Again for us this is more strategic than just one contract or one customer.
We are extremely bullish about what tower climbing means to the industry and the importance of having strong tower climbing capabilities because the way the industry is moving with a lot of maintenance it’s going to end up with tower tops.
And we just think long-term the importance of tower crews is critical to the success of wireless construction companies.
And our goal is to be the biggest tower crew operator in the country.
We think we’re well on our way of being there.
And we think it’s going to pay off for us really well long-term.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Wangler of Wunderlich Securities.
Good morning guys.
Just curious on the pipeline business as you talk about 2015 and then 2018.
Are you still seeing kind of the expectations of us hearing more and more about those awards as we go throughout this year and into ‘15 or what are you thinking as far as that? Well the good thing is we’ve got good visibility we know where the projects are we know who the customers are.
So whether the awards happen in late ‘14 or early ‘15 it’s consistent with what we’ve been saying for a long time and it’s still our expectation.
Okay.
And George if I could ask you just as far as the converts obviously we’re coming up on the first tranche but could you maybe talk about the idea of where debt markets are at and obviously you have the revolver of potentially buying those in cash and adding debt or is that on the table or where you are thinking as far as that going forward? Well the first tranche that’s coming up there is about -- the $115 million of converts that come due in June.
Those effectively will be at this point sold with the principal value in cash and the premium value in shares.
And at this point we’re past the timing to make the decision and that’s effectively been made.
So that’s the way the first chunk will be at.
As far as the amounts that mature in December that’s the amounts that we’re evaluating.
And as I said in my remarks depending on stock price depending on our CapEx spend and most importantly depending on our M&amp;A type activity we have the option to treat -- settle those shares either all cash all stock or some combination thereof and that’s what we’ll continue to evaluate as the time comes near.
I appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Yes hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you hear me? Yes Vishal.
How are you? Hi good.
How are you? Just wanted to talk to you about the wind business.
I know you said 2014 second half weighted; but how should we think about 2015 in light of some of the same issues that you may end up facing with the PTC expiration and you mentioned in your comments that you would have solid visibility in 2015.
Can you just provide some more color on what kind of visibility you have what the activity levels are right now.
And whether you can get back to the profitability levels that you have seen in the past?  Well we think ‘15 is going to be a really good year in that business.
The way that tax credits are working this time around you actually have until the end of ‘15 to construct.
So there are number of projects that are going to be built ‘14 but there is a number of projects that also going to be built in 2015.
So we’ve actually been quite surprised with the backlog that we’ve been generating and creating for 2015 projects.
So it gives us a lot of comfort and visibility into 2015.
It’s still obviously very early so I don’t know that we can give a full year outlook yet but we’re feeling really good.
What happens beyond ‘15 we’ve said for a long time that one of the most important things for us in that business is to continue to diversify we spent a lot of energy and a lot of the revenues that we generated last year we’re on really other types of projects outside of wind we had mix success with that we learned a lot from it we’ve been a lot more selective we have picked up some recent projects that aren’t just wind related as well.
So as we look beyond ‘15 we need to have a lot more diversification in the business we know that we’re working on it.
But the good thing is we’ve got a lot of runway because the next two years from a wind perspective we’re -- we think we operate really well looks really promising.
That’s helpful.
Then your competitor yesterday on the call said that they expect a lot of business in both the transmission and pipeline segment over the next couple of months.
I’m just wondering what kind of activity you are seeing in those two areas and is it mostly U.S.
Canada can you maybe talk about the level of activity you are seeing in transmission and on gas.
Look I think we’ve been very consistent we’re going to see unprecedented levels of activity from ‘15 to 2018 I think it’s going to be as good as it’s ever been.
We think those awards start happening very late in ‘14 early in ‘15 there is a lot going on.
They’re both very healthy markets and markets that obviously we’re very pleased to participate in.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you Vishal.
Dan Mannes of Avondale has the next question.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hey good morning Dan.
First follow-up question.
You have obviously laid out the case for a big ramp of T&amp;D power gen and wireless for the back half of the year.
Can you remind us your expectations on oil and gas in terms of your ability to grow year over year particularly against tough comps? And secondly do you still expect Enbridge to be your biggest customer in oil and gas through the balance of the year? So all along we’ve said that in 2014 it’s going to be a tough comp in oil and gas versus ‘13 we were an early beneficiary of some of the longhaul pipeline construction projects that happen.
With that said we still expect growth in our oil and gas business not the growth levels that we’ve seen in the last couple of years but we do expect some moderate growth over ‘13 that view has not changed it’s exactly where we’ve been for a while.
In reference to Enbridge we expect them to be a top 3 customers for the balance of the year.
They’ve been from anywhere from first to third in the last few quarters and we kind of expect them to stay there and we do expect them to be the biggest customer within the oil and gas segment.
Got it.
And then one other question really on the wireline side.
If you can contrast this at all with maybe the Verizon [fiber] build-out which is I guess the closest thing I can remember.
Can you contrast the scope of the opportunity and then how meaningful that was to you during that period and maybe give us a feeling for how that could play out? Well you got to go back right to the late 90s early 2000 which is one fiber the home first started.
When you’ve got a lot of different players out there today that are talking about 1 gigabit some which have existing networks some that don’t.
So they are very different build out depending on where you stand in the industry because of that because you have some new entrance that don’t necessarily have an existing really don’t have any existing assets on ground the work for them is much more considerable than you would for an existing carrier.
There is a lot of work for both but obviously more when you have nothing.
So I think the size and scope of the opportunities for the industry relative to the early 2000s and what they’re talking about going forward I think it’s much bigger going forward because of that fact.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Dan.
Our next question comes from Will Gabrielski of Stephens Investments.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey good morning.
Can you talk about Mexico a little bit more? Do you need a local partner in Mexico or do you think you can go it alone?  Well I don’t think you can go into a country and not have local participation.
What local participation means is it in form of the partner in form of subcontractors I think it various.
So I think the opportunities there are competitive positioning and the way we think we position to ourselves as we think is really strong and we’ll make that determination probably on a project-by-project basis.
Is your conviction on those margins increasing and what the potential for backlog growth is in that business from where it is right now?  Well we’ve been saying for quarters now that.
If you look at our last six or seven quarters we have had quarters as high as 17% margins in the oil and gas segment which we achieved in the second quarter of last year and actually in one quarter in 2012.
Last year we finished at about 13% for that segment.
We expect the second half of the year to be at those levels the first half is going to be a little bit lighter so we will probably on a full year basis this year looking somewhere between 12.5% and 13% but we have also said as we look longer term in that market in that segment there is no question that margins have a lot of room for improvement.
Some of the reason that you get the higher margins in a particular quarter has all to do with utilization and as there is more work and competitors get full and there is more work available at better prices we feel very confident that overtime our margins will increase in that segment and I don’t think we are the only one saying that.
So I think the visibility in that is really good so I do expect that.
Could you just touch I was actually asking specific to T&amp;D but that was very helpful to the electric transmission business?  I thought you are talking about oil and gas.
But that was helpful so I appreciate it.
Okay I mean T&amp;D is the same thing right as we grow our big project business and we continue to ramp in that business margins we expect margins to improve we have said last year we had a very strong second half of the year we expect to have a very good year this year we have been talking about getting back approaching 2012 levels and we have no change in view there.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
William Bremer of Maxim Group has the next question.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey good morning Bill.
All right let’s go let’s stay with -- let’s go back to pipeline a little bit here.
Can you give us a little more color on an update what you are seeing on the shale side and then of course go into mainline there? The integrity work that you are currently doing and then finally my final question is can you give us an update on how you are preparing for what we are seeing as a huge downstream market primarily in the Gulf region over the next couple years?  Sure.
So the shale business is very strong a lot of activity we think it’s really ramping right now.
First quarter was tough relative to shale a lot of the shale markets were probably more affected by weather.
If you look at our year-over-year comp it’s probably the place where we had the biggest drop in revenues in the first quarter was shale related when you compared to 2013 Q1 and 2014 Q1 with that said it’s a great market a lot of good activity and we expect it to be a really good year.
Our mainline business as we’ve said we were probably an early beneficiary of what was going on there we’ve got a lot of work lot of working coming we think we’re going to do really well there our integrity business is doing well and growing.
And as it relates to the Gulf really as you know we don’t have a big presence there we’re paying a lot of attention to the market we think it’s a very viable market and one that overtime we need to participate in.
But really don’t have anything to publicly say yet.
Can you give us a sense on the contracts you are doing on the integrity side? Well we’re working for everything from the very large companies on large-diameter pipelines in terms of integrity all the way down to municipal type projects where we’re working with distribution companies on integrity work and everything in between.
So it’s not a big chunk of our revenues but it’s obviously one thing it’s a lot of publicity it’s a good long-term market.
I still think there need to be some legislation and government mandates around that in terms of really pushing and taking that market to where it needs to go but one that obviously overtime will be a growing part of everyone’s pipeline business.
Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
Our next question will come from Adam Thalhimer BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Great thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Adam.
Hey Jose in terms of the wireline cycle can you help us understand I mean first of all what you see in terms of bidding now and how do this even play out.
I mean will your customers be bidding out for stakes or maybe bidding out entire cities worth the work or will it be even smaller than that in terms of the project size? So Adam I think you are going to see a combination of everything.
We are not going to get into discussing with what’s actually happen from an [RFP] perspective at any given point but it’s a active market.
And one that we think is going to accelerate in terms of activity.
So lots of opportunities both short and long term and very active marketplace.
So with all that said there is a lot of -- everybody is going to do it a little bit differently everybody is going to have different rules around which can and can’t say so we’re going to probably be very limited on expanding much further than the things we’ve already said.
And how big is that end market for you today in terms of revenue and then what’s the plan is it let’s get some bids and then we’ll start adding capacity and similar to our history will be bigger in that segment than we have them for the last 10 years or so?  Well today is less than 10% of revenues historically it was much greater I think that we’ve got the capabilities in place to do it I think we are really good at it.
But obviously the opportunities for growth haven’t been there.
I mean the reality is that that business is one that was highly impacted by subdivision growth as subdivisions were being built and plant was extended.
There was a lot of work in 2008 crises we saw that dry up and revenues were reduced in that marketplace at a very high cliff.
This is the first time that you have a sizable opportunity that can really turn the tide for those types businesses.
So what it means for each and what it means -- obviously for the industry it means there is going to be a lot more work.
And what it means for each company is going to be depending on their competitiveness and what they can provide and that’s what’s going to play out over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Thanks Jose.
Thanks Adam.
Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets has the next question.
Thank you.
Good morning Jose.
Good morning Liam.
Jose on the with the ramp up of permanent crews and then you’re looking at the next large carrier heading again what do the profits for margin profiles look like compared to your traditional project work in wireless? Well a couple of things we said our margins and wireless over the course of the last few years have really improved.
We were going to through tremendous growth with obviously impacted productivity as you add people and they’re agreeing you don’t get the amount of productivity you do that you get overtime in any facet of the business.
So we’ve seen that and that’s part of the reason why we’ve been performing as well as we have and we have been increasing margins is because we have got more time under our belt.
I think it’s no different with these crews that we’re putting on.
At the end of the day this is a subset of the entire wireless work that we do so it’s not like we’re dramatically changing.
We’re not going to be a total self performed company and we’re not going to be a total outsource company and we’ve never been.
So it’s somewhere in the middle we’re trying to manage that the best way that we can.
But obviously it’s the sizable opportunity for us and overtime margins will improve.
So we’ve got good margins in that business but we’ve been saying for quarters that it’s one area whereas we get a little more time under our belt as the business matures margins will improve.
Okay.
And then on the security business how do see that ramping do you say anything meaningful in this year or is that going to be a 2015 and beyond that?  Well I mean it’s been ramping right.
We said today we think it will approach a $100 million in ‘15 it will probably half of that in ‘14 it was probably half of that in ‘13.
So it’s on a nice ramp trajectory right now.
Great.
Thanks Jose.
Thanks Liam.
The final question comes from John Rogers of Davidson.
I guess Jose or George.
In terms of the margins you’re talking about on the industrial business.
Is that all wind at this point? John it’s predominantly wind it’s not a 100% wind but a large majority of it is wind were last year a large majority was not wind.
So there’s been a big shift in the type of work we’re doing in that business year-over-year.
And in the past Jose you’ve talked about some other opportunities with that segment other end markets.
Any updates there that do you can about? Well sure.
Again it’s not a 100% wind the challenges that we had in 2013 as we were doing a lot of things that we have not done in the past and we didn’t perform as well in those as we should have which is why we really struggled throughout 2013 that end utilization.
So with the opportunities that we are seeing in ‘14 and ‘15 we only have so many resources.
So we are really focused on the things that we do well but recognizing during that period of time that the future when we think about ‘16 and beyond it’s about being diversified.
So I think we are taking a very -- in 2013 we were stuck because there wasn’t any wind.
So we had no choice but to quickly try to diversify the business and get into a lot of things that we were not doing before.
We made some mistakes here we did some things that in a normal environment maybe we would not have done we learned our lesson.
So we are going to take the different approach which is we have what we think now is two years of runway to really diversify and build that so we are being very selective on what we go after we are learning a lot from that.
And I think over the course of the next two years you are going to see us get into some things that are not necessarily wind related and build into what we think is going to be a very solid business for ‘16 and beyond.
Maybe (inaudible) I mean any specific end market that you can talk about at this point? Yes I mean the specific end market is anything related to power generation.
So it is gas fired plants it is even oil and gas facilities work although we do a lot of that within our oil and gas segment there is some things that that group does well and some things we are currently doing.
So I think it’s a mix of power generation assets along with some facility type work on the oil and gas side.
Okay thank you very much.
Congratulations.
Thanks (inaudible).
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Jose Mas for any closing remarks.
I just like to thank everybody for their continued interest in MasTec.
And we look forward to updating you on our next quarterly call.
That concludes today’s conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Welcome to MasTec Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on August 12 2014.
Let me remind participants that today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec’s Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc?  Thank you Anna and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company’s expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today’s remarks by management we will be discussing continuing ops financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday’s press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may make certain non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release our 10-Q our 10-K or in the Investors and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and George Pita our Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks by Jose followed by financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about an hour.
We have a lot of important things to talk about today.
So I’d now turn the call over to Jose.
Jose?  Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec’s 2014 second quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our second quarter results as well as providing an outlook for the markets we serve.
Before getting started I’d like to remind everyone that on June 1 we issued updated guidance for the second quarter.
At that time we identified two areas that were causing some short-term pressure.
The first was wireless projects being deferred from 2014 to 2015 and the second was some softness in pricing in our oil and gas business.
Since that time we have worked hard to understand both the short and long-term impacts of those unexpected changes.
While we are very disappointed with the short-term impact and the corresponding stock price movement we strongly believe in these two markets and their ability to provide MasTec with strong growth opportunities for years to come.
We believe that over the course of the last few years we have built a very solid brand in all of the markets we serve.
I’m encouraged by the number and scale of our current opportunities and I strongly believe that our best days are ahead of us.
Now some second quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.1 billion a 13% increase over the prior year second quarter EBITDA was $106 million earnings per share were $0.40 and cash flow from operations was $76 million.
In summary we had a quarter in line with our June guidance.
Today our organization is focused on getting through 2014 in the most efficient and profitable manner possible while at the same time preparing for 2015 and beyond.
As many of you know over the last couple of years we have made significant investments in both people and equipment to position us to take advantage of the growing opportunities in our markets.
While we are experiencing some short-term challenges we continue to believe that the outlook and demand for our services will accelerate over the course of the next few years.
While Oil &amp; Gas Transmission and Wireless have been our main growth drivers and we expect that to continue we are seeing an improving landscape for the balance of our business.
Our Power Generation group is experiencing a solid uptick in wind-related business.
Our Installation business is experiencing growth in our security initiatives and activity related to 1-gigabit high-speed connectivity for residential customers will be a significant opportunity for MasTec for a long time.
Now I’d like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communication revenue for the quarter was $528 million versus $497 million last year.
While revenues grew 6% year-over-year we were expecting significantly more growth in this segment prior to our updated guidance.
Our installable home revenue was up 7% year-over-year.
The growth was driven by our continued expansion in the security market.
During the quarter we made a small acquisition of a company called Speed Wire.
Speed Wire is a broadband and security installation company that was also a leading digital life installation contractor.
With our combined resources we expect Security revenues to approach $100 million in 2015.
We believe security is a natural extension of our capabilities and we are bullish on its long-term prospects.
Security coupled with in-home automation and energy efficiency is a fragmented market.
Our national reach and scale gives us a strong competitive advantage.
Although Wireline revenues for the quarter were down year-over- year future prospects for that business are as good as we’ve seen in a long time.
As a reminder the Wireline business is where MasTec actually began.
Recent announcements from multiple carriers about 1-gigabit speeds to residential customers will require a significant fiber expansion.
Our history experience and geographic coverage make this a sizable opportunity for us.
Subsequent to quarter end we have been awarded approximately $0.25 billion worth of 1-gigabit fiber work.
We expect revenue contribution from those awards to be minimal in 2014 but significant in 2015 and 2016.
We also expect further awards before year-end and continue to believe that the work associated with 1-gigabit roll-outs across the country will be a significant opportunity for both MasTec and its peers.
Our Wireless revenue was up 12% in the second quarter compared to last year’s second quarter.
This was considerably less growth than what we were expecting prior to our updated guidance.
As we talked about on our June 2 call a number of our wireless projects were deferred out of 2014.
With our ramp and resources to meet the expected growth these deferrals negatively impacted not only our growth but also our margin profile as utilization levels were below what we expected.
While we have adjusted our workforce and continue to closely manage our workforce levels compared to our expected revenue levels the reality is that these challenges will continue to negatively affect our financial performance through year end.
We are however very optimistic that the need for our service and the future workload levels that the industry requires are significant.
We believe that carriers will continue to use our networks as a point of differentiation.
Wireless network continue to grow and evolve and we expect to play an important part of that ongoing evolution.
As a result we believe we have positioned ourselves very well in the market and we are confident in our ability to considerably grow this business in years to come as we have demonstrated in the past.
Revenue in our Electrical Transmission business was $115 million versus $119 million in the last year’s second quarter.
While total transmission revenues were flattish year-over-year our large project work is up considerably thus the improvement in margins.
While the mix of our work will shift from quarter-to-quarter our long-term goal is to increase the amount of large project work that we perform.
We expect strong year-over-year growth in the second half of the year and the pipeline of opportunities is strong.
Moving to our Power Generation &amp; Industrial segment revenue was $95 million for the second quarter versus $63 million in the prior year and EBITDA margins for this segment improved by $12 million year-over-year.
We are on track for a much improved 2014.
We expect revenues in 2014 to be approximately $400 million with EBITDA margins returning to 2012 levels.
This implies an EBITDA swing of about $35 million for 2014.
In addition we have already been awarded over $200 million in projects for 2015 which are not included in our backlog.
Our Oil &amp; Gas Pipeline segment had revenues of $366 million for the second quarter compared to revenues of $297 million in last year’s second quarter.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 9.8% up from 9.2% sequentially.
As I commented earlier we saw pressure in margins during the quarter and we were hoping to be closer to 12% prior to our updated guidance.
We expect margins to improve in the second half and approach last year’s levels.
With that said we are very excited and bullish about the long-term prospects in our Oil &amp; Gas business.
We expect a dramatic increase in activity levels.
The market is extremely active in North America and we are in dialogue on a number of opportunities and projects that will be built over the next three to five years.
Also I’m very excited about our previously announced second-quarter acquisition of Pacer Construction.
Pacer is a Canadian contractor in the heart of Alberta’s oil sands specializing in a wide array of key services including mechanical structural fabrication civil and foundation work.
Their foundation capabilities and their past performance on transmission jobs is an important addition to our capabilities in Canada.
To recap despite the challenges we face in 2014 I feel strongly we have positioned this company in the right markets at the right time.
I’m convinced that 2014 is not reflective of our earnings potential.
I’m looking forward to getting this year behind us and executing on the opportunities ahead of us.
I’d now like to turn the call over to our CFO George Pita for our financial review.
George? Thank you Jose and good morning everyone.
Today I’ll cover second quarter financial results Q3 and full-year guidance along with our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
Full reconciliations from GAAP results to adjusted results are included in our Form 10-Q and press release tables.
Consistent with prior quarters our continuing operations adjusted results exclude the first quarter 2013 loss on extinguishment of debt related to refinancing our senior notes due 2017 the final Sintel Spanish litigation charge recorded in the second quarter of 2013 and they also exclude non-cash stock-based compensation expense for all periods.
Before I get into detailed results here are some highlights for the quarter.
Second quarter results were in line with our guidance issued in early June despite pressure in our Communications and Oil &amp; Gas segments.
We had strong cash flow from operations during the quarter and reduced our DSOs when compared to Q1 2014 by nine days.
We improved our capital structure during the quarter increasing our financial flexibility and reducing our future financing costs on a rate basis and we completed a strategic acquisition of Pacer in Canada.
Now let me cover some details regarding second quarter performance.
Second quarter 2014 revenue was $1.1 billion up $127 million or 13% from last year.
Highlights include a 6% increase in Communications a 23% increase in our Oil &amp; Gas segment and a 49% increase in our Power Generation segment.
While the Communications segment as Jose already noted grew second quarter Wireless project revenue increased 12%.
We initially anticipated that revenue growth levels in these projects would approximate our first quarter growth levels of almost 30%.
Thus when Wireless revenues growth unexpectedly slowed coupled with the fixed cost nature of our organizational infrastructure it significantly impacted our initially anticipated second quarter results.
While second quarter 2014 Communications segment EBITDA margin improved sequentially 130 basis points over first quarter levels to 11% it declined 180 basis points when compared to second quarter 2013 levels.
As we indicated in yesterday’s press release our guidance for the remainder of 2014 incorporates the expectation that second half 2014 Wireless revenues will decline when compared to last year leading to an overall Communications segment expected revenue percentage decline in the second half of 2014 in the low double-digit range when compared to the second half of last year.
We currently anticipate that revenue declines will be slightly greater in the fourth quarter as opposed to the third quarter due to the timing of project completions.
We also anticipate that despite lower expected revenue levels second half 2014 EBITDA margin for the Communications segment will improve 30 to 50 basis points over first half 2014 levels.
Second quarter 2014 Oil &amp; Gas segment revenue grew 23% over last year and our EBITDA margin in this segment grew sequentially 60 basis points over first quarter 2014 levels to 9.8% of revenue.
When compared to the second quarter of 2013 Oil &amp; Gas segment EBITDA margin declined 740 basis points as we are comparing against a 17.2% EBITDA margin last year.
It is important to note that we have previously indicated that second quarter 2013 Oil &amp; Gas EBITDA margin was higher than normal and we never anticipated that second quarter 2014 EBITDA margin rates would approach last year’s level.
Thus while we have indicated that we’ve experienced some margin pressure during the second quarter of 2014 the great majority of the decline in the second quarter Oil &amp; Gas segment EBITDA margin versus second quarter of 2013 is due to the difficult comp versus last year.
Looking forward we anticipate that second half 2014 Oil &amp; Gas revenues will approximate last year’s levels with a slower fourth quarter due to the expectation that significant long-haul project awards won’t begin until 2015.
We also anticipate that second half 2014 Oil &amp; Gas segment EBITDA margin will improve significantly over first half 2014 levels somewhere in the range of 200 to 240 basis points.
This level includes the impact of our recent Canadian acquisition Pacer whose EBITDA margin is slightly lower than our historical segment average.
As a result of the previously mentioned impacts on our Communication and Oil &amp; Gas segments second quarter 2014 cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization increased 200 basis points to 86.1% of revenue compared with 84.1% last year.
Second quarter 2014 depreciation and amortization expense was slightly lower than second quarter 2013 at 3.3% of revenue compared to 3.4% last year.
Second quarter 2014 GAAP general and administrative expenses including non-cash stock compensation decreased 40 basis points at 4.9% of revenue compared to 5.3% of revenue in the second quarter of 2013.
Second quarter 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $106 million compared with $110 million last year.
On a rate basis second quarter 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was 9.6% compared to 7.8% in the first quarter of 2014 and 11.2% last year.
This represents a 180 basis point sequential improvement over first quarter 2014’s rate and 160 basis point decrease compared to the second quarter of 2013 with this decrease due to the previously mentioned declines in Communications and Oil &amp; Gas segments.
It is noteworthy to mention that our Power Generation segment continued its improvement reporting a positive $4 million EBITDA in the second quarter of 2014 and we expect continued improvement in EBITDA in this segment during the second half of 2014 as wind project activity accelerates.
We also had a very strong second quarter 2014 EBITDA margin performance in our Electrical Transmission segment at 14.9% of revenue due to recognition of a year-to-date project improvement.
This rate is slightly higher than what we would expect to see in this segment during the second half of 2014.
Interest expense during the second quarter of 2014 was $12.9 million compared to $11.8 million last year which is flat on a rate basis when compared to last year at 1.2% of revenue.
During the quarter we retired our $115 million principal amount of senior convertible notes financed the Pacer acquisition and increased our revolver to $1 billion.
I will cover these items in more detail when discussing our liquidity position.
Now I will discuss a summary of our 10 largest customers for second quarter 2014 as a percentage of revenue.
AT&amp;T was 25% DIRECTV was 12% Berkshire Hathaway Energy was 9% Enbridge was 8% Energy Transfer Company was 6% Plains All American Pipeline was 3% CenturyLink and Duke Energy were each 2% of revenues and Arizona Public Service and Starwood Energy were each at 1% of total revenue.
Individual construction projects comprised 49% of our second quarter revenue with Master Service Agreements comprising 51% and this mix is generally in line with recent trends.
At quarter end our 18-month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $3.9 billion compared to $4.1 billion last year and $4.2 billion as of Q1 2014.
As indicated in our 10-Q the decline in backlog compared to Q1 2014 was all comprised of reduced Communications segment backlog.
This was driven by reduced backlog level in wireless project MSA work.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
We had strong cash flow from operations during second quarter of 2014 generating $76 million compared to a cash usage from operations during the second quarter of 2013 of $3 million.
On a year-to-date basis we have generated $55 million in cash flow from operations compared to $23 million last year a $32 million improvement.
Due to our seasonality we typically generate more cash flow from operations during the second half of the year.
For full-year 2013 we generated $200 million in cash flow from operations and we expect to slightly exceed this level in 2014.
Our second-quarter 2014 accounts receivable days outstanding or DSOs were 92 days compared to 101 days for the first quarter of 2014 a nine day decrease.
We indicated last quarter that DSO levels were higher than normal due to winter weather disruptions and increased levels of change orders and process of resolution and those items have been collected in the second quarter.
Looking forward with the addition of Pacer we expect that DSOs should normally range in the mid-to-high 80s.
Regarding our spending on capital equipment second quarter 2014 cash CapEx net of disposals was $27 million.
We added approximately $36 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $63 million.
Year-to-date we have incurred $59 million of cash CapEx net of disposals and added $50 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $109 million.
We are moderating our planned CapEx spend in the second half of 2014 and now estimate that we will spend approximately $85 million to $95 million in cash CapEx in 2014 with an additional $80 million in finance CapEx for a total CapEx of $165 million to $175 million inclusive of Pacer.
Liquidity as of June 30 calculated as cash plus availability on our senior revolving credit facility was $485 million compared to $496 million at the end of the first quarter.
During the second quarter we increased the size of our revolving senior credit -- revolving credit facility from $750 million to $1 billion and added the capability to borrow funds in Mexican pesos.
We also retired $115 million principal amount of senior convertible notes that matured and converted in June which lowers our financing cost rate going forward.
Our overall net debt level as of June 30 was approximately $1.5 billion reflecting the June acquisition of Pacer.
As previously indicated we anticipate strong cash flow from operations in the second half of 2014 which absent further M&amp;A or other capital market activity should reduce our debt levels to approximately $1 billion with the majority of this decline expected during our fourth quarter.
Our capital structure and liquidity are strong allowing us the financial flexibility to pursue various strategic alternatives in North America.
Moving on to our 2014 full-year guidance we are now projecting annual revenue of $4.4 billion to $4.5 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $420 million to $425 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.55 to $1.58.
Our full-year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 38%.
Including the impact of the Pacer acquisition we expect second half 2014 interest expense levels to approximate $12.5 million per quarter and that second half 2014 depreciation and amortization will approximate 3.5% of revenue.
Our estimate for the full-year share count per diluted EPS is about 86.4 million shares and 86 million for Q3.
Remember that our share count for EPS purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for our remaining $100 million in convertible notes most of which can be settled at our option in either all-cash all-stock or a combination of cash and stock.
We have accounted for all optional settlement convertible notes based on the intent that we will retire the principal amount of these notes in cash and we will issue shares for the premium value of the conversion feature of these notes.
We currently estimate third-quarter 2014 revenue will range between $1.3 billion and $1.35 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $132 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.56 per share.
In summary we have a rough start to 2014 but we believe that the 2015 outlook is strong and we are well positioned to capitalize on various growth opportunities with an excellent workforce and expanded presence in Canada and a strong capital structure.
That concludes my remarks and now I’ll turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go first to Noelle Dilts of Stifel.
So I understand that it's somewhat early but I do want to dig into some of the drivers of improvement in 2015 given that I think that's what is most important to investors at this point.
So in the press release you state that you anticipate wireless revenues returning to a normalized level in 2015.
But I'm curious as to kind of how you are thinking about normalized given the strong growth we've seen in that business over the past few years ranging by my estimate from around $600 million to $866 million from ‘10 to ‘13.
And I think you were looking for revenues of about $1 billion this year.
So some thoughts on what you mean by normalized would be great.
And then when do you anticipate seeing a rebound? Is it going to be early in ‘15 more back-half loaded? Curious on your thoughts there.
Thanks.
Sure.
We’re not in a position obviously to talk about 2015 guidance.
We spent a lot of time over the course of the last month really trying to understand all of our wireless businesses all of the customer opportunities that are out there.
It’s obviously a dynamic field where there is a lot of changes happening the Sprint/T-Mobile acquisition falling apart and what Sprint I think is ultimately going to do and the investment that they are going to make in their networks I think is a big positive for us and something that hopefully we can take advantage of.
If you go back to our original outlook for 2014 and where we were expecting our Wireless business to be we were actually probably expecting our Wireless business to be closer to about $1.2 billion.
We’ll probably end up somewhere in the $900s-million maybe the low $900s-million and if I had to guess today and if things go our way and with the outlook and what we see today and what we think 2015 is going to look like we would hope to try to get it back to the levels that we expected to get to in 2014.
And then second question just looking at the Pacer acquisition can you talk a little bit about how much accretion you are now including for Pacer in your ‘14 guidance and how we should think about accretion on an ongoing basis? And then could you comment on when you are looking at the soft oil and gas margins in the quarter was that diluted by maybe breakeven or a loss at Pacer given that you closed on the acquisition in the quarter? No I mean Pacer didn’t really generate a lot for the second quarter.
When we look at the full year from Pacer we’ve got a lot of amortization expenses especially flowing through in 2014 so it’s slightly accretive but it’s not massively accretive in 2014.
As we look beyond 2014 it’s a solid company we are excited about what they are doing they are growing their business they’ve made some investments in joint ventures as well.
So if you look at Pacer and you look at the purchase price that we paid I think there is two important things to know.
One they had a lot of working capital relative to the size of their business and part of it we think we’re going to get back in terms of improving working capital but there is also a portion of that which was investments in joint ventures of companies that they own minority positions in or let’s say say 50% positions in which we think our businesses are going to grow over time but they are performing very well they have a very bright outlook and obviously if you look at our 2015 numbers we are going to get a full year of Pacer.
We’ll probably see from that about $150 million pop in ‘15 versus ‘14 based on a full year so we’re excited about it.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Alex Rygiel of FBR.
Thank you Jose and thank you for a lot of the detail on a conference call.
I do appreciate it.
Couple of questions.
First for a number of years your full-year EBITDA target has been getting ratcheted up.
And most recently I think your past target was 10%.
You are going to fall a little bit below that this year.
But could you talk about sort of your company-wide full EBITDA target? Can you get to 10% to 2015? Can you get a lot higher in 2015? If you could address that topic please.
Sure.
If you go back to the beginning of this year we were obviously hoping to be better than where we’re going to end up.
I think we had an internal target of in the low-11s.
So if you look at 2015 and where we’re headed we definitely think we can get to 10%.
We think we’ve demonstrated that in the past.
But I think as the market improves as we see growth in our Pipeline business as our Wireless business comes back to normal the opportunity for margin improvement is there and we hope to take advantage of that.
Secondly it sounds like you have got a lot of confidence about many of the opportunities ahead of you.
You did mention Canada a number of times as it related to Pacer and as it related to other opportunities.
Can you sort of address the Canadian opportunity over the next two to three years in a little bit more detail? I think in the last year we’ve made a lot of investments there.
We obviously bought Pacer we bought Big Country last year.
We are very bullish on the oil and gas sector in Canada and what’s going to happen there both in the short and long term.
There has been a lot of obviously press and dialogue on what’s happening in the transmission market in Canada.
It’s a market that we haven’t necessarily penetrated.
We think Pacer helps us with our ability to do that.
So we are very encouraged in both of those markets.
I think they offer an enormous amount of potential for the industry and we hope to take advantage of our share there.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Jose so your oil and gas backlog rose.
But if you exclude Pacer it was probably down which means it essentially has been flat or down in each quarter for a year now.
And you have talked about that so that's not unexpected.
But you have also talked about larger bookings starting to hit late this year and next year.
And you also know about all the chatter that has been out there regarding MasTec's relationship with certain large pipeline customers.
So maybe you could talk about your confidence level that backlog in the business is going to increase going forward and maybe talk about timing? Sure.
The challenge for us in oil and gas has always been when -- last year we were an early beneficiary of the long-haul construction starting.
We obviously were awarded large contracts which obviously moved the needle significantly on backlog.
I think that’s how it’s going to happen.
I think we’re going to get some very large award that’s going to increase the backlog in a sizable way.
You’re going to work that off over time and you get another sizable award and it ratchets it up again.
So I don’t think you’re going to see consistent predictable growth in backlog in that sector because I don’t think that’s the way it’s contracted at least in our business.
So we’re going to have sizable awards it’s going to move the needle.
We are going to work off some of that.
Hopefully we’ll be able to continue to replace that and grow that over time and that’s how we expect it to happen.
Our outlook on that has not changed.
We expect the backlog to be down as we work through some of the larger jobs we were doing in 2014.
We expect to replenish that in the short to near-term and really our outlook on that hasn’t changed one bit.
Okay fine.
And then Jose it looks like you have guided to about a 20% drop-off in revenue in 4Q versus 3Q versus the usual drop-off around 10%.
And you gave good color around those communications being a little lower in 4Q the same thing with oil and gas in terms of timing.
Is that all this is? I guess the issue that we have is that -- can Communications can that business pick up pretty quickly as you go into the first half of next year because maybe 1-gigabit really starts up pretty quickly next year because it looks like you have to pick up pretty quickly from probably some weather-induced 4Q issues as well.
The short answer is yes.
When you look at our Wireless business we were on pace to obviously have a very good year and to have a year just like what we were expecting.
With a lot of the deferrals that happened it’s obviously impacting the second half of the year much greater than it’s in the first half of the year and it’s impacting the fourth quarter probably more than any other particular quarter of the year and the reason is we’re working as much of the work as we can now.
As we finish that work to the extent that that work doesn’t get replenished in calendar year ‘14 it creates an issue for us and you are seeing that in the fourth quarter.
So the biggest driver of our fourth-quarter drop is the fact that we’ve got a considerable reduction of Wireless revenues both of where we’ve been on a year-over-year basis and more importantly where it was versus original expectations.
So that’s by far the biggest driver in Q4.
We expected our oil and gas business to be down slightly in Q4 on a year-over-year basis when we first put our guidance in the year so that’s not unexpected.
It’s maybe slightly lower than what we were originally expecting but the reality is that our biggest driver in the fourth quarter is what’s happening in our Wireless business.
When we look at 2015 we think two things are going to happen in Wireless.
We think it’s going to be a much more consistent year a lot more similar to 2013 so if you look at our Q2 Q3 Q4 of last year in Wireless it was a very consistent trend from a revenue perspective.
We think we’ll get back to that in the Wireless business and we think we’ll get back to that in a bigger business.
We think it will be a bigger business that will be more consistent.
It won’t be front or back-end loaded.
It would just be a more consistent year which we think is really important for us not only from a revenue perspective but also what we think we can do with that from a margin perspective.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
A quick follow-up on wireless and maybe just a clarification for me as you look to the guidance for the second half of the year and the way you are thinking about ‘15 the margin contraction you are seeing can you maybe help us out with how much of that is your maintenance of overhead in anticipation of a recovery versus maybe the loss of maybe some of the higher-margin work you have historically done? Can you maybe help us understand that a little bit more? It has nothing to do with higher-margin work versus lower-margin work.
That’s not really what’s driving the results.
What’s driving the results is our anticipation of 2014 being a significant growth year on the wireless side our reaction to that in terms of gearing up for that potential increase.
So there is no question that when you look at 2014 versus 2013 we significantly added cost in the first half of the year to prepare ourselves for what we thought was going to be substantial growth that growth isn’t there.
We’re trying to manage those costs as best as we can.
So we have done a lot in terms of right sizing the organization.
Are we fully there? Probably not.
But at the same time we’re trying to manage that with what we think happens in 2015.
So we’re not going to right-size the business to 2014 levels because we are very confident that 2014 levels are not reflective of what our Wireless business is going to look like long term so we’re not going to make a short-term decision that affects our ability to execute in that business over the mid-to-long term.
So we’re going to take some pain in 2014 to be in a position to hopefully execute on the opportunities that are there and demonstrate that in 2015.
The sad part about all this is we’ve done that consistently year over year over year.
We’ve had phenomenal growth in that business back all the way to 2008.
We’re having a very tough year both from a comp perspective and from what we’re doing on a growth perspective in terms of adding cost but we are highly confident that come 2015 we are going to be able to demonstrate that we made the right decisions.
And just to follow up on that point obviously you are showing a lot of commitment to this business and the expected growth there recovery in spend by your primary customers.
I know in the past you talked about I guess the TCAP program and things like that.
Any commitment they are showing to you or guarantees or anything like that in terms of their plan for a spending recovery that enhances your confidence? Obviously our opinions and where we are at any given point in time is based on discussions that we’re having with all of our customers.
So again we feel very strongly that 2015 is going to be a very good year for us in Wireless both from a revenue perspective and where we think we are going to be able to do from a margin perspective.
So we are not -- I mean we’re not saying this in a bubble.
This isn’t just our opinion.
We’ve got enough data that helps us get there and we feel strongly about it.
Are we 100% certain can I guarantee it? Obviously I can’t.
We are in the position that we’re in ’14.
So we are taking everything with a grain of salt we’re managing it as close as we can but we are highly confident of what’s going to happen in 2015.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Jason Wangler of Wunderlich Securities.
I know it's a stuff that's hard to talk about but as far as that the 1-gigabit work is that just one client or is there multiple clients involved in that? And maybe also just is that one contractor or is that a lot of different areas that you'd be working? So couple of things.
When we talk about 1-gigabit I think the most important part of the discussion is the size of the opportunity globally in the market.
I think you are going to have a number of different carriers that are going to be very active in doing their 1-gigabit work.
I think it’s going to create enormous opportunities for the industry.
I think the opportunities are much greater than people quite understand.
I think we are in for an incredible cycle in that business that’s going to help the whole industry and quite frankly us and all of our peers.
Specifically about our awards we’re really not going to get into a lot of detail on that.
The only thing I’ll say is we do expect further awards as the year rolls on in 2014 so I think this is the start of something that will ultimately be a lot bigger and we’re really excited about that.
It really moves the needle in that business for us.
And then maybe for George obviously you got the first tranche of the converts done looking into December and you talked about all the cash that you guys would be generating.
Is there still a thought process of looking at that from an aspect of taking those out? I know that you've talked in the past about share repurchases and things not necessarily being something to look at but I guess it could almost be de facto in that nature.
Is that still something that's on the table as we get to December? We have all the flexibility as we mentioned before.
We can convert those typically either in all-cash all-stock or any combination thereof and certainly we are evaluating all alternatives for the second half of this year.
So we do have that flexibility and we will continue to evaluate it and proceed in what we think is the best manner for ourselves and our shareholders.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Good morning folks and good quarter given everything that's happening.
So I guess the first question is on the pipeline side Jose.
You folks have started some lending abilities or borrowing abilities or transactions on the Bessel side.
And based on our channel check it seems like some of the large Mexican pipeline stuff is now sort of headed into bidding.
So as you look at your actual prospect list for the second half of the year how would you kind of split it up in terms of what you see in U.S.
Canada and perhaps Mexico in terms of awards? What’s exciting is that all three markets are really strong and all three markets offer tremendous opportunity.
I think you will see us take advantage of those opportunities in all three markets.
Especially when you look at the next couple of years it’s going to be very active.
We are excited about it.
We’re really excited.
We think obviously the U.S.
has been our bread and butter and we think we are going to perform really well there.
We’ve made a lot of investments in Canada that we think will really pay off and we are very bullish on what’s happening in Mexico and we think we are going to be a player and we are very engaged in that process right now.
And second question is back on the gig of fiber side.
Your comments that it is potentially bigger versus what is currently being perceived to a great extent how would you sort of - how do you get comfortable around that? Is that really based on the discussions you are having across the board so not only with one or two first initial movers? Is that what it's kind of based on? Every time you pick a publication in the telecommunications sector it’s got a carrier talking about building out 1-gigabit capabilities and what you are seeing is you’re seeing multiple markets today where you have multiple carriers building in the same markets which is really going to stress those individual markets and the workload and the capacity of work -- capable of people performing in those markets.
I think that’s a very very positive trend in our industry and I think it’s going to continue.
I think it’s going to continue for a long time and those that are engaged in that business are going to benefit from it.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Adam Thalheimer of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Jose I wanted to dig in a little bit on the outlook for Wireless next year.
The outlook there is that -- some of the work that you came into 2014 thinking was going to happen with the cell site of the future and that type of program from AT&amp;T is the growth in ‘15 just if that specific work gets pushed into ‘15? Or is it that there will be other work from AT&amp;T or maybe you picked up more territories from AT&amp;T or maybe it's the Sprint ramp? We’ve said a couple of things over the course of the last year one we wanted to diversify our customer base.
We think we made good inroads in that in ’13.
Obviously we think we are doing well in that in 2014 but there’s been a lot of industry challenges relative to what’s happening in the industry and the shakeup in the industry.
I think in 2015 you are going to see more of that from us.
I think we’re going to have the opportunity to work for multiple customers because I think multiple customers are going to be extremely busy.
I think that’s going to be part of our driver.
Obviously we think we have a great relationship with AT&amp;T who is our primary customer in that business.
We are encouraged about their go-forward plans and the things that they need.
We’ve been supporting them for a long time and we are going to continue to do so.
So we’ve really never talked about one specific technology.
I don’t think the cell site of the future has ever even come out of our mouths.
So I think that’s something more about stuff that’s just written out there.
We’re excited about the opportunities with all of our customers in that business.
We are excited about where we think spend levels go.
Again all of these carriers the differentiation of their products have a lot to do with their networks which I think is going to drive a lot of investments in those networks over time.
It’s what we do.
We will play a role in that an important role in that for multiple carriers and that’s what’s going to drive our business.
And then on the $250 million award is that from an existing customer or a new customer? And what are your thoughts about margins on 1-gigabit work versus wireless work? I’ll answer the second part of it first.
Wireline margins for us have dragged our Communication margins for a long time.
If you go back into the mid-2000s our wireline margins were probably as good as any business that we had and then you have the downturn of the real estate market which really negatively impacted wireline work in general from a volume perspective which ultimately drove it from a margin perspective.
So we feel real good about that business coming back.
We think that as utilization levels improve and you get a lot of work in certain markets it’s going to give you the ability to really generate nice margins.
We’ve performed well on our Communications margin.
We would probably go into a thinking that they are going to be slightly less than our full segment margins although we obviously would hope to get there over time.
So we’re encouraged by it.
There is going to be a lot of work.
Pricing will change over the long term as more capacity gets eaten up in that business.
We’re excited about it.
We’re going to be working 1-gigabit work for multiple customers over the next couple of years and at this point we’re really not going to get into customer breakdown on that.
We’ll go next to William Bremer of Maxim Group.
Mr.
Bremer your line is open please go ahead.
And we’ll move on to Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Jose you talked about pricing challenges in the oil and gas segment.
Are you still seeing that? Has that made an improvement in that segment? And the second-half transmission segment growth is it going to come from large transmission? Are you also seeing growth in some of the other areas? And how should we think about the margins in that business in the second half? Sure.
So when we look at oil and gas our margins in the second half are getting better than they were in the first half.
Part of that is driven by a slight improvement from what we saw earlier in the year from pricing environment.
So we have seen improvements the answer is yes.
With that said it’s still a competitive market out there.
There is a lot of capacity.
Again there is a lot of work coming and I think that capacity is going to get sucked up in rather short order but until it does I think it does impact some of the shorter-term work in the meantime which I think we’ve seen and will continue to see through year-end.
On transmission we would expect continued improvement in the second half over the first half level.
I mentioned in my comments that we expect to not to be quite as high as Q2 but we would expect improvement from the first half levels in the Transmission EBITDA margins.
And yes we are seeing increase in some of the larger work.
It’s becoming a larger percentage of what we do.
It will change quarter-to-quarter.
We are still active on some of the smaller projects.
Quite frankly it’s where we’ve struggled more from a margin perspective over the last couple of years.
So we’re definitely emphasizing the larger project work where we’ve been better from an economic standpoint but we will continue to play in both markets.
And then you mentioned you could get back to the $1.2 billion run rate in communications next year.
Given the mix impact what do you think the margins could look like given the 1-gigabit opportunity is going to be lower-margin business than some of the wireless? Look I mean when you look at last year we ran just over 12.5 points in EBITDA margin.
We’re obviously talking about being couple of hundred basis points below that on a full-year basis in 2014.
So I think the opportunity will be there to definitely get back to those levels and over time especially as the 1-gigabit opportunity increases I think we could potentially see margins improving.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Veny Aleksandrov of FIG Partners.
My first question is on the wind.
You said that the pipeline is building.
Can you give us a little bit of details how these projects are shaping? Is it going to be starting late ‘14 but really impacting ’15 and ‘16? What is the regulatory framework right now? Veny I missed the first part of it which business are you talking about? Wind.
Wind.
So we’re obviously having a very good year this year.
We talked about doing $400 million of revenue in 2014 which is consistent with what we’ve been saying probably for the last year.
So we are up nicely in that business in ‘14 versus ’13.
We are very encouraged about 2015.
In our commentary we talked about already having just over $200 million of backlog for ’15.
The activity for projects both through the end of ‘14 and ‘15 is extremely active right now.
So we’re in a much better spot at this point in time relative to ‘15 than we were at this point in time relative to ‘14 last year.
But I think it’s still too early to tell.
So we’re not really ready to talk about ‘15 in a big way other than to say we expect ‘15 to be just a strong gas ’14 if not better.
And then installable home you haven't talked about this business for a while.
With everything happening in the industry what’s happening? Was this business stable? Has it been growing so far in ‘14? The new areas that you were going? Kind of a little bit more details there if you could.
Yes.
So we said it’s up 7% year-over-year.
A lot of that growth is driven by our security initiatives which is really where our growth is coming from.
So we feel good about that.
We think that’s going to continue to grow.
Obviously AT&amp;T has announced the acquisition of DIRECTV.
We expect it to close some time in the middle of 2015 and we’re working with both customers and I think that will accelerate our involvement in that over the course of the next six seven months but we feel good about it.
So the business for us is always it’s a stable business.
I think that growth is going to be driven by how aggressively they go after customers.
I think we are somewhat hopeful that DIRECTV -- that AT&amp;T will take a little bit more of an aggressive position than DIRECTV has over the last couple of years in terms of customer additions and if they do that that should bode very well for that business.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Will Gabrielski of Stephens.
The CapEx cuts are pretty material half on half.
I'm just wondering which business you are pulling back in most around CapEx; or have you just achieved the plan you thought you would get to more quickly? We’ve talked a lot about in the last year the investments that we’ve made in equipment.
We’ve also talked about our ability to manage the business at a much lower CapEx rate than we’ve been generating.
Obviously we’ve been trying to get ready for growth nothing is changed.
The oil and gas business as it comes back we are in a very good position to man that with both resources and equipment and depending on the growth profile of the business and how much we win and how fast it grows then we will temper that CapEx based on what we need.
But we feel good about what we’re spending.
We think it meets all of our needs.
We are in a good position relative to the growth opportunities ahead of us and to the extent that we can manage that we are going to manage that.
When you think about the growth you are talking about potentially in wireless next year the comps are still pretty tough first half of ‘15 versus first half of ‘14.
So is that growth going to be second-half weighted or is it too early to say? Obviously our second half comps next year are going to be a lot better than our first half comps.
So you’re going to see more growth in the second half than you will in the first but we would expect with what we know today the first half to be not dramatically different than what the first half of 2014 was.
And then just lastly in terms of pricing on the oil and gas side during your update mid-quarter you talked about it basin-specific maybe some more pricing weakness in some specific basins has it spread outside of where you were seeing it? We’ve seen competition everywhere so the different basins which is where a lot of the shale work is today which is where a lot of people are trying to working as some of the long-haul work comes to fruition I think it’s broad-based.
I think obviously some shales are more effective than others.
We think across the board competition has been high across the shales and more so than it had been in previous years.
So really no change in what we were seeing.
Earlier this year with the exception that we’ve probably seen a little bit of uptick in pricing in pricing.
But is it new entrants? Or is it lack of demand? It’s a combination of everybody.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Jose I just wanted to follow up on the oil and gas side.
Your optimism relative to the project opportunities coming for you in 2015 first of all when do you have to start to book that work to fill up your schedule for ’15 and is that something we will see this year? We’ve said all along probably since last year that we expected awards for ‘15 to start in late 2014.
I don’t know that our views have dramatically changed on that.
Could it slip into the beginning of ’15? It could.
But our view hasn’t really changed in the last 12 months.
There is a lot of dialogue going on.
There is a lot of projects that are on the board that are being discussed and we think there is going to be a lot of activity.
So really our view hasn’t really changed on that.
And is it your hope expectation that this is the long-haul pipe that we will see that presumably is a little less competitive or fewer qualified contractors? Again we’re going to see a massive increase in that portion of the business.
I do think there is less players there obviously and I think as they fill up it affects everything because as the bigger contractors get fuller than their participation in the shale and their interest in the shale somewhat weans which improves all the shale business too.
So it really affects the whole business the whole market and we’ve talked about that for a long time.
We’ve talked about what we think the pricing pressure is across the entire industry.
It starts with long-haul being active and as long long-haul gets active I think it’s good for the whole industry and I think we’re on the cusp of that happening.
At this point we are over time and our final question comes from William Bremer of Maxim Group.
Could we just go into a little more granularity on the backlog per segment? Maybe give us a little insight of the makeup a little bit there if you don't mind in some of the pricing components.
Your backlog in some of the segments have grown very very nicely and just want to get a little color in terms of the overall pricing and the makeup there.
The biggest change in backlog was not in our communications sector the anticipated reduction in wireless revenues for the balance of 2014.
That’s really what drove our reduction in communications backlog.
The way we calculate backlog and MSAs is we take the current run rate and kind of annualize it for 18 months which is what we’ve done.
We don’t think it’s a true reflection on what the backlog of that business is but that’s how we calculate it so that’s how we calculated it for this quarter which led to the decline.
In oil and gas as previously mentioned we obviously had the addition of Pacer’s backlog in that business.
Outside of Pacer it was down slightly as expected because as we work off big projects until we win the next big project we want see a sizable increase there.
We think that’s coming.
Outside of that I think backlog was pretty much in line with where it’s historically been and we wouldn’t expect many changes to that as we go forward.
And then just a quick follow-up on long-haul can you give us a sense of what you are seeing in terms of the bidding opportunities not just domestically but Mexico as well as Canada? And would you need to perform some type of acquisition to execute in the Mexican region? We don’t think so.
So we’ve talked a little bit about Canada the investments that we’ve made.
We’re again very bullish on that market.
We think the U.S.
market is going to be very active for a long time and we’re very encouraged about what’s happening in Mexico.
There is a number of big projects that are in play currently and we think we’ve got a real good opportunity to win some and be active down there.
We think we can do that.
We’ve worked real hard down there.
We have had a presence down there now for a good period of time and we think we’re in a really good position to execute.
So we expect all three markets to be very good for us.
Obviously the bread-and-butter markets for us are the U.S.
and Canada because we’ve got so much investment there but we are incredibly encouraged about what’s happening in Mexico and our ability to perform there.
Thank you.
With no further questions I’d like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jose Mas for any additional or closing remarks.
So again I just want to thank everybody’s participation.
I know we did this call a little bit later than usual.
We look forward to getting back on to our normal schedule starting next quarter and look forward to updating everybody.
So thank you.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on October 31 2014.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thank you Christy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec’s future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company's expectations on the day of initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings press release.
Our 10-Q our 10-K are in the Investors and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have Jose Mas our CEO; and George Pita our Executive Vice President and CFO.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and announcements by Jose followed by a financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a short Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last for about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of important things to talk about today so I'll go ahead and turn the call over to Jose.
Jose? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2014 third quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our third quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
First some third quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.31 billion a 3% increase over the prior year's third quarter.
EBITDA was $132 million and earnings per share were $0.56.
While we had a good quarter in line with our previous guidance our current focus is on getting through 2014 in the most efficient and profitable manner possible while preparing for 2015 and beyond where we expect significant increases in the number and size of opportunities.
As many of you know 2014 has been a challenging year for MasTec primarily in 2 areas.
First our wireless business experienced a number of deferrals and delayed expenditures which are negatively impacting our growth in the second half of the year.
And in our Oil and Gas business we saw both pricing pressure early in the year and delays in the startup of anticipated long-haul projects in late 2014.
Despite these issues we have been able to continue to grow the business and prepare for what we believe will be a significant ramp in the years to come.
Before covering our industry specifics I'd like to highlight some near-term opportunities.
With our recent acquisition of WesTower we are incredibly well-positioned to continue to benefit from the investment in our nation's wireless networks.
With increased geographic scope and services we are uniquely positioned in this market.
As it relates to 1-gigabit projects we are now more confident that this opportunity will translate into significant growth opportunities for MasTec.
We expect our wireline business to experience strong growth in 2015 related to 1 gigabit.
But the reality is the opportunities beyond 2015 are far greater.
As it relates to Oil and Gas the amount of work that is being discussed bid or negotiating is at staggering levels.
While projects are being slightly delayed for environmental and permitting issues we expect there will be a multiyear cycle that will challenge the construction industry's ability to meet this demand.
I mention these opportunities to provide insight on how we see the business.
Quite frankly we are disappointed with our results thus far this year.
We expected higher levels of growth.
However if we execute the opportunities in front of us are at unprecedented levels.
For this reason and the fact that we recently closed on the WesTower acquisition we decided to give a very early estimate of 2015 guidance.
George will cover the numbers later.
But this initial estimate assumes Oil and Gas long-haul project activity doesn't materially improve until late in 2015 and it assumes only the startup of 1-gigabit activity.
Yet even at these ranges we believe that based on historical multiples our current stock price provides investors a significant opportunity for appreciation.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communications revenue for the quarter was $505 million versus $543 million last year.
The drop was primarily driven by a reduction in wireless revenues.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was up about 3% year-over-year.
This growth was driven by security-related revenues and we expect continued growth in 2015.
Wireline revenues for the quarter were down year-over-year however future prospects for that business are as good as we've seen in a long time.
Included in our backlog at quarter-end is approximately $250 million related to 1-gigabit work.
Revenue for this work will be minimal in 2014 but will grow nicely in 2015 and 2016.
We expect further awards and believe this to be one of MasTec's largest opportunities over the next couple of years.
As expected our wireless revenue is down year-over-year.
For the second half of 2014 a number of our wireless projects were deferred.
With our ramp in resources to meet the expected growth earlier this year these deferrals negatively impacted not only our growth but also our margin profile as utilization levels were below what we expected.
While we have adjusted our workforce and continue to closely manage our workforce levels compared to our expected revenue levels the reality is that these changes will continue to negatively affect our financial performance through year end.
We are however very optimistic that the need for our services and the future workload levels that the industry requires are significant.
Subsequent to quarter-end we announced the acquisition of WesTower.
Integration of WesTower has begun and we believe the combined entity will offer us strong opportunities for growth.
Revenue in our Electrical Transmission business was $133 million versus $119 million in last year's third quarter a 12% year-over-year increase.
This was our highest level of quarterly revenues since we started the Transmission business.
We continue to see a very strong bidding environment and we are confident in our ability to continue to deliver strong results in this segment.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment.
Revenue was $114 million for the third quarter versus $85 million in the prior year and EBITDA for this segment improved by over $11 million year-over-year.
We are on track for a much improved 2014.
In addition we expect 2015 to be a very good year.
For 2015 we currently have $290 million worth of projects that are either in our backlog or have been verbally awarded.
Bidding activity remains very active and we are encouraged about our visibility this far in advance.
Our Oil and Gas pipeline segment had revenues of $557 million for the third quarter compared to revenues of $519 million in last year's third quarter.
EBITDA margin for the segment was 13.1% flat with last year but up from 9.8% sequentially.
As I commented earlier we saw pressure in margins during the first half of the year.
We are now seeing an improved pricing environment.
We expect fourth quarter EBITDA margins to be similar to last year's levels.
We are very excited and bullish about the long-term prospects in our Oil and Gas business.
We expect a dramatic increase in activity levels.
While there is some uncertainty as to the actual start dates due to the delays in environmental and permitting activities the market is extremely active in North America and we are in dialogue on a number of opportunities and projects that will be built over the next 3 to 5 years.
Also subsequent to quarter-end and not included in our backlog was about $300 million of pipeline awards at our Precision pipeline subsidiary that will be mostly completed in the first half of 2015.
To recap.
Despite the challenges we face in 2014 I feel strongly that we have positioned the company in the right markets at the right time.
I am convinced that 2014 is not reflective of our earnings potential.
I'm looking forward to getting this year behind us and executing on the opportunities ahead of us.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO George Pita for our financial review.
George? Thank you Jose and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover third quarter financial results fourth quarter and full year 2014 guidance along with our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
Through the impact of the recent WesTower acquisition I will also cover a preliminary look at our 2015 financial performance expectations.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we're discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
Full reconciliations from GAAP results to adjusted results are included in our Form 10-Q and press release tables.
As indicated in our release continuing operations adjusted results for fourth quarter 2014 and fiscal 2015 will now also exclude the impact of acquisition integration expense anticipated to be incurred in connection with the WesTower acquisition.
We estimate that these costs will approximate $20 million and be primarily composed of lease and equipment exit costs employee separation and onetime training efforts to implement our systems and processes.
We are currently estimating that we will incur approximately $10 million of these costs in the fourth quarter of 2014 with the balance to be incurred during 2015.
Obviously given the recent timing of the acquisition estimates of total cost and timing are preliminary as we are still finalizing our integration plan.
Before I get into detailed remarks here are some highlights for the quarter.
Third quarter results were in line with our guidance and our EBITDA margin increased sequentially by 50 basis points to a 2014 high of 10.1% despite the profit pressure created by decreased levels of wireless revenue as well as costs incurred during the quarter in rightsizing our wireless operations.
Oil and Gas segment EBITDA margins during the quarter improved sequentially by 330 basis points to a 2014 high of 13.1%.
And we successfully completed construction of a major long-haul project during the quarter.
Our Power Generation segment continued a strong turnaround in 2014 versus last year as EBITDA margin in this segment increased dramatically from a negative 7.5% to a positive 4.3% representing an $11.3 million positive swing.
While our cash flow from operations during the quarter was lower than last year this was primarily due to the timing of project completions including final closeout and repaintage [ph] billings.
We reduced our DSOs when compared to the second quarter level by 4 days.
We continue to expect strong cash flow from operations during our fourth quarter and expect that cash flow from operations for the full year 2014 will exceed 2013 levels.
Now let me cover some details regarding third quarter revenue performance.
Third quarter 2014 revenue was $1.3 billion up 3.2% from last year.
Highlights include a $38 million increase over last year in our Oil and Gas segment a $29 million increase in our Power Generation segment and a $14 million increase in our Electrical Transmission segment.
These revenue increases were partially offset by a $38 million decrease in our Communications segment which was primarily due to previously announced expected lower levels of wireless project activity.
Now I will discuss a summary of our top 10 largest customers for the third quarter 2014 as a percentage of revenue.
AT&amp;T was 16%; DIRECTV was 12%; Enbridge was 10%; Berkshire Hathaway Energy was 8%; Canadian Natural Resources was 4%; and we had 4 customers at 2%: CenturyLink Plains All American Pipeline Chesapeake Midstream Partners and Duke Energy.
Individual construction projects comprise 57% of our third quarter revenue with master service agreements comprising 43% and this mix is generally in line with recent trends.
As far as major customer trends are concerned while AT&amp;T total customer revenue was essentially flat during the third quarter when compared to last year it's important to note that AT&amp;T total customer revenue is comprised of 3 separate service contracts with 3 different operational groups wireless wireline and home security installation services.
During the third quarter we had strong growth in wireline and home security installation services which were mostly offset by expected decreases in wireless construction services.
As we have previously indicated we expect wireless project activity will slow further in our fourth quarter before normalizing and we expect growth in 2015 from a combination of industry growth market share gains and contribution from the recent WesTower acquisition.
At quarter end our 18-month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.1 billion compared to approximately $3.9 billion as of both the second quarter of 2014 and the third quarter of last year.
This represents a 5% increase in sequential backlog.
Backlog growth was led by the Communications segment which grew by $230 million primarily due to the addition of a large 1-gigabit fiber deployment contract.
As Jose mentioned we have had some good increases in Oil and Gas backlog subsequent to quarter end and this will be reflected next quarter.
Also for the sake of clarity given the recent timing of the acquisition our third quarter reported backlog levels do not include any amounts for WesTower which will be reflected next quarter.
Regarding third quarter 2014 EBITDA performance.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $132 million compared with $135 million last year.
On a rate basis third quarter 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 10.1% compared to 9.6% in the second quarter of 2014 and 10.6% last year.
As I mentioned earlier our consolidated EBITDA margin improved 50 basis points sequentially over second quarter levels despite the impact of decreased wireless project activity to a 2014 high of 10.1%.
Looking at our performance at a segment level.
As indicated in my summary comments we reported strong Oil and Gas EBITDA margins of 13.1% a 330 basis-point sequential improvement and also a 2014 high mark and Power Generation continued a strong year-over-year turnaround.
Communications segment EBITDA margin for the third quarter was 10.4% which was in line with our expectations and reflects expected reduced levels of wireless project activity.
Third quarter 2014 Communications segment EBITDA also includes approximately $3 million in costs incurred during the quarter as we rationalized our wireless operation cost structure.
As we have previously indicated during the first half of 2014 we had been significantly investing and expanding our wireless organizational structure in order to keep up with wireless project growth and new programs.
Given the lower level of wireless project services to be rendered during the second half of 2014 we have taken actions to normalize our cost structure while still planning for growth in 2015.
In our Electrical Transmission segment we reported a 9.6% EBITDA margin during the third quarter of 2014 a slight decline when compared to last year's 10.2%.
The majority of this margin rate decline was caused by costs incurred during the quarter to start up Canadian operations as we established a business office in Calgary with the expectation of generating return on this investment in 2015.
Regarding other areas of the income statement below the EBITDA line.
Third quarter 2014 depreciation and amortization expense was in line with our expectation at 3.2% of revenue compared to 3.0% last year.
And this level includes increased expense levels from the Pacer acquisition in the second quarter.
Third quarter 2014 GAAP general and administrative expenses including noncash stock compensation were flat on a rate basis when compared to last year at 4.6% of revenue.
Interest expense during the third quarter of 2014 was $12.6 million compared to $12.7 million last year.
Even though we have higher borrowings compared to a year ago due to the Pacer acquisition interest expense levels were flat as we have reduced our effective borrowing costs with the second quarter retirement of $115 million convertible notes.
Now let me talk about cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
We generated $81 million in cash flow from operations for the 9-month period ended September 2014 compared to $129 million for the same period last year.
Due to the seasonality of our business and timing of project closeouts in 2014 we expect to generate significant cash flow from operations during the fourth quarter and expect that full year 2014 results should exceed 2013 full year cash flow operations levels of approximately $200 million.
Our third quarter 2014 accounts receivable day sales outstanding or DSOs were 88 days compared to 92 days for the second quarter of 2014 a 4-day decrease.
As we indicated during the WesTower acquisition conference call acquired WesTower operations have DSO levels that are approximately 40% higher than MasTec levels.
Thus we expect that if these amounts are consolidated into MasTec results our year-end DSO levels will increase from current levels.
We have initiated actions during the fourth quarter designed to improve acquired WesTower working capital levels but it will clearly take some time to get acquired DSOs in line with MasTec levels.
Regarding our spending on capital equipment.
Third quarter 2014 cash CapEx net of disposals was approximately $20 million.
We added approximately $12 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $32 million.
Year-to-date we've incurred $79 million of cash CapEx net of disposals and added $62 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $141 million.
We currently estimate a moderated capital spend in the fourth quarter and now estimate that we will spend approximately $80 million to $85 million in cash CapEx in 2014 net of disposals with an additional $80 million to $85 million in financed CapEx for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $160 million to $170 million.
Liquidity at September 30 calculated as cash plus availability on our senior revolving credit facility was $270 million.
Liquidity as of September 30 includes a temporary reduction of approximately $150 million as our revolving credit facility requires that we reserve liquidity as we approach the December settlement of our $100 million convertible notes.
Our overall net debt level as of September 30 was approximately $1.2 billion reflecting the June acquisition of Pacer.
As we indicated in yesterday's 10-Q we exercised a portion of our $250 million accordion feature with our bank group and added a $75 million term loan in October as part of the WesTower acquisition.
We're continuing to evaluate our debt structure to ensure we have ample liquidity to allow us the financial flexibility to pursue attractive growth opportunities.
As we look forward to 2015 we expect our leverage ratios to significantly decline compared to 2014 year-end levels and expected increased levels of operating profit should generate strong cash flow from operations.
Moving on to our 2014 full year guidance which now includes WesTower operations.
We are projecting annual revenue of approximately $4.6 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of approximately $425 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.55.
This guidance reflects the assumption that WesTower fourth quarter results will be impacted by reduced levels of wireless project activity and thus is expected to be slightly dilutive to continuing operations adjusted earnings per share.
If you do the math our guidance for the fourth quarter translates to continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 9.1% compared to 10.1% for the third quarter of 2014 and 10.6% for the fourth quarter of last year.
Excluding the impact of acquired WesTower operations we would've expected fourth quarter EBITDA margins to approximate third quarter 2014 levels.
Our estimate for full year share count per diluted earnings per share is about 86.3 million shares and 85.8 million shares for the fourth quarter.
Remember that our share count for earnings per share purposes can fluctuate up and down with our stock price because of the accounting for a remaining $100 million convertible notes which will be settled in December.
We plan to repay the principal amount of these notes in cash and we'll issue shares for the premium value of the conversion feature of these notes.
Lastly due to the significance of the impact of the WesTower acquisition we have issued preliminary 2015 guidance ranges earlier than usual.
We will update this guidance at our typical timing when we report our year-end results and have more visibility.
For 2015 we expect that revenue will grow 13% to 17% over expected 2014 levels to $5.2 billion to $5.4 billion and that continuing operations adjusted EBITDA should approximate 10% of revenue or $520 million to $540 million.
We also expect continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share in the range of $2 to $2.15 per share.
In summary we are excited about our prospects in 2015 and beyond and look forward to capitalizing on the numerous growth opportunities in the markets we serve.
That includes our remarks and now I'll turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So there's been -- as you know there's been so much noise on wireless spend.
Even since your last earnings call.
Can you talk about whether the expected wireless spend in 2H '14 has trended to your revised expectations from the summer? And then you've mentioned in the past that you saw wireless spend to rise to $1.2 billion next year versus about $900 million this year.
Can you talk about what's implied in your early guidance here in wireless? And with your largest customer spend down in 2H '14 what gives you the conviction that you'll see growth in wireless x acquisitions in '15? A couple of things.
First from our expectations of what the second half of '14 would look like based to what they’re playing out to it's almost exactly as we expected so there's really been no changes.
I think we had a good understanding as more information came out in the second quarter.
We adjusted our estimates for the balance of the year and again the estimates are playing out -- or the actuals are playing out almost exactly to the estimates.
When we look at what we've embedded in guidance we've probably taken a slightly moderated view on that so we're probably going to do about $950 million this year in the business pre-WesTower.
We've said WesTower we expect it to be about $400 million next year and I'd say embedded in our guidance right now is about $1.5 billion maybe slightly higher than that for full year 2015.
And we feel real comfortable with that.
One it's driven by our existing customer obviously AT&amp;T which is our biggest customer but we're also seeing a lot of opportunities outside of them for further growth with other customers.
So again we're very encouraged about the market.
We think that capacity and data there's still massive issues that are being dealt with and it's going to create an enormous amount of opportunities for us not just in the short term but in the long term.
We've said it a couple of times we think the combination of the businesses makes it a very unique play.
We really don't think there's anybody like us in the country.
And as some of the larger carriers are trying to determine what they do we think we're going to bode really well in that discussion.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Jose.
So stepping back though.
I mean this is the first time you've given guidance at this point since I can remember.
And I know you said it's because of WesTower.
But how do we think about the -- your conviction in the guidance given it’s this early.
Is it more conservative given it's so early? And -- or does it help you that Oil and Gas looks like it's starting to pick up here? You've got backlog up quarter-over-quarter and you got these new awards here that will hit in 4Q.
So is that also giving you confidence to come out with guidance this early? Look we're trying to do the best job we can in terms of identifying the future opportunities in the company and the direction where we think we're heading.
The challenge for us is as an entity and even as individuals is 2014 was a very frustrating year in that we see what's coming.
We think we have very clear visibility amongst a number of our different businesses of what's coming and we can't wait for it to get here because it's really exciting.
We can't talk about it all because a lot of it isn't done yet.
But we see what's coming on the horizon and I think in a small way we're trying to really show what our numbers are what we think we can absolutely hit for 2015.
And even at those levels we think we're pretty undervalued.
So to the extent that we can execute and take advantage of the opportunities that are ahead of us we feel really good about where we are as a business.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question is really on EBITDA margins for next year.
[indiscernible] if we were to strip out -- and I think George gave a nice example of the fourth quarter and what things look like outside of WesTower.
Could you talk a bit about what's in your initially embedded guidance x WesTower for 2015 margins? Well if you kind of break them out Power Gen should continue to perform.
We actually expect it to perform a little bit better in '15 than it's performed in '14.
We're probably just slightly under where we would've expected or wanted to have been.
Electrical Transmission should do well.
Again we're investing.
We talked a little bit about our investments in the Canadian space which are probably going to continue to be a drag at least through the first part of '15 slightly from a margin perspective.
When we look at our Oil and Gas business and we look at our performance in the second half of this year I think until there's some large awards and some things change in that business I think that should be the expected levels of margins going forward into '15.
And when you look at our Communications business our margins are actually getting better here even in the fourth quarter.
When you do take WesTower into account it does drag the margins down because it's more of a turnaround story and we're expecting lower margins going into 2015.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay Jose.
And I guess second question is more for George.
If you're looking at -- George you said you expect strong free cash flow for next year.
And I guess you've opened up the Pandora's Box in terms of what that actually means.
Are we -- in your perspective as we look at the business when do we start sort of seeing free cash flow kind of approximate your net income levels as you look out over the next few years? Well look we said that we expect full year '14 cash flow from operations to exceed 2013 levels which means we expect to have a strong fourth quarter in terms of cash flow.
Obviously the quarterly numbers in terms of cash flow are dependent on timing of project closeouts and individual billings and whatnot so they can jump around a little bit.
But we definitely expect an increase this year and we would expect to continue to increase going forward into next year.
As far as the capital spend you saw we moderated our capital spend somewhat in the second half of this year.
We're not giving direct guidance in terms of what our capital spend for '15 would be but I would think it would be similar to the overall '14 levels maybe a little bit of an increase but not that much.
And the reality is that we definitely expect to generate improved working capital management on the WesTower side.
We've indicated that and we expect to get some improvements there.
So we think that'll also give us some improved cash flow going forward.
We'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jose the market's somewhat skittish on gas prices.
I'm trying to connect the dots with regards to possible slowdown of capital investment in pipe.
Can you kind of comment on just that broader view? Are you seeing any of your customers pushed to the right pipeline projects because of this recent weakness in gas prices? And then secondly can you go into a little bit more detail about pipeline opportunities breaking apart Canada the U.S.
and Mexico and talking about each one respectively? Sure.
So we can say unequivocally that our customers are still very active on the projects that they've been discussing for a long time.
We know that on a number of those projects pipe's been ordered there's been significant dollars already spent and committed to projects so we think the viability of those projects going forward is extremely high.
I can't say that there won't be any projects that would -- that aren't going to get canceled because of what happens to oil prices at any level.
We don't know right? There could be projects out there that ultimately don't happen.
But what we can say is there's so many projects that we know that are happening that it's almost irrelevant because -- and we've said it a couple of times the amount of projects that are being planned are almost -- are going to be very difficult to find ways to all get executed based on the capacity and the demand issues.
It's -- there is a staggering number of projects on the table that are going to be built over the next few years.
So we feel really good about it.
We do break the market up between the U.S.
Canada and Mexico.
The U.S.
market again we have great visibility.
We think it's going to be a fantastic market an enormous amount of growth.
But it's slow coming right? We're going to struggle in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
It's embedded in our guidance.
We're going to see an organic slowdown in our business year.
We finished some long-haul projects here in the third quarter and a lot of the work that we've won some of the announcements that we made about Precision those are projects that don't really start until the beginning of 2015.
Even in '15 we think it's going to be much more active as the year progresses.
So the U.S.
market's in great shape.
It's coming and when it gets here it's going to be a long cycle that's going to keep us all busy.
Canada is also an active market both from a midstream and a long-haul perspective.
We've done fairly well there over the last couple of months.
We actually expect -- embedded in our guidance is probably more growth in Canada right now than there is in the U.S.
and that's all based on timing.
And probably embedded in our guidance is very little or any work in Mexico which we think there's a number of opportunities that we're currently chasing that are very sizable that if we're lucky enough to win any of them would have a probably -- could be a dramatic effect to our guidance for '15 and '16.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Could you also update us on the Pacer acquisition and sort of the progress over the last quarter that you've seen with it? They're doing great.
They're picking up work nicely from a backlog perspective relative to their burn.
They're seeing a lot of opportunities so it's actually -- it's right on the line.
We'll go next to William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Staying with pipeline right now.
You sort of mentioned that -- and congratulations to the Precision team landing $300 million in long-haul.
Very nice.
You sort of mentioned today we're starting in 2015 here.
What are some of the completion dates if you don't mind? That's the first question.
And then secondly you went into a little bit of Mexico.
Can you sort of give us a little background in terms of how quickly projects float there? Is it a little different than here? And what can we expect on that front? So from the pipeline awards that we announced subsequent to quarter end those are all projects that will be completed in 2015 that will start in '15 and complete in '15.
As it relates to Mexico it is different.
Mexico obviously has undergone significant energy reform.
There are a number of projects that are currently out bidding.
Some have -- they started some work earlier this year.
There's a lot of engineering.
And some of these projects are full-term keys so you're going to end up doing everything from engineering to procurement to actual construction.
So different firms are active at different points of time.
But it's probably a little bit longer of a sales cycle I think by the time -- and every project's different.
There are some projects that are ready for construction but most of them are probably a little bit earlier from a planning perspective so they're going to be awarded.
And once they're awarded it'll probably take a little bit of time for revenues to really impact in any significant way.
Research Division</strong> And then my final question is on the margins for pipeline.
We're starting to see better pricing a quicker book-and-burn on the long-haul that you just mentioned.
Is it safe to assume that EBITDA margins will be up year-over-year from '15 to '14? Look I think we're feeling better about it.
We definitely think pricing is improving.
The challenge in the business and what's really going to drive margins to what we've been able to historically see on a high end is utilization right? So the fact that for example if we look at 2014 we're seeing a slowdown in the fourth quarter right? That slowdown isn't just a revenue issue.
It obviously affects our margins.
It affects our utilization.
So to the extent that we can keep people busy consistently it really improves margins.
If we can consistently keep everybody busy in 2015 margins are going to be a lot better than '14.
We think there's going to be a little bit of volatility there.
So we're encouraged by where margins are going in 2015 but I don't know that -- our guidance -- our current guidance does not anticipate a significant increase in the margins in '15 versus '14.
We'll go next to Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just curious.
I know that there's not a lot of color probably to be given on the 1-gig work that you already have a backlog.
But if it can be maybe even be a little bit still not too colorful is that 1 big project? Is it in 1 region? Or is it -- and is it with 1 customer? Or is there a lot of different work? I know you obviously announced kind of the contract last time but maybe just as nonspecific but specific as you can be just to kind of get a feel for what that is.
We're working currently for multiple customers.
The large award that we mentioned is more in line for -- with 1 customer.
But there are opportunities with multiple customers right now that we're very encouraged by.
And again we think it's a huge opportunity with the -- it's an opportunity that's going to accelerate over time and I think it's going to completely transform our wireline business over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And George maybe just for you on the financial side.
Obviously you've kind of walked through with now the acquisition and what you have.
Could you maybe just lay out the options you're looking at as far as what you want to do with the balance sheet in terms of whether it's terming out debt or just kind of the things you're thinking about there just to give us color on that.
Well we announced obviously yesterday in the Q that we did a $75 million term loan with our bank group.
We're certainly evaluating different levels of term loan borrowings that might increase that $75 million a little bit further to ensure we have the right kind of liquidity going forward for future growth and take advantage of all the opportunities that we see.
As we think about our debt structure going forward that's probably the most likely scenario.
We obviously look at interest rates and environments.
We're always evaluating that to determine whether or not you change your mix of fixed versus floating and that sort of thing but there's nothing I would comment on directly today.
That's something that we're always evaluating and we continue to look at.
We'll go next to Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So first some of the questions have touched on this a bit but it looks like there's sort of a disconnect between what looks to be very good Oil and Gas backlog growth and this additional $300 million job you booked post the end of the quarter which is sizable.
So can you just explain a little bit more what you mean in terms of when you say you aren't anticipating a significant increase in mainline work until the end of the year in your '15 guidance? Because it seems like some of these projects that you've booked would I think support a stronger first half than maybe what we're thinking heading into the quarter.
So a couple of things.
One the $300 million is more than 1 project.
Two we obviously feel great about where we are given this point in time.
So the fact that we're going into the year with that kind of backlog and awards and the recent activity that we're seeing makes us feel a lot better about '15 than maybe where we were sitting 6 months ago or a year ago.
It always feels good to go into a year with good backlog where you know that your business is going to be supported.
So we feel really good about that.
The flip side of that is we had a very very good 2013 relative to pipeline construction and we had a lot of work that flowed into the beginning of '14.
So we went into '14 with a lot of backlog as well.
So a lot of this backlog quite frankly is replacing some of the work that we have previously done in previous years.
So I wouldn't say it's additive at this point.
Again if -- the good thing is activity levels continue to be really high so to the extent that we can continue to win things it could change our outlook and make us feel even more positive than what we feel today.
It's a step in the right direction.
But we have a big pipeline business so the reality is we need to win a lot of work every year to continue that business at current levels.
We expect to do it.
We absolutely expect that business to grow over time.
The opportunities are there for that business to get substantially bigger than what it is today.
But I still think that we're a little bit out.
We're -- we've said it a couple of times on the call today permitting and environmental issues are delaying projects.
And when this cycle starts it's going to start in a big way and it's going to last for a long time.
But we don't think it’s there yet.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is really I thought it was interesting that you noted that you set up a transmission operation in Canada.
Can you talk a little bit about your strategy there? Are you looking to pursue larger projects or more small-to-medium projects? And then along the same vein you talked in the past about trying to move into the Canadian mainland market.
Is that now something you're thinking you maybe could do organically? So we talked a little bit about it when we acquired Pacer.
We thought that Pacer had certain aspects of the business that would make it easier for us to penetrate the transmission market in a faster and better way.
Over the last quarter or so maybe a little bit longer we went and we opened an office specifically a transmission office to service the Canadian market.
That office is growing for us.
We've got over a dozen people in that office today engineers project managers.
We're having a lot of dialogue around projects going after a number of projects.
So we feel really good about our ability to grow that business organically over time obviously using some of the Pacer assets to help us as well.
So we're encouraged about what we're seeing.
It's a very active market.
It's a market where we think there's opportunities for new entrants.
So it fits us well and it's kind of similar to how we feel we started in the U.S.
market and the things we did to penetrate the U.S.
market a number of years back.
So we feel good about it.
From a main line pipe perspective we've said all along we do believe we can do some of that organically.
We're seeing some grabbing a little bit of success there.
We're currently working on a larger project than we've typically historically worked on.
We've got some other ones that we're currently going after.
So we're encouraged.
There's some activity there.
We haven't talked a lot about it and we're probably not going to give much more detail but there are some good opportunities for us in that market as well.
We'll go next to Dan Mannes with Avondale Brokerage.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups.
First on the third quarter as it relates to the Oil and Gas business margins held in pretty well year-over-year in spite of -- you had mentioned some previous issues on maybe a little bit of margin contraction plus what looks like a mix of less long-haul work in the third quarter.
Can you maybe give us a little bit more color on were there any benefits as you completed the big job? Or maybe did you get any over the margins on Pacer better? Maybe just help us out a little bit on the margins in Oil and Gas for the quarter.
Look our -- it was broad-based.
We didn't have any significant onetime pickups or anything like that that drove margins.
So it wasn't single job-based.
Our Canadian operations as a whole not just Pacer but including big country are performing well.
They had good quarters.
Our U.S.
operations did well.
We were completing a large long-haul project that kept driving revenues through -- from a long-haul perspective through Q3.
Our shale plays our midstream plays did much better than they had done in the previous quarters of the year.
So we had a solid quarter.
Going into the fourth quarter we expect some of the same.
We are going to see a slowdown in long-haul work as we transition from the project we finished to other projects that will have a slight impact to margins.
But quite frankly we're expecting margins in the fourth quarter of this year to be similar to what they were in the fourth quarter of last year which is a pretty active quarter for us.
So we're upbeat.
We'd like to see higher revenues.
We have the capacity to do a lot more work.
And had we had to work on the fourth quarter to do that you would've seen a sizable in my mind uptick in margins on a year-over-year basis.
And hopefully as 2015 plays out and we can pick up work to keep busy we'll begin to see that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
And then on the Transmission business this kind of -- it kind of gets overshadowed by some of the larger businesses you're in but you've grown this pretty nicely over time.
Backlog's been trending down a little bit as you're starting to work on some of the big projects you previously won.
Can you talk about maybe some of the U.S.
bidding opportunities you see going to next year after what's been a little bit of a kind of a slow stretch in terms of large project awards? We feel the same way.
With that said there are a number of projects that are out there that we think are going to be awarded definitely within the next 12 months.
We feel good about our ability to get some of those.
And our idea in the business isn't to maintain the levels that we're at.
We think we can based on the workload that's out there we can continue to grow that business.
So our expectation going into 2015 is that we'll continue to see growth in that business hopefully double-digit growth.
So we're excited about the prospects in that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if you'll indulge me just last -- one last quick one on Electric.
The margins at 10% how much was that negatively impacted by the Canadian operation? Because I guess we had thought this was going to be trending up a bit more over time.
Yes Dan the majority of the difference between this year's rate and last year's rate was due to the investments.
So we would've run slightly over last year's levels in the third quarter had it not been for the startup of the Canadian operations.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But I mean you targeted certainly margins better than that historically? We have.
And what we said all along is we continue to grow a larger part of that work.
So the bigger jobs the more complex jobs we do a lot better on those from a margin perspective than we do on some of the smaller work.
And I think as you see us going forward you're going to see more of the business convert to that.
But we're still doing a lot of smaller-type projects that are negatively affecting margins.
We'll go next to Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> One question on Communications and one on pipes.
On Communications Jose can you give some nice color on wireless revenue assumptions in your guidance? Can you talk about what you're expecting on wireline? And then also as it relates to the 1 gigabit opportunity do you envision doing work for cable companies as well? So I'll answer the last part of it first.
We'll work for anybody is the right answer.
There is a lot of work out there and we're going to chase any customer that has a significant spend.
We're currently not doing anything for cable companies so I don’t want to overstate it but the opportunity is there.
And if it's there and we can provide a service we're going to try.
Again we're very bullish on it.
There's a lot of players in that market that we think are going to be active.
And again we think we're in a really really good position.
As it relates to growth we're expecting significant growth in that business going into next year in the very very -- in the very high double-digits.
I'm not going to say we expect to double the business but it's a very strong growth going into '15 versus '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on pipe how much of the business today would you say is gathering systems versus long-haul? As we go into '15 is there -- because of low oil prices is there a decline in the gathering work that gets offset by the long-haul uptick? Well we kind of view the business in 3 sections right? It's gathering midstream and long-haul.
And from a gathering perspective it's a very small piece of what we do.
It's probably -- it's less than 10% slightly over 5%.
So somewhere between 5% and 10% on an annual basis.
The things that we're doing there we don't think they're going to be greatly impacted.
So we feel good about that portion of the business.
Again it's not very big and we think the rest of the business is pretty well insulated to it as well.
So we're not seeing any slowdown.
There's so much activity out there.
There's so many projects on the board that quite frankly we're trying to stay ahead of all of it which has been a challenge.
We'll go next to Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I think you guys have talked about improving margins in the Power Gen business in the back half of the year.
Can you just talk about whether you're going to see the same kind of margin profile in Power Gen in the fourth quarter so that you can get to the 2012 levels? Or is it going to be much more gradual in 2015? Look we're slightly underperforming where we would've hoped to have been in that business relative to what we said earlier in the year.
So we expect to be slightly under that 5% goal that we've kind of set for ourselves.
With that said some of the challenges we face in that business we've had some jobs that have been very negatively affected by weather.
Not to make excuses it's just -- it is what it is.
When we look at where we're sitting in this business relative to 2015 again we're really excited because we generally don't have the kind of visibility that we have today.
So we've got a large portion of our '14 annual revenue's booked for 2015.
So we definitely expect the business to have as good or better of a year as it did in 2014.
And we're hoping that at a minimum it does what we expected the margins to be in '14.
So we do expect margin appreciation in this business from '14 to '15.
And hopefully it's -- and we're going to try to generate -- we're going to try to maximize the profit share to the highest level we can get them.
Research Division</strong> What kind of assumptions do you make on the PTC extension and things like that on the regulatory front for the wind business? And also I think you've mentioned that you may get an additional award in the 1-gigabit fiber option before the year end.
Is this still the case? So on the -- we're not making any assumptions on PTC.
The reality is right now projects happen until the end of 2015 to complete.
Quite frankly we're even seeing some projects right now that are being planned for 2016 which is really weird to see this far in advance but we're encouraged by it.
But in our '15 assumptions we're taking no position on PTC other than the one that currently exists.
As it relates to gigabit again we're obviously very excited about the projects that we've won.
We do expect further awards before year end.
We're -- and again we think we're just in very early stages.
We think over time the awards there are going to be large and our opportunity to grow that business are going to be substantial.
We'll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jose sorry again just on the wireline and the wireless business.
In terms of the customers and how the orders come in to that business the wireless business it seems like you don't have quite as much visibility.
I mean they have budgets but then you wait for the call out work? With the wireline business is it lumpier? I mean do they give you longer -- I know the 1 gigabit's new but do you expect bigger awards to come in those chunks? So 2 things.
One on the wireless side just to reiterate we obviously work for multiple customers and it's different with each customer.
But when we look at our largest customer historically we have had very predictable revenue streams.
So we get an expectation of what work levels are going to be.
And up until this year those levels were very accurate.
Obviously we had issues in '14 and there was changes in '14 that were in our minds very different than what had happened in 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 since we've been in that business.
Up until this year we had incredible levels of visibility and we executed to those levels of visibility.
We think '14 was an aberration.
We think when we get to 2015 it will look a lot more like it did in previous years not like it did in '14.
So we actually feel really good about our ability to forecast and manage our business in wireless.
Again every customer's different.
Some are more project-related where you have a project you start it and you stop it.
And some of it is more order-based.
But again it's typically a varied business where the visibility is high.
Again not the case in '14 but we expect it to be that in '15.
When we look at wireline again wireline is a pretty broad business.
When we look specifically at the gigabit opportunities we do expect them to come in chunks.
We expect large awards to be program- and project-based.
So you're going to get awards that -- and again every customer's going to be different but you're going to get awards to start on a project and complete.
There's going to be a definite start and a definite completion and whether that's based on miles or homes or whatever it is and you're going to work on that project over a period of time until you complete it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just follow up on the pipeline side of the business.
How much of your work now is associated with oil projects including the workup in the oil sands? And as you think about '15 the projects that you see coming especially into the back half is that mix shifting? Because I would assume more towards gas? Or are we not there yet on the gas side? There's so many projects that it's hard to answer that question because we don't necessarily know what we're going to win right? So there are a number of both liquid and gas projects that are currently -- that we're in talks with.
And I can't tell you today the breakout of what we actually are awarded or able to win what that breakout's going to look like.
There are -- there is activity on both currently and we do think -- and obviously if you think about Mexico Mexico is probably a lot more gas-based because their whole business model is around buying gas from the southern shale.
So there just happens to be more activity down there.
But across the board it's a mix and I can't give you a clear indication as to what our build will look like in '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay but currently? Currently I'd say that our mix is probably a little bit more liquids-based just based on where the prices have been over the last year 2 years.
We have come to the top of the hour.
And the last question comes from Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So I'm just trying to do some math on your guidance.
Pulling out some estimates around Pacer revenues and WesTower it looks like your organic growth guidance is maybe flat to up 4%.
So Jose I know in the past you've been helpful in kind of walking us through a bridge on kind of how to get to that revenue.
Maybe you could talk a little about where maybe you're -- you kind of referenced this throughout the call but maybe more specifically about where you're expecting growth and maybe where you have some operations forecast down in '15? So again to reiterate it's an early estimate.
And obviously we think we're doing this -- we're obviously doing it earlier than we've ever done before but it's a best guess of what we have today.
On the high end we think our Communications business is going to be roughly 2.6.
From an Oil &amp; Gas perspective probably just shy of $2 billion.
Our transmission area...
We're going to show next year in terms of organic growth we certainly expect organic growth to come on the wireline side right? We're seeing that with the awards on the 1 gigabit fiber.
So we would expect to see some nice growth Noelle.
We've talked about our wireless growth as well and we expect to see some organic growth on that front.
I wouldn't say we're planning much in the way on the install-to-home side.
We see a little of bit of growth on the home security front.
So on the Communications front we would expect some good overall organic growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then a quick modeling question.
Of the $191 billion -- $191 million of G&amp;A that you're forecasting for 2015 I was curious how much of that is tied to WesTower and if any of that is -- if there's any kind of purchase-related -- purchase accounting-related intangibles amortization that might be rolling off [indiscernible] past that.
Yes well we've got obviously in the guidance we've given for next year WesTower is included in there as well as an annualization of Pacer.
And both of those combined give you a pretty good increase year-over-year in terms of raw dollars on the D&amp;A side.
Both the -- and the WesTower number just points to our best estimate.
Obviously we'll refine it as we get further along and actually go through the actual purchase price allocations but they're both included in that guidance.
All right.
Appreciate everybody joining us today and look forward to updating you on our next call.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the MasTec fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call initially broadcast on February 27 2015.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Marc? Thanks Vicki and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's fourth quarter and 2014 year-end conference call.
The following statement is made regarding the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements represent the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company undertakes no obligation to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing the continued operations adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release or the Investors and News sections of our website at mastec.com.
As we announced in our press release last night The Audit Committee of the company's board of directors with the assistance of independent counsel is undertaking an independent review primarily to determine if certain cost to complete estimates currently believed to be in the range of zero to $13 million which were recognized during the company's third quarter of 2014 should have been recognized during the second quarter of 2014.
The company currently believes that the review will not negatively impact its full fiscal year 2014 results.
Because the Audit Committee's independent review has not yet been completed and no complete conclusions have been established the company expects to extend until March 17 2015 the filing date of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year just ended as permitted by SEC rules.
We will unfortunately not be able to provide any more information on this issue today.
With us today we have José Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and George Pita our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by José followed by a financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
I will now turn the call over to José.
José? Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2014 year-end call.
Today I will be reviewing our fourth quarter and full-year results as well as providing my outlook for 2015 and the markets that we serve.
Before getting into details I'd like to make some observations about 2014.
While our performance was in line with our expectations it was a challenging year.
First we were expecting significant wireless growth with the award of the dedicated crew program in late 2013 and we aggressively ramped our wireless resources for what we expected to be a strong year of growth.
As you know those revenues didn't materialize and our cost structure left in place had to be adjusted which created margin pressure for the balance of the year.
On a full-year basis our wireless business was flat year over year in terms of revenue but down significantly in earnings because of the cost pressures associated with this ramp.
Despite challenging market conditions we expect significant margin improvements in 2015.
Also in 2014 we experienced negative organic growth in our oil and gas business as 2013 was a very good year with higher levels of large diameter projects versus 2014 where larger projects as expected didn't materialize.
Despite these challenges we met our expectations and we are encouraged about our future.
While we are managing through the uncertainties of commodity prices our visibility for the balance of 2015 and more importantly into 2016 is very strong.
There are a significant number of broad-based opportunities across a number of different markets that we serve which we expect will transpire over the coming months and will solidify our views going forward.
Now some full-year highlights; 2014 revenue was up 7% to $4.6 billion.
2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $425 million.
Full-year cash flow from operations was $322 million and 2014 full-year continuing operations adjusted EPS was $1.57.
For the fourth quarter revenue was $1.24 billion.
Fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $112 million.
Fourth quarter cash flow from operations was $241 million and fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EPS was $0.40.
In summary while we performed to expectations we are disappointed with our results for 2014.
We expected higher levels of growth.
However with proper execution we have significant opportunities ahead of us.
We strongly believe that we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of these opportunities that our markets afford us.
As we've seen over the last few months 2015 will bring its own set of challenges.
Declining commodity prices and currency exchange rates are putting pressure on some of our markets.
However we are actively pursuing and engaging on a number of opportunities that will impact our business in the second half of 2015 and to a much greater extent in 2016 and beyond.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communications revenue for the quarter was $561 million versus $498 million in last year's fourth quarter and $2.041 billion for the year compared to $1.963 billion last year.
However as described earlier our Communications EBITDA segment margins went from 12.6% in 2013 to 9.9% in 2014.
This drop was primarily related to us ramping up our wireless resources for the growth we were expecting.
Again we expect a significant improvement in our Communications segment EBITDA margin in 2015.
Our installation-to-the-home revenue was up 10% in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 2013.
We are proud of our efforts in expanding this business during the last year and more importantly our success in diversifying our customer base.
We believe we are the largest third-party independent fulfillment company in the United States with broad geographic coverage.
We are excited about a number of different opportunities with multiple customers who are looking for nationwide fulfillment services.
As it relates to wireline projects we are very bullish on the growth of 1-gigabit opportunities.
We have now been awarded more than $300 million worth of gigabit projects of which only the 18-month estimated revenue is included in our backlog.
We expect activity levels to increase throughout 2015.
We expect further awards in 2015 and solid revenue growth in 2016.
Our wireless revenue was up about 11% for the year but about flat organically.
Our recent acquisition of WesTower significantly enhanced our geographic service offering which we believe strengthens our competitive position as we continue to diversify our customer base.
For our largest customer we increased our footprint during the fourth quarter into three new states.
While their capital expenditure levels are reducing in 2015 we are comfortable that we are right-sizing for the expected levels of work.
This puts us in a very different position going into 2015 than we faced in 2014.
We believe that carriers will continue to use their networks as a point of differentiation and data demand and growth will continue to drive the required levels of network spend.
Wireless networks continue to grow and evolve and we play an important part of that evolution.
Revenue in our Electrical Transmission business was $147 million versus $107 million in last year's fourth quarter and $474 million for 2014 compared to $429 million in 2013.
This was our highest level of quarterly revenues since we started the transmission business.
We also expect double-digit growth in 2015.
We are pleased with our progress.
While we wait for larger projects to be awarded we are winning a number of smaller jobs and in the process expanding and diversifying our customer base.
Many of these same customers will be awarding much larger projects and our presence on their system is important.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue was $94 million for the fourth quarter versus $57 million in last year's fourth quarter and $357 million for 2014 compared to $294 million in 2013.
Backlog was up nicely both year over year and sequentially.
We expect revenue growth in 2015 of approximately 10%.
Again customer and industry diversification has been an important goal for us and in 2014 approximately 19% of our revenues in this segment came from non-renewable sources.
Our Oil and Gas Pipeline segment had revenues of $436 million for the fourth quarter compared to revenues of $494 million in last year's fourth quarter and $1.738 billion of revenues for 2014 versus $1.628 billion in 2013.
As expected large diameter long line construction activity in 2014 was significantly lower than in 2013 which helped lead to a margin reduction from 13.3% in 2013 to 11.1% in 2014.
For 2015 we expect a strong market in the U.S.
improving towards the second half of the year offset by some recent weakness in Canada.
Lower oil prices are impacting our Canadian business in a much more direct way than in the United States.
In 2014 our pipeline business in Canada was approximately $695 million.
It's important to note that this only includes a partial year for our Pacer acquisition.
Between the effects of oil prices and the Canadian exchange rate we're expecting 2015 revenues for our Canadian operations of approximately $550 million.
This impact is the primary driver of our updated view on guidance that we included in our press release.
Despite this issue we are confident in the longer-term growth capabilities of our Canadian markets.
Late last year we were awarded and completed a larger diameter pipeline project in Canada and believe that to be an excellent opportunity for growth in both the near- and longer-term.
Outside of Canada pipeline construction opportunities are at very high levels.
During the fourth quarter we won and signed approximately $500 million of new awards most of which will be completed in 2015.
Subsequent to yearend we are having an excellent quarter of new bookings which we expect to talk about on our first quarter call.
Our visibility into the pipeline business for 2016 and 2017 is excellent and quite frankly improving.
In addition we are beginning to see the fruits of our efforts relative to the opportunities in Mexico.
Over the last year we've been very public about the growing opportunity to compete for projects relating to constitutional energy reforms in Mexico.
Today I'm very excited to announce an unprecedented opportunity for MasTec.
As a member of a consortium with Energy Transfer Partners and Carlos Slim's Grupo Carso MasTec has been awarded two large and important projects by CFE the Federal Electricity Commission which is the Mexican government's state-owned entity in charge of generation transmission and distribution of electricity.
Both projects are at the forefront of CFE's ability to significantly reduce electricity tariffs as the utility shifts towards cleaner and cheaper sources for electricity generation such as natural gas.
At the end of 2013 the commercial tariff in Mexico was $0.23 per kilowatt hour while the tariff in the U.S.
was half that amount.
The first project Waha to Presidio consists of the Waha hydro system with a capacity of 6 Bcf per day and the capability to connect over 12 pipelines and the construction of the Waha-Presidio pipeline with a capacity of 1.3 Bcf per day through a 143-mile 42-inch pipeline which MasTec will build.
The pipeline will interconnect at the U.S.-Mexico border at Presidio-Ojinaga.
The second project Waha to San Elizario consists of the construction of 194 miles of 42-inch pipeline also with the capacity of 1.3 Bcf per day which MasTec will also build.
Each project represents a 24-year contract with CFE to provide transportation services of natural gas from the United States to Mexico.
The consortium is responsible for the design development construction and operation of the two pipeline system.
MasTec plays two significant roles on these projects.
As a contractor MasTec will help build these pipelines with Energy Transfer as the customer as they are the project construction manager.
As a member of the consortium MasTec will hold an equity interest in these projects for their useful life.
Together the two projects in total represent a net present value of over $1.3 billion as calculated by CFE.
Both projects which are in the United States will begin construction in either late 2015 or early 2016 and must be in service by 2017.
CFE has also announced over a dozen similar projects as part of energy reform which will all bid over the next year.
To recap despite the challenges we faced in 2014 and the current uncertainty around commodity prices in 2015 I am convinced that we have positioned this company in the right markets at the right time.
I am also convinced that 2014 and even 2015 is not reflective of our earnings potential.
We have excellent growth opportunities in our oil and gas transmission fulfillment wireline and wireless markets.
Over the last year we faced some adversity and market trends haven't helped; that's not an excuse.
I'm extremely proud of MasTec's accomplishments.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the men and women of MasTec for their commitment to safety their hard work and their sacrifices in making 2014 another solid year.
Our people are our most important asset and I'm truly looking forward to showing you what they can accomplish.
I will now turn the call over to George for our financial review.
George? Thanks José and good morning everyone.
Today I'm going to cover fourth quarter and 2014 full year financial results as well as our 2015 guidance update.
I will also cover our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we're discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA and as Marc already mentioned reconciliations of non-GAAP measures can be found in our press release.
As previously indicated continuing operations adjusted results for the fourth quarter of 2014 and fiscal 2015 exclude the impact of acquisition integration cost related to the WesTower acquisition.
We incurred approximately $5.3 million of these costs in our fourth quarter of 2014 and anticipate approximately $15 million of these costs will be incurred primarily during the first half of 2015.
These costs are principally comprised of employee separation lease and equipment exit costs as well as one-time training efforts to implement our systems and processes.
Our integration effort for these operations is proceeding as planned and we anticipate this should be substantially completed by the third quarter of 2015.
Before I get into detailed remarks here are some highlights of our fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 performance.
Q4 revenue grew by 7% to $1.2 billion Q4 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was in line with guidance at $112 million; and Q4 adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.02 better than guidance at $0.40 per share.
The highlight of the fourth quarter from a financial perspective was cash flow from operations which came in at $241 million for the quarter and $322 million for the full year.
This represents a 61% and $121 million increase in annual cash flow from operations versus 2013 during a challenging period in which our earnings were less than last year.
As a result of the improved fourth quarter cash flow from operations we were able to fund the $200 million WesTower acquisition without increasing our debt levels when compared to the third quarter.
We entered 2015 with ample liquidity and solid credit metrics despite the significant capital deployed for the Pacer and WesTower acquisitions in the back half of 2014.
Now let me get into some more detail regarding fourth quarter results.
Fourth quarter 2014 results were better than our guidance with continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share at $0.40 versus our guidance of $0.38 per share.
Continuing operations diluted earnings per share were $0.33 compared to our guidance of $0.28.
While our continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was essentially at our guidance the combination of slightly lower interest depreciation and amortization and weighted average share count led to improved earnings per share results.
I'm pleased to recall that as we previously indicated the inclusion of WesTower results for the fourth quarter of 2014 was slightly dilutive to fourth quarter earnings per share due to the combination of abnormally low wireless project activity during the quarter coupled with the absorption of higher pre-integration levels of WesTower operating costs.
As we work to integrate WesTower into our existing wireless operations we expect to generate cost synergies and this will improve the operating results of our combined wireless operations as we head towards the second half of 2015.
Fourth quarter 2014 revenue was $1.237 billion up 7% from last year.
Our Communications segment revenue increased $63 million driven by the addition of approximately $100 million in WesTower revenue.
As expected and previously announced organic wireless project revenue decreased during the fourth quarter both sequentially and versus the same period last year.
Oil and gas segment revenue during the fourth quarter decreased 12% compared to last year and this was primarily due to lower levels of long-haul activity this year.
As last year during the fourth quarter we were in the midst of a large long-haul project.
Highlights during the quarter include Electrical Transmission segment revenue which grew 37% versus last year and Power Generation and Industrial revenue which grew 65% versus last year.
Fourth quarter cost of revenue excluding depreciation and amortization as a percent of revenue was 86.3% of revenue compared to 85.1% last year with the increase primarily caused by project inefficiencies and increased overhead rates due to lower levels of wireless project activity within our Communications segment.
Depreciation and amortization expense was 3.4% of revenue in Q4 compared to 3.3% last year and this reflects the impact of capital expenditures in our Oil and gas segment as well as a higher levels of amortization for the WesTower acquisition.
Fourth quarter 2014 general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue on a GAAP basis was 5.2% compared to 5.0% a year ago.
Fourth quarter 2014 GAAP general and administrative expenses include approximately $5.3 million of acquisition integration costs related to the WesTower requisition as well as $4.4 million in non-cash stock compensation expense.
During the fourth quarter we recorded a charge of approximately $6 million net of tax to reflect final disposition costs for assets retained in connection with the 2013 sale of our discontinued GlobeTec water and sewer operation.
As of yearend 2014 we no longer have any assets related to this discontinued operation reflected on our balance sheet.
Fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA decreased to $112 million from $123 million in 2013.
On a rate basis fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin of 9.0% was down from 10.6% last year and as I mentioned earlier this includes the impact of acquired WesTower operations.
And finally fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.40 compared with $0.53 a year ago.
Turning to full-year results full-year 2014 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.57 ahead of our guidance of $1.55.
And again this is primarily due to lower fourth quarter interest depreciation amortization and share count.
Full-year diluted continuing operations earnings per share were $1.42 compared to $1.74 in 2013.
Full-year 2014 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $425 million at 9.2% of revenue in line with expectations.
And as we've indicated in the past the disruption in wireless project activity that occurred in 2014 significantly impacted our Communications segment profitability and we expect a lesser level of disruption in 2015 in this segment as well as improved continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin results.
As I think this bears repeating full-year 2014 cash flow from operations grew 61% to $322 million compared to $200 million last year an increase of $121 million.
Our 10 largest customers for 2014 were AT&amp;T at 21% of total revenue.
DIRECTV was 12%.
Enbridge was 8%.
MidAmerican Energy was 7%.
Energy Transfer was 6%.
And Duke Energy CNRL Plains All American Pipeline CenturyLink and Starwood Energy were all at 2% of revenues.
As we have previously indicated AT&amp;T customer revenue is comprised of three separate service agreements: wireless wireline and installed-to-home security installation services.
Individual construction projects comprised 51% of our annual revenue with master service agreements comprising 49%.
And this mix is generally in line with recent trends.
At year end 2014 our 18-month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.3 billion compared with $4.1 billion for both the third quarter of 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2013.
This represents a 5% increase sequentially and over last year.
Backlog growth occurred in the Power Generation and Industrial segment as several verbal project awards were finalized and signed and as well in our Communications segment.
Communications segment backlog increased during the fourth quarter reflecting the increase in WesTower operations and was partially offset by lower levels of expected 2015 wireless project activity.
Now let me talk about our fiscal year cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
Full-year 2014 cash flow from operations was $322 million compared to $200 million in 2013 a 61% increase.
Cash flow from operations during the fourth quarter was $241 million compared to $71 million during the fourth quarter of last year and that's an increase of $170 million.
Strong fourth quarter cash flow came from the seasonality of operations some project closeout and retention payments and the initiation of working capital reduction actions at WesTower.
Because of this strong cash flow we were able to complete the $200 million cash acquisition of WesTower without increasing our overall debt levels.
We indicated earlier in 2014 that second half 2014 cash flow would improve when compared to the first half and these results confirm that statement.
Liquidity at December 31 calculated as cash plus availability on our bank credit line was $588 million giving us ample resources for growth opportunities in 2015 and beyond.
During the fourth quarter we retired our last remaining $100 million convertible notes and expanded our revolving credit facility which has the effect of reducing our cost of capital.
Regarding our capital structure at year end we had $1.148 billion in total equity $1.111 billion in net debt and reported continuing operations adjusted EBITDA in other words not adjusted to reflect the pro forma earnings benefit of recent acquisitions of $425 million for 2014.
In summary all of our credit ratios continue to be in good shape.
And given our expectation for continued strong cash flow from operations we expect to continue to improve leverage metrics in 2015.
Now as we indicated in yesterday's release we have purchased approximately 3 million shares thus far during our share repurchase program in the first quarter of 2015.
And the purchases we've made during this period have been at an average price of $18.96 per share.
Our fourth quarter accounts receivable days outstanding or DSOs were 87 days compared to 88 days for Q3.
Remember that during the quarter we added in WesTower's pre-acquisition working capital which was much higher than our existing wireless operations.
And while we began to make progress towards reducing these levels in Q4 it still negatively impacted our overall DSOs.
We typically expect that our DSOs will range somewhere in the 80 days depending on the timing of project closeouts et cetera.
Regarding our spending on equipment full-year 2014 cash CapEx net of equipment disposals was $92 million compared to $110 million in 2013.
The total of our full-year cash CapEx capital leases and financed equipment again net of equipment disposals was $168 million in 2014 compared to $221 million in 2013 a 24% reduction.
In summary 2014 was a challenging year as we were faced with a sharp change in expected demand for wireless project services in the back half of the year which significantly impacted our profitability.
Despite the significance of this challenge we still managed to deliver reasonable earnings results while greatly improving our cash flow from operations.
Now turning to our 2015 outlook significant fluctuations in worldwide oil prices in the latter part of 2014 and into 2015 have made forecasting the 2015 demand for our Oil and Gas services challenging.
During the first quarter of 2015 we have recently begun to experience project slowdowns and deferrals in our Canadian Oil and Gas operations and it is difficult to predict if that impact will spread.
While it seems that worldwide oil prices have stabilized recently the oil markets have been extremely volatile making near-term estimating difficult.
Based on current market conditions our full-year 2015 guidance revenue range estimate is $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA range is $450 million to $480 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share range is $1.65 to $1.87.
The 2015 revenue range represents a flat to 4% increase over 2014 with a 6% to 13% increase in continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and 5% to 19% increase in continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Implicit in this guidance is a 60 to 80 basis point improvement of our 2015 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margins to between 9.8% and 10% of revenue compared to 9.2% of revenue in 2014.
Also included in our 2015 guidance is the negative impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian dollar on our Canadian operations.
And during 2014 Canadian operations translated into U.S.
dollars at a rate of slightly over $0.90 and the current exchange rates today are closer to $0.80.
Our 2015 full-year guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39%.
We've slightly increased our tax rate for both our final 2014 yearend and 2015 for the impact of recently enacted tax law changes as well as the lower expected mix of Canadian operation earnings due to a stronger U.S.
dollar.
We expect 2015 interest levels will be slightly lower than 2014 levels at about $48 million as we benefit from the interest rate arbitrage associated with the pay down of our convertible notes in 2014.
We currently expect 2015 depreciation and amortization expense will grow at a slightly higher pace than overall revenue and our rate basis will approximate 3.7% to 3.9% of revenue.
And this level includes the impact of a full year of both depreciation and amortization of intangibles associated with Pacer and WesTower acquisitions.
We also expect that 2015 CapEx levels will slightly moderate some from 2014 levels with cash CapEx net of disposals of approximately $80 million another $70 million to $80 million of capital lease and equipment financing CapEx for a total CapEx net of disposals of about $150 million to $160 million.
Our estimate for 2015 share count for diluted earnings per share is about 83 million shares and 83.3 million shares for the first quarter.
This estimate includes the impact of approximately 3 million shares in share repurchases completed to-date during the first quarter of 2015.
We currently estimate Q1 2015 revenue of approximately $1 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA in the range of $75 million to $80 million compared to $75 million during the first quarter of last year.
Lastly we expect Q1 2015 continuing operations adjusted earnings per share to range between $0.16 and $0.19 per share compared to $0.21 per share last year.
And as many of you are aware our first quarter typically is our lowest quarter in terms of revenue and overall profit levels from a seasonality perspective.
Our expectation will be that first half 2015 revenues would grow somewhere in the low single-digits over last year's levels.
And that first half EBITDA margins will be slightly below our 2015 annual expectation.
This means that broadly speaking we're planning the second half of 2015 relatively flat from a top line revenue expectation perspective and this is primarily due to uncertainty in second half project starts for our Oil and Gas segment services.
That said we would expect second half EBITDA margins to slightly exceed our annual expectation due to the non-recurrence of the significant wireless project disruptions we experienced in the back half of 2014 and the expected completion of the WesTower integration.
In summary we ended 2014 with strong cash flow generation and entered 2015 with a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity to take advantage of the numerous opportunities ahead of us.
We believe we're in a great position to offer excellent long-term growth potential in revenue profit and margin.
And that concludes my remarks and now I will turn it over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Thank you.
We will go first to Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
And nice quarter.
Thank you Alex.
Good morning.
José your visibility into the Oil and gas segment 2015 and 2016 sounds pretty strong.
Backlog is up year-over-year right now.
It sounds like 1Q bidding opportunities are very very strong maybe some of those projects don't start right away but bidding activity is strong.
What is your outlook for margins and pipeline? And do you think the U.S.
pipeline operations can see some organic growth in 2015? A couple of good questions.
First we're very bullish on the oil and gas markets especially as we look out going into 2016 even 2017.
There is a lot going on right now.
It's a very active market.
We would expect that as 2015 rolls along our backlog in that segment is going to increase dramatically.
From a margin perspective when you think about the business you know last year at this time we were talking about some pressure to margins because I think everybody was expecting the pipeline business to pick up in a big way and it hadn't yet I think a lot of those margin pressures subsided as the year went on.
So I think margins in the business are good.
Obviously what ends up driving margins is utilization levels so as you've seen in our business in 2013 we were able to utilize our resources at a higher level especially with larger pipe work which translated into much better margins and I definitely see that taking place as we look into 2016 and beyond and maybe even in the second half of 2015.
So we're very very encouraged by that.
And I think I might have missed the last part of your question Alex.
Can your U.S.
pipeline business grow organically? I think it will be close.
Obviously a lot of the reductions that we're expecting if we look at the overall business year over year we think that because of the Canadian exchange rates we'll have a slight downtick to the business overall.
And it all depends on when projects start in the U.S.
So if we get some starts in the fourth quarter for example then yes I think we can have some nice organic growth year over year.
If not I think it's going to be a flattish year going into 2016 where there will be flat growth.
And if I can ask a second question do you think the increase in your wireline 1-gigabit work can offset the year-over-year decline in AT&amp;T wireless? In 2015? Yes.
Probably not.
When we look at a lot of the 1-gigabit opportunities that we're looking at I think they are slower starts for lots of reasons that will pick up dramatically.
So as we see that business and there's obviously different types of players in that business but for some it takes longer to get started and for those we'll see a much greater ramp as we look into 2016 than we will into 2015.
We'll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys good cash this quarter.
Good morning Andy.
Inc.</span></strong> José so look you guys as you know you've cut guidance a couple of times this quarter and your guidance range is pretty wide which you don't normally give.
And I know you talked about the limited visibility especially in oil and gas.
But maybe you could talk about what would need to happen for MasTec to reach the middle or higher end of the EPS range I guess my concern is we all know there's a lot of visibility issues here this year in Oil and Gas why would we not model lowering your range versus highering your range? So it's a good question Andy.
Let me start maybe couple of months back.
I think the initial look at guidance that we gave for 2015 and at the time we admitted was very early for us.
We did because we'd just closed on our WesTower acquisition.
We thought that we needed to help people think about what WesTower did to our business going into 2015 and what it meant from a financial perspective.
We thought it was prudent at the time.
Shortly thereafter our largest customer for both of those businesses both for MasTec's existing business and for WesTower they cut CapEx which forced us to take a relook at that time of our guidance and we issued a press release lowering our guidance at that time.
And then since that time oil prices took obviously a very difficult run through the later part of the year that ended up dramatically looking different than when we issued that first guidance.
So we're very frustrated because we think we got a good understanding and then we have things happen to us that are somewhat outside of our control that have forced us to relook at guidance.
So as we're thinking about the guidance that we're providing today we're obviously taking everything we know into account.
But we're being very conservative on making any judgment calls outside of that.
So I would say that we've given a wider range than we typically do because quite frankly we have no intent of hopefully changing that again.
So we feel comfortable with the range that we put out.
I think that where in that range we end up has to do with all the opportunities we talked about.
I think I'm extremely excited because I think very few times in our history we had the amount of broad-based opportunities that we have today.
We don't have opportunities in one business.
We actually have opportunities in almost all of our businesses and some are very large.
So to the extent that those play out and have impact in 2015 then hopefully we'll get either to the higher end of our guidance or better.
And if some of those take longer to play out then I think we'll be towards the lower end of the guidance range.
And I wish I could tell you that I know but that's kind of the reason we put out a wider range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful José.
And then can we talk about the Communications margin increase I'm just curious what do you think is under your control in terms of the increase is it most of what you're doing? In other words is it just integrating WesTower is it ramping up the businesses 1-gigabit all that kind of stuff? Do you need to take out more cost in Communications or do you feel very confident that you can get this margin increase? Again we're coming into 2015 very differently than where we were in 2014.
I mean in 2014 at this time we were ramping at very high levels we were really excited about the business we thought we were going to have a lot of growth and we did a lot around the business to increase the number of people we had we bought a lot of equipment for the business.
So we invested a lot in the business and obviously the revenues didn't materialize.
We were waiting to get visibility.
So we probably took a little bit longer to act than what we should have and we kind of found ourselves throughout most of the year overstaffed for the amount of business that we had which had a big drag to margins.
And I think as fourth quarter is also a little bit skewed because it's the first quarter that we have WesTower so margins in our Communications segment were definitely negatively impacted by the WesTower acquisition.
So when we back all that out and we look at how we did in the fourth quarter outside of that we were very pleased with our progress.
We look at 2015 we look at where we're sized today relative to what we know the business is and we don't think those issues will reoccur in 2015 versus 2014 which makes us feel that we're going to make a lot of progress on margins this year.
We had a very good year in 2013 relative to margins.
At that time we were saying we actually thought margins could improve over time.
And quite frankly we still believe that.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
This is Sean on for Tahira today.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> So first off I'd just like to know if you have any clarity from your telecommunications customers regarding any potential changes to spending programs in the wake of the FCCs approval of Title II rules yesterday.
The bookings and revenue growth outlook you guys gave in your prepared remarks suggest that there probably isn't a big change to at least the short to medium term economics of network investment but I would like to get your thoughts there.
So again obviously it was the decision that happened yesterday.
When we've looked at forecasting for the year again we think we've taken very conservative views based on what we noted.
A) it will be interesting to see – I think a lot of customers have already put their opinions out publicly and they differ and I think there are a lot of people on different ends of the scale.
So as we've looked at our book of business irrespective of what decision was coming down we didn't think it was going to affect nor our business in 2015 and quite frankly the outlook going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> All right thanks for that José.
Next moving over to midstream could you just give us an update on the nature of your relationships with your key midstream customers as it relates to movement towards more preferred alliances or otherwise? We typically don't do that.
I think we've got great relationships with our customers.
We've got a couple customers that we've obviously been doing a lot of work for.
I don't think anything has changed there.
The nature of contracting in the business is changing somewhat because there's so much work coming that I think we're having a lot more dialogue around partnerships than historically we've had.
But I'm not going to get into any specifics with any particular customers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks for the insight guys and great quarter.
All right thank you.
We'll go next to Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
I'm curious on the Mexico stuff.
It sounds obviously very exciting.
I was just wondering.
Obviously I think you walked through it a little bit in your prepared remarks.
But just with you being part of the consortium I guess with an equity interest can you just maybe give an insight of how that's going to work from a cost and I guess your benefit or your revenue perspective as those projects go forward? So again twofold.
First we're very excited about the construction opportunities that those projects bring.
As part of one of the consortium members Energy Transfer is responsible for the construction management of those contracts so we will have a contract with Energy Transfer to procure and perform those services.
We will be paid by Energy Transfer and it's an arm's length agreement between Energy Transfer and MasTec on the construction of those pipelines.
On a separate side as an owner of the consortium and as a member of the ownership group of the consortium we're going to have an interest in a 24-year – and actually the initial term is 24 years.
We will actually own the header in the pipeline.
There is a 24-year agreement for a payment stream for the full capacity of that pipeline.
So we will enjoy the benefits of the ownership of that consortium.
We don't own a majority of that consortium obviously so we will book that as a member of the consortium.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So two completely different ways to look at it.
One will be the construction activities associated with the job up front which we will be paid for in its entirety.
And then two we will make an investment in the consortium that will have a long-term asset which again for us is something new.
This is the first major equity investment that we make in a project where we will own something.
We think the returns are phenomenal and we're very very excited to be a part of it.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great color thank you.
And then I think somebody asked this just sticking on oil and gas at least.
But it sounded like you guys had a lot of good bookings in fourth quarter and even so far this quarter and we're hearing a lot of pipeline stuff going on.
But could you just maybe talk about the regions you're seeing some activity and even also just the types of work that you're seeing awarded just given that all the turmoil is going on? We're seeing broad-based activity.
So we're seeing strong activity across the different shale basins and we're seeing very strong activity on long-line construction that's planned.
Again a lot of the strength in the industry is in the United States.
The Canadian market is a little bit different and obviously the oil sands are being more negatively impacted than some of the other parts of Canada.
But from a U.S.
perspective very strong very broad-based activity.
We will go next to Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Adam.
On the wireless side José I'm curious if there are any other drivers to offset AT&amp;T.
You've talked about Sprint in the past.
And then with all the acquisitions that AT&amp;T has made in Mexico is that an opportunity to do some upgrade work there? So a couple things.
One we're very excited about the opportunities in the wireless market as a whole.
Again we think we've got a great relationship with AT&amp;T.
We've built a great business there.
We support them.
We think we're doing a great job for them.
But all along part of our strategy has been we need to diversify our customer base.
We need to grow with other customers.
It was really the driving force behind our WesTower acquisition.
And with that said we're actually more bullish today probably than when we made the acquisition of what the acquisition can do for us from a customer diversification perspective.
I would expect that over the course of this year you're going to see that materialize and we're going to see a much more broad-based wireless business with multiple carriers going forward and we're really really excited about that.
As it relates to AT&amp;T with some of their international expansion obviously we are in Mexico today building wireless infrastructure for some of the existing Mexican carriers.
We understand that AT&amp;T is obviously going to go down there and they will have their own investment to make.
Again we think we're uniquely positioned because I think we're one of the few providers that they've ever worked with that's already there performing those services.
So we look forward to seeing what that means for us.
So yes it's an opportunity and we'll see how that plays out.
Okay.
And then I want to make sure I understood the 10-K delay.
That's just an issue between – where some of the costs – I guess would that impact the COGS line just between Q2 and Q3? There is no annual impact here.
So what we've said is unfortunately we can only refer back to the statement that Marc read.
But yes we're saying that we do not expect it to affect full-year 2014 financial results.
We'll go next to Dan Mannes with Avondale.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Dan.
A couple questions here.
First as it relates to Canada obviously you have FX and a challenging commodity price environment.
Can you talk about the type of work that you're seeing slowing down there? And does this apply across oil and gas and also into electric or is this really civil and midstream on the oil and gas side? Obviously we don't have a significant presence in Canada on the transmission side.
We've got an office up there.
We're obviously going after some opportunities but we're not a large established player there.
So it probably wouldn't be correct for me to talk about that because we're not as impacted in that business because we're not in that business in a big way.
As it relates to the gas and oil side of the business the oil sands related activity is being more impacted than anything else.
But we are seeing some slight impact to the midstream market.
As you think about some of the larger diameter work that work tends to be a little bit more stable because those projects are in planning process for a lot longer.
And by the time they decide to build them they usually go forward with them because they've got commitments and they've got significant costs already built into those projects.
With all that said our customers very early on in the processes as prices were reducing were very vocal with us that they weren't planning to change their plans.
Subsequently some of them started to make some CapEx reductions.
It's still a positive environment.
There's still a lot of bidding going on in the market.
But again based on customers' total CapEx spend and a lot of the announcements that have been made we've got a view of what we expect and again much more driven by the oil sands than anything else.
Got it.
And then real quick just on the other side of the equation any benefits here from lower oil particularly as I think about install-to-the-home and all the trucks you put on the road every day.
I'm just wondering if there's any margin benefit you may see over some other parts of your business from the lower cost of oil and diesel? We use a lot of fuel so the answer is yes.
I mean we're obviously getting the same benefit that everybody else is getting on those prices.
Fuel price is already beginning to tick up again.
So we've seen a pretty decent shift here in the last couple of weeks on average fuel prices across the country.
So again we've taken a pretty conservative view on our models.
We haven't modeled in the lower prices that we saw very early in the year because we don't really know where they're going to go.
So to the extent that they continue to stay at those levels then there will be a better benefit than if they continue to tick up like they've been doing in the last couple of weeks.
We'll go next to William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Good morning José George and Marc.
Good morning Bill.
Nicely done.
Let's go right to Mexico.
The first project 143 miles what is the underlying diameter of that award.
And then the second one I did hear it was 42-inches.
How many miles was the second award? So they're both 42-inch projects.
The first project is 143 miles the second project is 194 miles so it's about 350 miles in total.
Excellent.
And have they both been placed or are they going to be placed eventually into backlog.
How should I look about that and then more importantly the underlying margins there and potentially for George the DSOs in that market what should we expect there? I just want to make a couple of things clear again right.
So when we talk about that market so we will be working for the Energy Transfer these particular projects happen to be in the U.S.
so we will be getting paid like any other pipeline project there's going to be a lot of these projects will ultimately – a big degree of these projects will be financed through project financing.
So that's how a lot of our existing customers fund their work this is going to be no different.
So we expect to be paid under the same terms and conditions that were typically paid for in our project work.
What was the second part of the question? Will you be able to utilize your other tentacles in Electrical Transmission and some Power Gen as well maybe encompassing some other components that maybe needed as the build out occurs down there? So obviously there's no high voltage transmission on this project but there is a lot of we are building a header and the header requires a lot of services that we also procure outside of pipeline construction that we also hope to be involved and so the answer is yes.
We'll go next to Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
My first question relates to backlog.
You obviously had some very strong large project bookings in the quarter.
I was a little bit surprised to see oil and gas like flat sequentially.
Can you talk about if you kind of had to go back and maybe reevaluate your Canadian backlog was there a bit of offset there just some of these large project wins.
And then secondly can you tell us either organic backlog growth or maybe just quantify that acquired WesTower backlog? Sure.
So from an oil and gas perspective again we were awarded about $500 million during the fourth quarter I'd say a little bit of that worked out performed and executed in the fourth quarter.
The balance of that was almost one-to-one bookings in the fourth quarter.
A lot of the things that we've talked about like were not in the – question that I didn't ask that that Bill asked was when would this be put in backlog.
So a lot of the stuff we've talked about was not yet in backlog as of December 31.
Two these projects in Mexico that we've talked about one of the projects has now been signed we do expect to get the second one signed before the end of this quarter.
But those are the contracts with CFE again we will be having a construction contract with Energy Transfer so depending on the timing of when we actually execute those contracts it will or will not be in backlog in Q1.
For all intents and purposes in our mind it's in backlog whether we actually include it in our backlog in Q1 or not we'll see over the next month.
And yes the backlogs associated with our Canadian businesses were changed to effect both the Canadian exchange rate issues and any project deferrals or cancellations that there were.
So we did relook at that and that has been adjusted at our year-end backlog.
So year-end backlog should calculate and workout to what it is today.
As we talk about some of our Communications backlog we did add in WesTower backlog into our backlog calculation.
At the same time we did take a significant reduction to overall wireless backlog just based on what we knew today.
And again we're hoping that that gets better over time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just digging into the softness you're seeing in Canada a little bit.
Is that more the kind of work you're doing with Pacer where it's kind of more projects capital construction projects or is it also in the big country operation in more of the midstream business? Well the truth is we're seeing it in both; from a pure percentage base business maybe we're seeing it in a little bit more of Pacer but we're definitely seeing it in both.
We'll go next to Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
This is Jerimiah on line for Vishal.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Good.
So just wanted to ask about the future Mexican opportunity you mentioned a couple of other projects that are going to be bid out soon.
So what's the kind of timeline that you're looking at for those and when could you actually see a construction timeline ahead of you? So again just to reiterate what I said there is about another dozen projects that they've announced that we'll be bidding over the course of the next year obviously if they bid those and we win you don't start those projects right away from a CFE perspective because these are our peer designed construct and operated contracts.
There is a whole other segment to the Mexico market which is a lot more like what we do in the U.S.
which is direct awards from for example like the Pemex.
We really didn't cover that today.
We're also been actively engaged around that and we are hopeful that we're going to win some stuff there too.
But we didn't cover that.
In our minds we expect further awards in 2015 and we expect that market to be very robust for us going into 2016 and beyond.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then also on a different note here.
When we saw this two-week extension to the wind PTC at the end of last year we heard some potential I guess future eligibility for wind PTC.
And so I guess is that influencing your business directly? Or do you see kind of more of an uptick than you might have expected this year because of that? We were always expecting a really good 2015.
I think if we're surprised we're probably surprised at the strength of what we're now seeing for 2016.
We think 2016 is going to be a better year partly due to that small extension because some are using that to push construction activities into 2016.
We'll go next to Ali Hemmings with D.A.
Davidson.
We'll go next to Veny Aleksandrov with FIG Partners.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Veny.
My question is on the margins side.
You had a couple of great years kept acquiring companies growing organically and EBITDA margins have improved.
And now because the business went away when you ramped up production the margins are getting hurt.
So what can you do and I know it's a very tough process but how can we go back to the double-digit-plus EBITDA margins? So look for us it's all about execution.
We're not making excuses but obviously the change in the market demand for our services and the rapid changes that we've had to face in the business over the last year in a couple of our markets have really negatively driven our margins.
So we've got to do a better job at that we got to execute better.
We got to understand and model our business better and right size quicker.
I think we're doing that and I think you'll see the fruits of our labor over the next year.
And I think going into 2016 where we are actually expecting some very solid growth across a number of our different segments I think we're hoping to get to levels that we haven't previously seen.
Perfect.
And my second question the $15 million integration cost that you talked about in addition for the first half of 2015 is not in the guidance right? The integration costs are shown as a Reg.
G adjustment in our guidance Veny so that when you look at them on an adjusted basis we've not included those costs just like we did in the fourth quarter.
And we said they were $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We expect about $15 million thereabouts in 2015 and expect that to be principally done by the third quarter.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to José for any additional or closing remarks.
Well again I just want to thank everybody for participating today.
We weren't necessarily happy with the year that we had.
We're looking forward to moving on and look forward to updating everybody on our first quarter call.
So thank you for participating.
That concludes today's Q4 and 2014 year-end call.
Once again we want to thank all of you.
You may now disconnect.
Please stand by.
We are about to begin.
Welcome to MasTec's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on May 12 2015.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would to turn the conference over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jessica and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's First Quarter Conference Call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements reflect the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company undertakes no obligation to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations and adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measure not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings press release or the Investors and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
As we have previously announced the independent accounting investigation by the Audit Committee of the company's Board of Directors has delayed the filing of MasTec's 2014 Annual Report on form 10-K and will also delay the filing of the company's 2015 first quarter 10-Q.
The Audit Committee is working diligently to complete the investigation in order to permit the filing of the company's 2014 Form 10-K and first quarter 10-Q as soon as possible.
Because the Audit Committee independent review has not yet been completed and no conclusions have been established we will unfortunately not be able to provide any more information regarding the status expected timing or outcome on this issue today.
In addition all financial results on this conference call should be considered preliminary as this information has not undergone the complete review by the company's outside auditors that is customary for the release of interim results and filing of Form 10-Q.
The preliminary information represents the company's good faith belief as to the company's results for the periods presented but is pending any potential impact from the investigation and investors are cautioned that such information is neither final nor complete and should not be relied upon as such.
With us today we have José Mas our Chief Executive Officer and George Pita our Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by José followed by a financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a question-and-answer period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
I will now turn the call over to José.
José? Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2015 First Quarter Call.
Today I will be reviewing our first quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets that we serve.
Before we get started as Marc mentioned we are limited in what can be said about the current Audit Committee investigation.
While we understand and certainly share investors' frustration about when this issue will be brought to closure it is important to note that proper corporate governance requires that a complete investigation be conducted and it is not unusual for these investigations to take longer than investors or management would like.
We hope investors take comfort in the fact that we are reporting first quarter information in a detailed manner including segment performance.
Management has reviewed first quarter results in detail and believes that results released today properly reflect the results for the quarter as presented.
We will unfortunately not be able to provide any more information on this call on this issue.
As it relates to the first quarter we expected a challenging quarter.
The drop of commodity prices in the second half of 2014 the devaluation of the Canadian dollar and softness in wireless spending created headwinds entering 2015.
These issues coupled with adverse weather late project starts in oil and gas and a struggling wind farm project in Canada resulted in a very disappointing first quarter.
We've adjusted full year guidance for the impact of our first quarter results and some expected continued headwinds primarily related to revenue in our Wireless and Transmission segments and its associated margins.
Despite that we expect EBITDA margins for the company to improve in 2015 versus 2014.
While we would have hoped for a better 2015 the outlook for our business in 2016 and beyond is excellent.
We are very well-positioned to take advantage of the increasing opportunities our markets and segments afford us.
For example in our Installation and Fulfillment business we recently began providing a revolutionary service that we think will help change the way wireless phones are procured.
Through the use of mobile experts MasTec employees deliver set up and transfer data on a customer's new or upgraded device.
We launched this service this quarter; and while we're not at liberty to disclose the customer yet we look forward to updating the market in the future of this developing opportunity.
We're also excited about the developing and growing opportunities related to 1 gigabit fiber.
An increasing number of carriers are actively building or planning to build and increasing data speeds is becoming the key objective and norm for carriers.
In the wireless market during a recent earnings announcement one CEO of a major carrier spoke of and I quote "massively densifying" their network.
We expect wireless spending and activity to increase as we approach 2016.
On yesterday's release we announced record oil and gas backlog.
We also said we expected backlog to more than double in the coming quarters.
We've been very bullish about expected levels of activity in 2016 and beyond and we are now seeing those opportunities materialize.
Now I would like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communications revenue for the quarter was $469 million versus $447 million in last year's first quarter.
The growth was driven by increases in both our fulfillment and wireline business offset by a decline in our wireless revenues.
Margins in our Communications segment were up over 300 basis points both sequentially and year-over-year.
We expect continued improved margins on a year-over-year basis especially during the second half of the year when we compare it against last year's significant disruptions.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was up 9% in the first quarter of 2015 versus 2014.
Our revenues with DIRECTV were up slightly year-over-year and our diversification efforts into security have helped lead to both geographic and revenue growth.
As we have previously stated we believe we're the largest third-party independent fulfillment company in the United States with broad geographic coverage.
We are excited about a number of different opportunities with multiple customers who are looking for nationwide fulfillment services.
As it relates to wireline projects we are very bullish on the growth of 1 gigabit opportunities.
We are actively engaged in a number of projects and expect revenues related to this initiative to accelerate through the balance of 2015 and into 2016.
Our wireless business as expected was down year-over-year.
However we are in a very different position going into 2015 than what we faced in 2014.
As you may recall we entered 2014 expecting significant wireless growth with the award of a contract in late 2013.
We aggressively ramped our resources and the revenues didn't materialize.
We struggled from a margin perspective in this business in 2014 due to having to adjust resources during the year.
We started 2015 without these margin pressures and our results demonstrate that.
We believe that our geographic capabilities offer us great opportunities for future growth.
And while the growth hasn't materialized as quickly as we would've hoped we are very encouraged about our future prospects.
Revenue on our Electrical Transmission business was $115 million versus $80 million in last year's first quarter.
While we had solid revenue growth we struggled in the first quarter.
A number of our projects were negatively impacted by weather and we had some project closeout costs as well.
We are today much more geographically diverse in this segment.
While we believe that's important for us to grow long term smaller more-spread-out projects are affecting our margins as we build to scale in different markets.
Many of these customers that we are currently growing with will be awarding much larger projects and our presence on their systems is important.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue was $80 million for the first quarter versus $54 million in last year's first quarter.
While revenue growth was good we had one project where we took a significant loss reserve.
This project located on the north shores of Lake Superior in Canada has been very challenging for MasTec.
It was our first wind project in Canada.
Excluding that project our Power Generation Group would have had its best quarter in a long time.
While we're disappointed with the results we are encouraged that the business is and will continue to improve in 2015.
Our Oil and Gas Pipeline segment had revenues of $328 million for the first quarter compared to revenues of $380 million in last year's first quarter.
In the first quarter of 2014 we were completing a very large pipeline project that accounted for a significant amount of last year's first quarter oil and gas revenue.
Lower utilization levels in the first quarter led to lower EBITDA margins in this year's first quarter compared to last year.
We expect margins to improve in the second quarter and approach or surpass 2014 levels for the balance of the year.
As we look ahead for the balance of 2015 we are expecting a challenging environment in Canada and expect revenues in Canada to be down about 20% year-over-year.
In the U.S.
we expect revenues to be down slightly but the outlook for 2016 and beyond is excellent.
As I stated earlier despite having record oil and gas backlog this quarter we are expecting backlog to more than double in this segment over the next few quarters.
This is based on significant levels of activities with customers on projects that are expected to start in early 2016.
In addition we are beginning to see the fruits of our efforts relative to the opportunities in Mexico.
On our last call we announced the award of two large U.S.
pipelines being built by CFE the Federal Electricity Commission as a member of the consortium with energy transfer partners and Carlos Slim's Grupo Carso.
The consortium signed both of these contracts during the first quarter.
MasTec plays two significant roles on these projects.
As a contractor MasTec will participate in the building of approximately 337 miles of 42-inch pipe.
As a member of the consortium MasTec will hold an equity interest in these projects for their useful life.
The value of these projects are not included in our backlog.
Construction will begin in either late 2015 or early 2016 and must be in service by 2017.
To recap we had a tough quarter.
The bright spot was our Communications segment where we saw strong margin performance across the group despite weaker wireless revenues.
As wireless opportunities improve along with the continued growth of 1 gigabit we know this segment provides good long-term organic growth opportunities.
Our Oil and Gas business had a slow start as weather and project delays impacted margins.
Utilization levels have improved.
We've got solid backlog and great prospects.
We expect significant improvements in this segment.
Finally we expect Power Generation and Transmission to return to profitability in the second quarter.
I know that there's a lot of noise surrounding MasTec today between an investigation and first quarter results that were below expectations.
I take responsibility for that and I share in your frustration.
But I've also been doing this a long time and I feel have a good sense of the market.
Despite our challenges and the noise that surrounds us we have some excellent opportunities in front of us.
The men and women of MasTec are delivering for their customers and our customers are rewarding us with more opportunities to grow our business.
I'm very excited about our future and I truly believe we have never had the prospects in front of us that we have today.
I'll now turn the call over to George for our financial review.
George? Thanks José.
And good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover first quarter preliminary financial results second quarter and full year 2015 guidance along with our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we are discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
And as Marc already mentioned reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in our press release or on our website.
As indicated in our press release continuing operations' adjusted results exclude the impact of acquisition integration costs related to the WesTower acquisition.
We incurred approximately $8.8 million of these costs during the first quarter as we made substantial progress in the integration of this business into our existing wireless operations.
We anticipate we will substantially complete this integration by late second quarter or early third quarter of this year and we estimate we will incur an additional $6 million to complete the integration with these costs primarily composed of lease and equipment exit costs employee separation and other one-time training efforts to implement our systems and processes.
We are also excluding Audit Committee investigation-related costs which totaled approximately $3 million during the quarter.
Finally we are excluding $5.5 million of a project loss related to our minority interest in a Canadian joint venture which is constructing a bridge in Western Canada.
That joint venture which is managed by a third party and automatically terminates after completion of the project recorded a project loss primarily associated with significant delays in the delivery of key material from a manufacturer for the construction of the bridge.
We have had no substantive direct work involvement in the project which we acquired as part of the Pacer acquisition as Pacer's work pile driving and foundation work was substantially completed before our acquisition.
Thus as this project loss doesn't relate to any current MasTec operations we have excluded it from our adjusted results.
Before I get into detailed remarks here are some comments on the quarter.
Overall first quarter results were below expectations and include approximately $16 million of a project loss related to a difficult Canadian wind farm project that we expect to complete in the fall of 2015.
While we also had some challenges in other areas during the quarter absent that loss Q1 results would have been within our overall expectations.
Our cash flow from operations during the first quarter of 2015 was very strong at $117 million a $138 million improvement over last year's results.
We continue to expect that cash flow from operations for the full year 2015 will be strong and we will exceed 2014 levels.
Because of a strong cash flow from operations we were able to repurchase over $90 million in MasTec shares during the quarter with no substantive change in our overall debt levels.
We fully completed our $100 million stock repurchase plan in early April and repurchased a total of 5.2 million shares at an average purchase price of $19.17 per share.
Now let me go into more detail regarding preliminary first quarter results.
First-quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.07 per share versus our guidance of $0.16 to $0.19 per share.
And as I have mentioned previously during the quarter we recorded a project loss for Canadian wind farm project and this impacted our results by approximately $0.12 per share.
So thus while we have some other challenges during the quarter this project loss clearly impacted our results and our performance versus our initial expectations.
2015 revenue was $1 billion up approximately $38 million or 4% from last year.
First quarter 2015 Communications segment revenue grew 5% versus last year and this was comprised of increased levels of wireline fiber and installed-to-home services partially offset by decreased levels of wireless project activity.
A bright spot during the quarter was the strong improvement in Communications segment continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margins which improved both sequentially and over last year by over 300 basis points to 12.8% of revenue.
This margin improvement was driven primarily by our wireless projects which despite lower revenue levels improved over 2014 as a result of actions taken during the second half of 2014 to right size operations and the non-recurrence of start-up costs incurred last year related to tower crew initiatives.
First quarter 2015 Oil and Gas segment revenue declined 14% versus last year as during first half of last year we were in the midst of a long-haul pipeline project with no replacement project in this year's first quarter.
We also experienced some project start-up slippage with starts moving to Q2 201 due to weather and other factors which impacted our profitability.
As José mentioned and as evidenced by our record backlog level in this segment we continue to see significant opportunities in our Oil and Gas segment as we move towards 2016.
First quarter 2015 Electrical Transmission segment revenue grew 43% over last year as we continued progress on a major transmission line project and completed another major transmission line project.
We were challenged by margin pressure in this segment due to project inefficiencies primarily related to weather impacts and some unanticipated project closeout costs.
And lastly while first quarter 2015 Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue grew 55% this segment suffered a $16 million loss on a troubled wind project in Canada which significantly impacted the segment's profitability.
Our top 10 largest customers for the first quarter of 2015 as a percentage of revenue were: AT&amp;T at 19%; DIRECTV at 13%; Berkshire Hathaway Energy Energy Transfer Company and Duke Energy were all 5%; Sprint was 3%; and TransCanada Starwood Energy Plains All American Pipeline and Fluor Canada were each at 2%.
Individual construction projects comprised 48% of our first quarter revenue with master service agreements comprising 52% and this mix is generally in line with recent trends.
As far as major customer trends are concerned overall AT&amp;T revenue levels during Q1 2015 decreased generally as expected when compared to last year primarily due to lower wireless project activity in 2015.
Also noteworthy is the addition of Sprint as a top 10 customer and this is due to the combination of our existing wireless and WesTower operations.
At quarter end our 18-month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.2 billion compared to approximately $4.2 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and $4.3 billion at year end.
Backlog growth occurred in our Oil and Gas segment which increased 12% sequentially and by over $90 million to a record level of $870 million.
As José mentioned earlier we continue to expect significant oil and gas project opportunities to materialize during 2015 and expect to see continued overall growth in oil and gas backlog during the balance of 2015.
Regarding first quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA performance continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $63 million compared with $75 million last year.
On a rate basis first quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin was 6.3% compared to 7.8% in the first quarter of last year.
Regarding other areas of the income statement below the EBITDA line first quarter 2015 depreciation and amortization expense was in line with our expectation at 4.2% of revenue compared to 3.5% last year.
And this reflects the impact of the Pacer and WesTower acquisitions completed during 2014.
First quarter 2015 GAAP general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was 7.4% compared to 5.5% last year.
First quarter GAAP general and administrative expenses include approximately $9 million of acquisition integration costs related to WesTower as well as $3 million related to the current Audit Committee investigation.
Interest expense during the first quarter of 2015 was $11 million compared to $12 million last year.
Even though we have higher borrowings compared to a year ago due to the capital deployed for 2014 acquisitions and 2015 stock repurchases interest expense levels were lower as we have reduced our effective borrowing cost with the retirement of all our convertible notes.
And finally first quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted earnings per share were $0.7 per share compared to $0.21 per share last year and continuing operations diluted loss per share was $0.8 per share compared to continuing operations earnings per share of $0.19 last year.
Now let me talk about cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
We generated $117 million in first quarter 2015 cash flow from operations a $138 million improvement when compared to $20 million of cash used in operations last year.
Strong cash flow from operations came from the seasonality of operations and working capital initiatives.
As I mentioned earlier because of this strong cash flow we were able to purchase over $90 million in MasTec shares during the quarter without any meaningful increase in our overall debt levels.
Our first quarter 2015 accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs were 90 days compared to 87 days at year end a three-day increase.
As we have previously indicated DSOs can bounce around some based on the timing of project closeouts and retention payments and the addition of WesTower operations which were at higher DSO levels than MasTec operations has also impacted our first quarter DSOs.
We typically expect our DSOs to range somewhere in the 80s as we continue to make progress in normalizing WesTower DSOs.
Regarding our spending on capital equipment first quarter 2015 cash CapEx net of disposals was approximately $18 million.
We added approximately $13 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $31 million.
We anticipate that 2015 cash CapEx levels net of disposals will approximate $80 million with an additional $80 million to $90 million in capital lease and equipment financing for a total CapEx net of disposals of $160 million to $170 million.
Liquidity at March 31 calculated as cash plus availability in our senior revolving credit facility was $572 million.
Our overall net debt level at quarter end was approximately $1.1 billion essentially flat when compared to our year-end level and reflecting the 2014 acquisitions of Pacer and WesTower as well as capital invested in our 2015 stock repurchase program.
As previously disclosed in April we successfully completed a Consent Solicitation with holders of our senior notes extending certain reporting requirements until August 1.
We also received consent from our bank group under our senior secured credit facility to extend the deadline for financial reporting requirements to June 1.
Should any extension of this date be required in connection with the Audit Committee investigation we fully expect the continued support of our bank group.
Moving on to 2015 full year guidance we are projecting annual revenue of approximately $4.4 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of approximately $425 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.45.
This guidance level includes the impact of our Q1 results as well as the negative impact of approximately $0.05 per continuing operation diluted share of a higher expected 2015 income tax rate which currently is estimated at approximately 41% versus our previous estimate of 39%.
And this increase is due to lower expected levels of 2015 Canadian income.
Our estimate for the full year share count per diluted earnings per share is about 81 million shares and 80 million shares for the second quarter and these estimates reflect the repurchase of over five million shares during the first part of 2015.
We expect to end 2015 with approximately 80 million shares outstanding.
We currently estimate that Q2 revenue will approximate $1 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA in the range of $94 million to $99 million and continuing operations adjusted earnings in the range of $0.27 to $0.30 per share.
If you do the math you will note that our guidance assumes that second half 2015 revenue levels will decrease in the mid-single-digit range compared to last year and this is primarily due to lower expected levels of Canadian Oil and Gas revenues resulting from the combination of expected lower levels of demand for services and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes.
Our guidance also assumes improved EBITDA margin performance in the second half of 2015 compared to last year and this is primarily due to improved Communications segment margins as we complete the WesTower integration and annualize against the severe disruptions that occurred last year in our wireless operations.
In summary we had a challenging first quarter but we expect to see improved profit margin performance in the second half of 2015 and remain excited about our revenue and profit margin growth prospects in 2016 and beyond.
And that concludes my remarks and now I'll turn it back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Thank you.
And we'll go first to Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning Noelle.
Good morning Noelle.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I was hoping that just to start off with a pretty broad question but maybe you could walk us through how you're thinking about 2016 at this point and discuss where you're incrementally more optimistic on the outlook relative to say three months ago and where you're a little bit more cautious.
Well I think we've been optimistic about 2016 for a while.
No question that when we think about the oil and gas business we think 2016 is going to be an absolutely fantastic year.
And going forward as well I think 2016 2017 and 2018 are all shaping up to be really really good years and that's a lot of visibility to be able to say that where we stand today.
While we felt great about 2016 three months ago we're finally seeing it start to take shape.
So we feel a lot better.
Our confidence level is much higher today for 2016 than it's been.
And I only say that because we're seeing contracts materialize and projects materialize and we've got a good feeling of when jobs are going to start.
So there's no question that in that business we expect significant growth in 2016 versus where we'll be in 2015 and quite frankly where we've been in the past.
You take into account the opportunities that we have in our fulfillment business in our wireline business relative to gigabit opportunities some of the opportunities that we're seeing in transmission that we think are going to play out later this year it's shaping up to be a really really good year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just touching on the expected doubling or more of backlog in oil and gas can you talk about if more of these projects that you're seeing are coming from Mexico or if it's still a lot of U.S.
opportunity? And then would you be looking at most of these projects moving forward in 2016 or do you think some of them could be 2016 and 2017 projects? A couple things.
One we said on the call today that the Mexico projects that we won during the first quarter which was through the consortium and those are not in backlog.
So while those are Mexican projects are actually in the U.S.
but that will obviously add a significant amount of backlog as we look forward.
In addition to that we expect significant awards in the U.S.
and also hopefully in Mexico that will further add to that backlog.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then final question.
In terms of the installed-to-the-home business I think there's been a fair amount of investor concern around some of the cost synergies that AT&amp;T had talked about with the DIRECTV business.
Can you just talk about how you see that playing out and impacting MasTec over the next couple of years? Sure.
I think at the end of the day AT&amp;T is paying a lot of money for DIRECTV.
I think they've got very solid plans on how to grow the business which I think is going to create opportunities for us.
So where we stand today we're really excited about the opportunity and think we've got some opportunities to potentially grow that business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you Noelle.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning José and team.
Good morning.
Good morning Tahira.
Inc.</span></strong> José clearly it seems like – well hopefully it seems like your backlog opportunities are now ticking up.
Potentially you're seeing a trough on the Communications spending side.
So on the revenue side and in terms of the backlog everything seems to be anniversarying and probably positively inflecting into the second half.
I guess my concern is around execution and confidence around you're taking on work from perhaps new clients going into new regions.
Given the learning curve or the learning lessons we've had there over the last couple of quarters is there anything on the execution and operations side that you've changed perhaps in terms of how your management is incentivized or anything operationally or structurally that's different? So my first reaction to your question Tahira is I think we understand the issue.
We understand the concern.
We accept it.
We have struggled over the course of the last year with multiple issues.
I think some of the issues have been within our control but quite frankly I think a lot of the issues have been outside of our control.
Maybe we've misread some things.
I think in the wireless business we've obviously been bit a few times in terms of declining revenues.
With that said I think we have now demonstrated operationally that we're able to manage at those levels.
And I think that we've demonstrated that with the margins that we were able to deliver in Communications this quarter.
I think those margins will continue at those levels if not even slightly improve from here through the balance of the year.
So when we get a good feel for what we've got I think we can manage well to it.
If you look at our Oil and Gas business which obviously from a margin perspective didn't perform particularly well in the first quarter a lot of that was due to utilization levels.
For example just to give one example our biggest division in that group went from about $165 million in revenue in last year's first quarter to $58 million in this year's first quarter.
And a lot of that had to do with projects that we were hoping that would start in Q1 and they kind of got pushed out into Q2.
We're expecting that same unit to almost triple in revenues in the second quarter.
So when we have the work we think we're managing it well.
Obviously we had our issues in Transmission and Power Gen.
I think they're very specific.
I think we're dealing with them.
So for lots of reasons we're looking forward to 2016 because I think that the opportunities for revenue growth are going to be there.
And I think we've demonstrated in the past that when those opportunities are there we're able to execute to them and deliver.
And again I understand the market's frustration and I understand the questions because we haven't over the last year.
But I feel a lot today like I did a couple years ago where things were about to break.
So I'm excited and looking forward to moving forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Again José on the wireless side it seems you can't comment much on what you're doing in terms of with this customer in regards to new technologies.
But any more color you can provide on what you're doing? I know there are a lot of fluid new technologies coming out on the wireless side.
Would love to get a sense how you are leveraged to that.
Look I think today on the wireless side of the business I think we've become a very well-known commodity.
I think our size and scale is unmatched in the industry.
I think that's very important to carriers.
I think we're going to see that play out over the coming year in terms of opportunities that we get with different customers.
When we made the WesTower acquisition last year we talked about it being a diversification play a geographic diversification play and we hope that the customer diversification would follow.
We think we're making really good inroads relative to that.
And I think as time plays out we're going to see not only nice revenue growth from that business but really saw a diversification which we think's important.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you José.
Thank you Tahira.
We'll go next to Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dan.
First question on Oil and Gas.
Obviously you have a strong backlog on the quarter and you have a pretty positive outlook there.
Can you talk about any meaningful wins either in the first quarter or subsequent and I'm kind of pointing at Lone Star here and the others.
And to the extent that and the TexMex's drops aren't in your backlog as of quarter-end is that partially maybe giving you some of the confidence as it relates to the balance of the year? Well we generally don't talk about any project in particular.
Obviously we've talked about these TexMex projects more because they were public.
I can tell you that a lot of what we expect to come isn't really being talked about relative to MasTec so I think it's really new projects that people haven't been focused on.
And just to be clear the two projects that we won that are in the U.S.
relative to Mexico are not in backlog.
The construction activity for those are not yet in backlog and over the next quarter or two they'll be in backlog.
Those projects are expected to start in either really early 2016 or potentially could start in late 2015.
Understood.
And then secondarily can you help me a little bit more with the view for the back three quarters of 2015? Obviously you've been pretty clear on what happened in the first quarter and especially with the wind drop but you did take a bit of a hack to the balance of the year.
Can you maybe break that up? I mean we're looking at about a $27 million reduction of EBITDA.
I don't know if you can maybe point to where that would be and whether it's electric or wireless if you can help us out a little bit there.
Sure.
So I think in the wireless business when we look at the revenue guidance that we've now given for 2015 we've moderated our view on wireless.
I think the second quarter was a very difficult comp for us.
It was a very very busy quarter last year.
I think it was the height of wireless spend that we saw in the industry.
It was after Q2 that the market really took a hit and it dropped significantly in Q3 and Q4 of last year.
So I think the second quarter is a tough comp for us.
I don't think we're going to see the same level of increases in Q2 that we saw last year so we're expecting a down year-over-year comparison in Q2.
I think from that point on it begins to normalize a little bit.
I think from an oil and gas perspective it all depends on what starts in the fourth quarter and I think we've taken a very moderate view relative to that.
So I think those are the big drivers.
Transmission we probably reduced our expectations just slightly although we expect 15% 20% growth over last year.
So that business is still growing but probably moderated our views just a little bit.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Dan.
We'll go next to Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I was curious maybe to get some color on your fiber comments.
I know it's a little bit tough to talk about but as you go throughout this year and next year I mean are we seeing more I guess cities and more infrastructure being built within the ones that we've heard announced or are you expecting even some more cities to be brought out as that expands? I think we're really excited about the fact that everybody's talking about it.
I mean anybody that's involved in that industry is deploying 1 gigabit.
There's a lot of people that generally wouldn't be talking about it talking about it.
So I think it's just a very active market.
I think it's becoming the norm for everyone.
So we're seeing a very broad-based push towards gigabit services and fiber services.
And I think it's great for the industry.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if I could on obviously the buyback and completing that as we go through the year and expecting to generate some pretty good cash flows is there an idea to put something else on under that? Would it be to look at paying down some debt or just kind of the thoughts there? The challenge for us today is that we are without having filed our annual results from last year we're kind of in a closed window right now.
So as the company or as management we're really not allowed to do anything.
We bought $100 million of shares at roughly $19 and change.
We thought that was great value.
We can continue to think that's great value.
And if it was up to me we'd do a lot more of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So let's wait for the next one.
Sounds great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad on the line for Vishal.
Just wanted to get back to your comment about the oil backlog doubling.
Can you talk about the composition of the projects whether you're expecting a number of smaller projects versus larger projects oil versus gas and does that include any M&amp;A? I'll start with the last question first.
It does not include M&amp;A.
It's a combination of both oil and gas projects.
It's going to be driven by larger projects although there will be a bunch of smaller projects as well.
And again we're very confident in our ability to say that.
So we expect a more than doubling which is going to be very broad-based.
So large projects some smaller projects geographic mix customer mix.
It's a very very active market that we're currently in.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just on oil and gas still can you just talk about the bidding environment? I mean are you seeing any increased pricing pressure from competition? Are you seeing any cost reduction request from customers? Any color on that will be helpful.
I think that the people that are involved in these projects the customers that are involved in these projects understand the amount of work that's coming which I think is unprecedented and they're trying to lock up resources.
They're being fair on contract terms.
They want to get their projects built on time within their budgets.
So I think we're seeing very fair pricing in the market as we would have expected six months ago or a year ago as we knew these opportunities were coming.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just one lastly.
So would you expect the margin in that backlog are you expecting it to be higher than where you are right now? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> That's it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Bill.
I just want to touch base a little bit on Mexico the broader picture there longer term.
The government recently announced bidding for some oil and gas rights to some land application in areas down there.
I know that's way before you guys come in but can you give us a sense of how you're looking at that market specifically in Mexico? I know right now the projects that you do have are U.S.
based the leading rights at almost the border.
But give us a sense of what you're seeing longer term there.
And I'm sure that it's not just on the oil and gas side but it looks as though that many of your segments are quite needed there and have done some work down there in the past.
I think we're at the beginning of what's going to be an unbelievable run in Mexico.
You currently have a number of pipeline projects that are either bidding or going to be bid.
So there's probably over a dozen projects of very large scale that are going to be built in Mexico some through Pemex some through CFE.
We hope to participate.
We hope to win.
We think we're going to have a very successful Mexican operation that's building pipelines in Mexico.
I think those projects will take that business for the next couple of years for sure all of the projects that are currently announced.
I think beyond that you've got Mexico importing a lot of gas from the U.S.
They have massive needs for expanding their pipeline network.
You've got the potential for them drilling some of their own resources.
So I think we're at the beginning of a very very long-term significant build-out plan.
I think it ties into what they're going to do with transmission.
So I think from the electric and energy side it's a fantastic market.
You've got very large players starting to pay attention.
We've had a lot of our U.S.
customers now starting to – their interest has peaked.
We've had a lot of new entrants into the Mexican market.
We think it's going to be a fantastic market for a long time.
In addition to all that you obviously have the wireless opportunities.
AT&amp;T closed on their acquisitions in Mexico.
There's going to be a significant ramp-up in wireless spend we believe in Mexico as well.
So the Mexican market in general is just a market of great potential for MasTec and one that we hope we're going to deliver on over the coming quarters and years.
Okay José.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
José I just wanted to follow up on some end market exposure.
In the Oil and Gas segment how much of your work in the quarter on a go-forward basis is upstream versus traditional midstream or interstate pipeline work now? I'd still say the majority of our work is related to midstream.
Okay.
(46:28) But when you talk about the lower commodity price I mean that's affecting the gathering side of it? Is that what you were trying to say? Well we don't really – I mean the commodity prices are affecting two areas of our business in a more meaningful way.
One is the gathering.
But quite frankly we're not that big there so it's not that big of an impact.
Right.
But two I think commodity pricing is affecting Canada much more than it's affected the U.S.
I think it will subside.
I think there's a lot of projects on the board for Canada.
I think a lot of the big customers in Canada a lot of their revenues and financials are associated with the price of oil.
So unfortunately they've been hit harder financially.
They've cut their CapEx more aggressively than some of our other customers.
So I think we've just seen more of an impact there.
I think that again will normalize and we'll see a lot more activity in 2016 from the U.S.
side when we think about especially the southern shales with what's happening on the natural gas side it's extremely busy.
And we don't see that subsiding anytime soon.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up on the Communications side can you give us a breakdown of how much of the business now is in-home wireline versus wireless? When you say in-home wireline what do you mean by that? Oh sorry in-home wireline and wireless I mean between those three end markets? So I'd say on a full year basis our wireless business is half of our Communications revenue more or less.
Yeah.
About 30% to 35% would be the installed-to-the-home and the balance would be wireline.
Okay.
About 30%.
Okay.
30% on the wireline George? Yeah roughly.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
All right.
We'll go next to Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Adam.
José where are we right now in terms of demand from AT&amp;T? It just seems like they're kind of spending at unsustainably low levels and I'm curious.
There are some people who think maybe that gets better once they close their DIRECTV deal.
Do you have any thoughts on that? What we can control is how we manage the business so the work that we have and I think we've done a good job with that.
So relative to where we are as a business we're managing to the levels that we see.
When we look at the industry in its whole we think there's going to be a significant increase and an uptick in wireless spending for lots of reasons.
Some of it is driven by some of our existing customers and some of it is driven by new customers.
So while we've had to manage through some declining revenue trends here over the course of last year we do think that turns and we hope it turns in a big way.
And we think we're going to be well positioned for it when it does.
Okay.
And then I wanted to make sure I have this straight.
I think you said that in the back half of the year margins in Communications up slightly from Q1 and margins in Oil and Gas are in the back half going to be at the levels of full year 2014.
Did I hear all that right? I think in the back half of the year Oil and Gas margins are going to be close to where they were in the back half of last year which is slightly better than our full year basis.
Got it.
And then how about Communications? Communications should be up from where we are today in the first quarter.
So they'll be significantly higher than they were in 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to just dig in to the wind project a little bit more José and just get your sense on where that one is.
It doesn't sound like it's completed yet.
But could you give us some color on maybe the percent complete that it is and what items if any that you've changed operationally to get that one back on track? Yeah.
So a couple things.
What we did on that project during the quarter we realized that the project was going to end up in a loss position.
When you have a project that you believe is going to end up in a loss position you have to take a loss reserve for the balance of the project which is what we did.
A lot of the loss that we've taken on that project is prospective in nature; it hasn't all happened yet.
We've got a significant ways to go.
As George said we're going to finish that project in the fall.
We've probably got roughly 40% of that project to complete.
There's been lot of issues on that project.
We've had some local partners that really didn't pan out a lot.
There was a large local content required on that project.
There's been significant weather issues based on where it was located.
We've had a lot of our own issues.
So at the end of the day it's a very troubling project.
We decided to highlight the project because it's meaningful enough that to really understand our results you kind of need to understand what made up the results.
So if you back that out our Power Gen Group's actually doing much better in improving.
No excuse for that project.
We're not happy about it so we've taken a lot of actions relative to that project in particular.
We've made significant management changes as well.
So we feel good about where it's headed.
We don't feel good about that project in particular.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Thanks for the color on that one.
And then just on the Mexico pipeline you said that you signed the contract in 1Q.
I'm just curious.
Why didn't they go in backlog? Is there a permit that it's waiting on or something else that we should be aware of that's holding you back from putting it in the numbers? What we were awarded was we were part of a consortium.
The consortium was made up of three partners.
We were awarded to basically build own and operate those pipelines for their useful life.
MasTec will be the contractor for those pipelines.
The contract will be between MasTec and the consortium and quite frankly we've been a lot more focused on getting the contract signed with the customer than we've been worried about getting the vendor contract signed in which we will be one of them.
So it just hasn't been high on our priority list.
We said on our last call that we didn't think it would make Q1 backlog.
It didn't.
We are already working to begin construction on that.
Whether it's late 2015 or early 2016 we're gearing up for it.
We have no doubt in our minds that we will be the contractor on that.
But we're not going to put into backlog until that contract's actually signed with the consortium.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll take a follow-up question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I just wanted to ask another question on the wind project.
This is your first wind project in Canada.
Are you anticipating pursuing more of these types of projects in Canada or was it more of a one-off event? Probably not.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then also just I think you cited a 20% decline in Canadian revenue this year.
Can you talk a little bit about how much of that headwind is coming from FX and then what you're expecting on an organic basis? I think you're comparing against the step year for Pacer in 2014.
So can you just give us a better sense of what you're looking at on an organic basis? Sure.
So I'd say that FX represents about half of that so currency exchange the balances is reduction in work.
If you annualize Pacer's revenue in 2014 it's obviously a much bigger drop.
So again our Canadian business has been hit probably harder than anything else that we've got but it's a tough year.
And a lot of it is customers that have put projects on hold based on their own economic circumstances.
So I think a lot of those projects are going to come back and I think some of them come back as early as 2016.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you Noelle.
And your last question comes from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Thanks.
José.
How are you today? Hey.
Good morning Alex.
How are you? Just one quick question.
Can you help us understand why you're not authorizing an additional buyback at this level with your stock trading at $17 $18 and this fairly upbeat outlook that you anticipate in the second half of the year and into 2016? Because we haven't filed our 10-K and thus we're in a closed period.
So until we file our annual we're not allowed to do another authorization for a stock buyback.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you Alex.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
We'll turn the conference back over to José for closing remarks.
Just want to thank everybody for participating today and we look forward to updating you as the year rolls on and hopefully we can talk a lot more about the opportunities as they materialize.
So thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on August 18 2015.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Eric.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to MasTec's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company will make no effort to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations and adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may make certain non-GAAP measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measure not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings release our SEC filings or in the Investors and News sections of our website located at mastec.com.
Also note the comparisons to 2014 comparable numbers are made to the restated quarterly numbers as filed in our 2014 10-K filed on July 31.
With us today we have José Mas our CEO; and George Pita our CFO.
The format of call will be opening remarks and analysis by José followed by a financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of important things to talk about today so let's go ahead.
José? Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2015 second quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our second quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
Before getting started I'd like to make some general comments around where the company stands today.
There is no question that we have had our challenges since early in 2014.
As a reminder in 2014 our business was dramatically impacted by two major factors: a slowdown in our Wireless business and decreasing oil prices which have had a negative impact on our Oil &amp; Gas segment.
In 2015 these issues coupled with the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar extraordinary weather with rain and flooding impacting us across multiple geographies and the Audit Committee investigation which required an enormous amount of time and effort from senior management as well as segment management have resulted in performance that was well below our expectations.
We are disappointed with our results and quite frankly I expect more from myself and I expect more from our team.
We recognize we have had multiple issues over the last few quarters however I am very confident that over the coming quarters you will begin to see the opportunities we have in front of us develop and we are confident in our ability to execute at a high level as we have demonstrated over a long period of time.
Now some second quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.067 billion EBITDA was $71 million earnings per share were $0.10 and cash flow from operations was $48 million.
Our results for the quarter were negatively impacted predominantly by our Electrical Transmission business.
Revenues in this segment were down $39 million year-over-year and EBITDA was a negative $21 million or a $41 million swing from last year's second quarter.
While our Oil &amp; Gas business was also impacted by adverse weather revenue was up 13% EBITDA was up 14% and margins were up slightly.
As we look beyond 2015 we believe the outlook is very strong.
We expect considerable revenue growth and associated margins primarily driven by a very active Oil &amp; Gas market where we expect record revenues a growing and robust fiber-to-the-home market driven by gigabit deployment and an improving wireless market with multiple carriers spending increasing levels of CapEx.
Now I'd like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communications revenue for the quarter was $469 million versus $528 million last year.
The drop in revenues as expected came from our Wireless business.
Margins in this segment were also impacted by weather and we expect margins to improve for the back half of 2015 versus the second quarter and approximate first half levels.
Our current expectations are that Communications margins will be a little lower for the year than we expected due to lower revenue levels in our Wireless business.
We still however expect to see over 100 basis point improvement in margins from last year's levels in Communications this despite an almost 35% expected organic decline in our Wireless business.
As volume returns in Wireless we are in a good position to leverage our resources and geographic presence which we think will have a very positive effect on overall Communication margins in 2016.
In our install-to-the-home market as has been expected AT&amp;T recently closed on the acquisition of DIRECTV.
We look forward to working with our customer to maximize the value of the acquisition and we feel we have good opportunities to maintain or grow our business.
We are beginning to see increased activity again relative to the AT&amp;T Digital Life product and as we announced last quarter we are providing expert for Sprint's Direct 2 You initiative which continues to ramp to new cities across the country weekly.
Wireline revenues for the quarter were up over 20% year-over-year and we continue to see strong demand in everything from electric distribution to fiber rollout and expansion.
We expect gigabit revenues will continue to ramp and expect considerable growth as we begin to ramp construction activity based on current backlog.
Our Wireless business as expected was down year-over-year.
However as we have previously said we were in a very different position going into 2015 than what we faced in 2014.
As you may recall we entered 2014 expecting significant Wireless growth with the award of a contract in late 2013.
We aggressively ramped our resources and the revenues didn't materialize.
We struggled from a margin perspective in this business in 2014 due to having to adjust resources during the year.
We started 2015 rightsizing this business and margins are significantly better for the first half of 2015 compared to 2014 and we expect margins in the second half of 2015 to outpace last year's margins as well.
Margins improved despite roughly a 40% negative organic growth in the quarter and revenue softness from our primary customers.
For example one customer where volume had been growing nicely has slowed its rollout while they determine their optimum architecture.
As these decisions get finalized the industry and MasTec should see an uptick in activity.
We expect increased levels of Wireless spend in 2016 and combined with our scale and geographic presence we expect a return to solid revenue growth in 2016.
Revenue in our Electrical Transmission business was $78 million versus $117 million in last year's second quarter.
The Transmission group's performance in the second quarter was negatively impacted due to extreme weather conditions right-of-way access material escalation and estimates of future cost.
One large transmission project required demobing and remobing after several weeks due to the right-of-way being completely flooded.
Foundations and equipment were under water.
This project substantially finishes in late September.
Another large project had weather impacts causing revenue and margin fade due to the effect of increased material and labor to deal with construction weather-related challenges.
Future project estimated costs were taken into account for these potential construction conditions.
While neither of these projects will finish in the last position we significantly increased the cost to complete for both which caused a large loss for the quarter.
This segment was also greatly impacted by the Audit Committee investigation requiring an enormous time of energy throughout the entire organization from senior management to project staff.
While we expect their performance to improve our guidance assumes a roughly breakeven EBITDA performance for the balance of the year.
We are seeing a very competitive environment with a number of jobs being pushed out into 2016.
Despite this bidding activity is robust and we believe the business will get back to a normalized state.
Moving to our Power Generation &amp; Industrial segment revenue was $103 million for the second quarter versus $95 million in the prior year.
EBITDA margins improved to nearly 8% almost doubling last year's performance.
The bidding environment for 2016 is strong and we expect continued improved performance from this segment.
Our Oil &amp; Gas Pipeline segment had revenues of $411 million for the second quarter compared to revenues of $365 million in last year's second quarter.
EBITDA margin for this segment was 10.1% up from 6.6% sequentially.
For 2015 this segment is being negatively impacted by Canadian dollar decline a challenged Canadian CapEx environment and depressed commodity prices.
However the outlook for 2016 and beyond continues to improve.
During the second quarter MasTec closed on its joint venture with Grupo Carso and Energy Transfer.
Under these ventures our consortium will build own and operate 337 miles of 42-inch pipelines in the U.S.
providing transportation services for CFE the Mexican electric company.
Subsequent to quarter end MasTec signed a construction agreement with the consortium to build the pipeline.
That contract will be included in our backlog totals next quarter.
In addition MasTec has been awarded and is in final stages of contract negotiations on other U.S.
pipeline projects exceeding $1 billion in value which we expect to add to backlog over the balance of 2015 with the majority of that work to be completed in 2016.
We also remain very active as it relates to opportunities in Mexico.
We expect Mexico to offer us excellent opportunities related to pipeline construction in-country and expect to have active projects in 2016.
To recap 2015 is a challenging year for us.
We understand we've had significant issues over several quarters.
However I want to reiterate the confidence we have in our business.
We believe our growth in 2016 will be driven primarily by our Oil &amp; Gas wireline and wireless markets.
Again with current negotiation and bidding we expect our Oil &amp; Gas business to have a record year in 2016.
We expect continued growth of our gigabit business and the related opportunities and we expect demand for our Wireless business to grow in 2016 as carriers ramp CapEx levels.
I would now like to turn the call over to our CFO George Pita for our financial review.
Thank you José and good morning everyone.
Before I get started I'd like to thank our MasTec staff members as well as our external auditors BEO (12:16) and various other advisors observers that have been through a difficult time in the last six months.
As previously disclosed in our recent SEC filings the process established and observed by our Audit Committee included a detailed review of percentage of completion accounting at our Electrical Transmission segment as well as a detailed review of selected accounting judgments estimates and entries over a multi-year period across the balance of the company's segments in order to assess the reliability of our previously issued financial statements.
This has been an exhaustive time consuming and detailed process for our company as well as a huge distraction from the operations and management of our business particularly in our Electrical Transmission segment.
The integrity of our corporate governance and financial reporting continues to be of paramount importance to us and we are working to improve our control processes to correct the issues that gave rise to the previously reported interim 2014 adjustments.
While we are disappointed the interim adjustments were necessary we are pleased that as we initially indicated in February when our 2014 10-K filing was delayed completion of the process and external audit did not negatively or materially impact our previously disclosed unaudited annual 2014 results.
We are now current with all our reporting requirements.
While we have indicated that the Audit Committee investigation is ongoing with respect to underlying causes of the identified interim adjustments we expect this process will be much less disruptive to our operations and we look forward to refocusing and reenergizing our efforts to position ourselves to take advantage of the various growth opportunities we believe our markets afford us and improve our operating results on a go-forward basis.
Today I'll cover second quarter financial results and the headwinds experienced during the quarter third quarter and full year guidance updates along with our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
Full reconciliations from GAAP results to adjusted results are included in our Form 10-Q and press release tables.
Consistent with prior quarters continuing operations' adjusted results exclude acquisition integration costs related to the WesTower acquisition.
We incurred approximately $8 million of acquisition integration costs during the second quarter and the process is now substantially complete.
Just as a reminder these costs were primarily composed of lease and equipment exit costs employee duplication and separation and other one-time training efforts to implement our systems and processes.
We are also excluding Audit Committee investigation-related costs which totaled approximately $7.5 million during the second quarter for a cumulative total of $10.5 million on a year-to-date basis.
We expect to incur an additional $5 million during the balance of 2015 with the great majority of this cost expected in the third quarter.
Lastly in calculation of adjusted net income and fully diluted earnings per share we are excluding approximately $2.8 million in one-time income tax expense recorded during the second quarter to reflect the cumulative revaluation of deferred tax liabilities due to a tax law change in the Alberta Canada province that was enacted in June of 2015.
The aggregate impact of these charges reduced our GAAP fully diluted earnings by approximately $0.14 per share.
With the WesTower integration now substantially completed the substantial progress made to-date on the Audit Committee-related matters and the one-time nature of the Alberta tax law impact; we expect a significant decrease in the amount of these charges in future quarters.
Before I get into detailed remarks here are some headlines for the quarter.
Second quarter results were well below expectations.
While adverse weather impacted multiple segments the headline for the quarter was a significant shortfall in our Electrical Transmission segment.
Total company second quarter 2015 EBITDA was $37 million below last year's levels and in our Electrical Transmission segment individually we had a $41 million decrease from last year.
Despite the impact of adverse weather we had sequential improvement in adjusted EBITDA margin performance in our Oil &amp; Gas segment and in our Power Generation segment with Power Generation reporting its highest EBITDA margins in several years at 7.8% of revenue.
We continued strong cash flow from operations performance generating $48 million in the second quarter cash flow with year-to-date 2015 cash flow from operations of approximately $166 million compared to $55 million during the first half of 2014.
This represents a $111 million year-over-year improvement despite reduced first half 2015 GAAP earnings.
We also completed our previously announced $111 million share repurchase program during the second quarter and during 2015 have repurchased 5.2 million shares.
And as José previously indicated during the quarter we finalized our agreements to invest in two joint ventures that will design build own and operate pipelines that will transport natural gas in Texas to the Mexican border.
We expect construction to commence through a MasTec service line on these pipelines in either late 2015 or early 2016.
It should be noted that while we finalize the investment agreements in the joint ventures the construction contracts for our service line were not signed until the third quarter of 2015 and thus these projects are not in our second quarter 2015 backlog reported in yesterday's filing.
We invested approximately $6 million in the second quarter as initial equity contributions for these joint ventures and expect to invest approximately an additional $78 million in equity contributions for these joint ventures over the next 12 to 24 months.
In summary it was obviously a difficult quarter with results well below our original expectations.
As José mentioned we had extraordinary rain and flooding in major work areas in the entire second half of the quarter.
Remember our large Texas operations in pipeline as well as our install-to-the-home and fiber deployment operations were all impacted.
It is also important to note that while Texas flooding received most of the news coverage we had flooding as far north as Wisconsin and Indiana which impacted several of our Electrical Transmission projects as well.
Lastly the Audit Committee process caused significant disruption to our managements' focus on operations and marketing with the Electrical Transmission Group being the most affected.
Now let me cover some details regarding second quarter results.
Second quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings were $0.10 per share compared to $0.42 per share for the same period last year.
As I mentioned earlier we had a significant shortfall in earnings at our Electrical Transmissions segment which impacted our year-over-year results by approximately $0.34 per share.
Second quarter 2015 revenue was $1.067 billion a 3.7% decrease compared to the same period last year.
We had good top-line growth in our Oil &amp; Gas and Power Generation segments despite the impact of adverse weather with Oil &amp; Gas increasing by 12.5% and Power Generation increasing by 9%.
These top-line increases were offset by a 33% decrease in our Electrical Transmissions segment and an 11% decrease in our Communications segment.
The decrease in second quarter 2015 Communications segment revenue as previously indicated is primarily driven by reduced levels of wireless project activity.
While we expect demand for wireless services to markedly increase in 2016 we anticipate that second half 2015 Wireless segment revenues will approximate or slightly decline compared to first half 2015 levels.
As we indicated in our release a few weeks ago we expect the Electrical Transmissions segment results during the second half of 2015 will continue to show weakness when compared to the same period last year as the segment works to replenish its backlog and normalize its operations.
Our current guidance for 2015 anticipates that second half 2015 Electrical Transmissions segment revenues will approximate first half 2015 levels and that EBITDA levels will improve when compared to the first half of 2015 and approach a breakeven level.
Our top 10 customers for the second quarter of 2015 as a percentage of revenue were: AT&amp;T was 17% DIRECTV was 12%.
Momentum Midstream was 9%.
Berkshire Hathaway Energy Plains All American Pipeline Duke Energy and Wisconsin Energy were 3% each and Energy Transfer Sprint and CNRL were each at 2% of total revenue.
Individual construction projects comprised 55% of our second quarter revenue with master service agreements comprising 45% and this mix is generally in line with recent trends.
At quarter end our 18-month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.1 billion compared to $3.9 billion last year and $4.2 billion at the end of last quarter.
As mentioned earlier we have several large awards not in backlog yet and we expect significant growth in our Oil &amp; Gas backlog during the balance of 2015 as we look forward to a strong 2016 for this segment.
As we have said for a long time backlog numbers can be lumpy and bounce around some and we do not believe that 90-day swings in backlog are necessarily indicative of the longer-term trends in our overall business.
Please keep in mind that our backlog amounts can fluctuate just due to the timing of when contracts get signed.
We do not count contracts signed after quarter end in our reported backlog and we do not count verbal assurances.
Also please note that our backlog numbers are only for 18 months into the future.
It means that some significant and longer duration projects may not be fully reflected in backlog.
Lastly our longer-term master service agreement work is reflected in backlog only at its 18-month value even if the MSA contract runs beyond the 18-month period.
Second quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $71 million compared to $108 million last year.
On a rate basis second quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was 6.7% compared to 9.8% last year a 310 basis point decrease with 250 basis points of this decline due to losses at our Electrical Transmission segment.
Regarding other areas of the income statement second quarter 2015 depreciation and amortization expense was in line with our expectation at 4% of revenue compared to 3.3% last year and this reflects the impact of the Pacer and WesTower acquisitions completed during 2014.
Second quarter 2015 GAAP general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was 6.5% compared to 4.9% in the second quarter of 2014.
On a dollar basis second quarter 2015 GAAP general and administrative expense increased approximately $15 million over last year with virtually all of these increase due to WesTower integration costs and Audit Committee investigation related costs incurred during the quarter.
Interest expense during the second quarter of 2015 was flat compared to last year at $12.9 million and this level includes approximately $800 000 of cost incurred during the quarter for consent solicitation agent fees to extend financial reporting deadlines for our senior notes.
As I mentioned earlier we are now current with all our reporting requirements.
Second quarter 2015 GAAP provision for income taxes was $1.4 million and this includes $2.8 million of a provision recorded during the quarter to reflect the impact of a tax law change in Alberta Canada.
Excluding the impact of this item we expect our tax rate for fiscal 2015 to approximate 44.5% and our rate expectation for the 2015 year has increased due to lower levels of overall income as well as lower levels of foreign earnings which are typically taxed at lower statutory rates than U.S.
operations.
And finally second quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.10 compared to $0.42 last year and continuing operations diluted loss per share was $0.05 compared to continuing operations diluted income per share of $0.39 last year.
Now let me talk about cash flow liquidity and our capital structure.
On a year-to-date basis we have generated $166 million in cash flow from operations compared to $55 million last year a $111 million increase despite lower earnings levels.
Our second quarter 2015 accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs were 86 days compared to 92 days for the second quarter of 2014 a six-day decrease.
As we have previously indicated we expect the DSOs should normally range in the mid to high 80s.
We continue to anticipate strong full year 2015 cash flow from operations when compared against last year.
Regarding our spending on capital equipment second quarter 2015 cash CapEx net of disposals was $26 million.
We added approximately $14 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $40 million.
Year-to-date we have incurred $44 million of cash CapEx net of disposals and added $27 million in capital leases and other financed equipment purchases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $71 million.
We have moderated our planned CapEx spend in the second half of 2015 and now estimate that we will spend approximately $70 million in cash CapEx with an additional $40 million to $50 million in finance CapEx for a total CapEx of $110 million to $120 million for the year.
Liquidity at June 30 calculated as cash plus availability on our senior revolving credit facility was $473 million compared to $572 million at the end of the first quarter.
Despite lower levels of expected 2015 earnings our capital structure and liquidity are strong thus affording us the financial flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities.
That said we recognize that given lower expected 2015 earnings performance leverage levels will be slightly higher than historical levels.
We believe that leverage levels will significantly improve with the combination of improved 2016 earnings and continued strong cash flow from operations.
Moving on to our 2015 full year guidance we are now projecting annual revenue of $4.2 billion to $4.3 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of $325 million to $340 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.73 to $0.83.
Our 2015 full year guidance includes the impact of our first half results as well as the negative impact of approximately $0.05 per share from a higher than expected 2015 income tax rate which is now assumed at 44.5%.
Our estimate for the full year share count per diluted earnings per share is about 81 million shares and 80.5 million shares for Q3 and Q4 and these estimates reflect the repurchase of over 5 million shares during the first half of 2015.
We currently estimate third quarter 2015 revenue will range between $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion from continuing operations and continuing operations adjusted EBITDA will range between $100 million to $108 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share will range between $0.31 to $0.37 per share.
If you do the math you will note that our revenue guidance assumes that second half 2015 revenue levels will increase between 3% to 8% over first half 2015 levels and this is due to the expected seasonality of our business.
This guidance also assumes second half 2015 revenue will decrease in the mid double-digit range versus second half 2014 levels.
And this is due to lower expected levels of Canadian Oil &amp; Gas revenues which is the result of combined decreased demand and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes as well as expected revenue declines during the second half of 2015 versus last year in Electric Transmission and Wireless services.
Our guidance also assumes improved second half 2015 EBITDA when compared to first half results.
And this is expected due to the seasonality of our Oil &amp; Gas business as well as the non-recurrence of $16 million in first quarter 2015 Canadian wind farm project losses and improved Electrical Transmission segment results when compared to the first half performance.
In summary we've had a challenging first half start to 2015 particularly in Q2 but we believe that the 2016 outlook is strong and that we are well positioned to capitalize on various growth opportunities across the markets we serve in the U.S.
Canada and Mexico.
And that concludes my remarks and now I'll turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Matt Duncan with Stephens Investment.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> So José I want to start by talking about the issues in the Electrical segment.
So if I'm hearing you guys correctly it sounds like you're pretty confident that most of the issue there is really tied to the distraction from the accounting review.
So can you talk a little bit more in detail about sort of how your people were distracted what it did to your ability to win awards and how quickly do you think you can get that segment sort of back on track? Sure Matt.
There is no question in my mind that the entire segment was extremely involved in the investigation.
Numerous people from all over the organization had to play a significant role during the investigation which unquestionably took from their focus their time their attention to the business and I think it's reflected in the results of the business.
I think that's behind us.
There's no question that we've struggled on some jobs.
We're hoping that as everybody refocuses on the business things get better life resumes to normal jobs improve and our win and our success rate going forward gets a lot better.
We've got a lot of bids outstanding in that group right now.
We feel really good about a couple of them.
And it's hard to put into words the frustration that I know they felt and they did a great job in getting through it.
But no question it was an enormous amount of time effort and distraction for both them and the company as a whole.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then second question I'll hop back in the queue.
You sound extremely confident in the outlook for the business in 2016 on a number of fronts.
The stock has obviously gotten pretty significantly beat up here and I understand there's obviously going to be some constraints on the balance sheet.
But how are you guys thinking about the potential for repurchasing some stock here or are you guys personally stepping up and buying stock and sort of sending the message of how confident you are here in the business as we look out to next year? We've always said we're going to be very opportunistic as it relates to buying back stock.
Our position hasn't changed.
We obviously bought back a considerable amount of stock earlier this year.
It's definitely something that's on the table as is personal buying as well.
So I think we're very bullish on the future.
We're very bullish on what's going to happen.
We're very disappointed as to where we stand this year.
And I think over the coming months we'll demonstrate our confidence in the business going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning José and team.
Good morning Tahira.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> I'm doing well.
Thank you.
I guess first question is since your last call a couple of things have happened: number one DIRECTV and AT&amp;T have merged they have laid out a CapEx plan; number two you've seen several of your midstream – core midstream customers really come out with new adjusted CapEx plans and outlook.
As you look into next year and you've indicated strong outlook has there been any change on the margin and what the drivers are for next year? Well let's talk about margins for a second right.
I think that obviously our margins this year are below our expectations.
Again we're disappointed with the results that we're going to deliver in 2015.
Our business is really driven by utilization levels.
And unfortunately this year across a number of our businesses utilization has been really low.
Even our Oil &amp; Gas business that we think is performing okay right now is very underutilized relative to what their opportunity and their potential is from a revenue output.
I think that will take care of itself because I think the amount of demand in that industry for 2016-2017 and beyond is far beyond what we could have ever imagined a year ago.
We're very excited.
We think it's coming.
We think it'll be demonstrated by backlog growth in the near future.
And I don't think that's just a comment from us.
I think that's a comment for the industry.
I think that's going to be a fantastic industry for many years to come for lots of reasons.
When we look at our Wireless business obviously we've invested heavily there.
We think we've got the largest geographic presence.
We think we're in a great position to take advantage of that market as it comes back.
Bottom line is organic levels are down north of 40% for the second quarter.
We're having significant negative organic decline on a year-over-year basis.
And we think that's going to turn.
And the important part of that is even though we've had these massive organic declines margins are still holding.
They're better than they were last year.
They're nowhere near where we want them to be or think they can be.
But they're holding and as that business comes back and revenue ticks up we think it's going to have a significant impact on margins on a go-forward basis.
And we think that's a very important part of our story in 2016.
So again Oil &amp; Gas is going to drive the business just because of what we believe is going to be phenomenal revenue growth.
I think our Wireless business is going to come back strong with the associated margins.
Our Wireline business and everything associated with gigabit whether it's electric distribution fiber deployment that business is going to be fantastic for time to come.
I think on a year-over-year basis our comps in Electrical Transmission are going to be obviously very low.
And I think we'll get that business back on track.
Power Gen is very doing well.
So we're very excited about 2016 what it brings to us.
The AT&amp;T and DIRECTV merger is something that we think we've got a great opportunity to at a minimum maintain our business.
We think there's some solid growth opportunities that hopefully we'll be able to talk about as time goes on.
But we're excited.
It's unfortunate the year that we're having it's unfortunate the last 18 months that we've had as a business but I think it's about to turn and turn in a very positive way.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Then I guess follow up to that if I look back 2013 was a year when you had Oil &amp; Gas really hit on all cylinders.
And it seems you were excited you could potentially beat that.
At that point you had operating margins of 7%.
As I look into next year is there any reason why you couldn't reach those other than just execution and weather? We should absolutely reach that.
And I think revenues will far exceed 2013 levels.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you Tahira.
Our next question is from Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
(38:36) everyone.
Good morning.
Dan.
So I was wondering if you could help me a little bit.
Obviously you've spent a lot of time talking about the second quarter.
But when you look at your secondhalf guidance it looks like relative to the previous guidance there's maybe in the range of $60 million of lower EBITDA.
Now obviously the Electric business will be a piece of that.
But can you maybe walk us through what's changed in your secondhalf view relative to maybe the last time you gave guidance? Because I'm having a little bit of trouble bridging that.
Sure.
So I think if you take that $60 million and let's just use that as a number for now about half of that is the Electric Transmission business.
So the roughly $60 million goes to $30 million.
We expect probably a couple of hundred million lighter in activity than what we initially thought with a lot of that being in Wireless so there's an associated margin that goes with that that obviously takes off that as well.
And then I think we've got some – I think those two are the big buckets and then everything else is relatively small in comparison to the differences for the second half of the year.
Those are the two big drivers.
Got it.
And then the other thing I was going to ask on the Electric side given some of these challenges and I know you said you don't have any projects going to loss but certainly you've seen some margin fade.
Any thoughts on – Idon't want to say retrenching but looking maybe about bidding policy things like that are there changes you can make fundamentally to the business? Or do you think you were running it fine before this is just bad luck? Well I think we've done a great job in that business over many years of really building that business on an organic basis.
As you recall we made one major acquisition there years back.
We've dramatically grown that business organically for a significant period of time.
I think we've had a little bit of a perfect storm hit us in terms of a couple of projects that either were pushed out into 2016 a couple of projects we didn't win and then having a business that significant amount of its time and focus was involved in something that did nothing to benefit the business.
From things as simple as rightsizing the business as the business was shrinking we were very constrained on what we were able to do in the business because of the Audit Committee investigation.
So I think that even managing the business on a day-to-day basis became very challenging with a lot of outside forces influencing that.
I think that's gone and I think it allows us to go back into that business make the necessary changes again refocus on what we're doing and hopefully improve it very quickly.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks Dan.
The next question is from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Could you talk a little bit more about the pipeline projects that you're looking at or that you've already booked in the third quarter? And specifically George you mentioned it looks like you're going to be making about an $84 million equity investment there.
Is that foregone profits that you're donating in there? I mean are these cash-positive contracts? I just want to understand that a little bit better and any risks associated with this work as an equity investment as opposed to traditional relationships.
We talked extensively about this on one of our last calls and the entire equity contribution relates to two projects that we were awarded in as a consortium member and an RFP process.
Both of the projects are in the U.S.
and they're basically pipelines to transport gas from the U.S.
to Mexico for CFE.
We think that the projects from a return on equity investment are extremely attractive.
We've got some incredible partners in that consortium.
We decided to invest equity in that deal on a standalone basis irrespective of the construction.
The construction we're going to perform at typical margins and really it's an added benefit of being able to invest in the project.
The project will have billions of dollars of free cash flow over its life.
It's an initial term of 25 years with an extension beyond that.
The project will be 80% 85% financed from the outside the rest of it will be equity which is the equity contribution we're making.
We'll own a third of that consortium and again it's a fantastic project.
It's a fantastic return on our equity and something that quite frankly if we get the opportunity to do in the future we're going to look very closely at.
Okay.
Thanks for that José.
And then the second question I had was given that you're through the audit review and some of the issues have you changed your thoughts on either acquisitions or divestitures of any operations? I mean did you think about your portfolio of businesses? Look we evaluate our portfolio of businesses all the time.
I think that when we look across all of our different segments today we're very satisfied with the segments we're in.
We think each of those segments afford us the opportunity for significant growth over a long period of time.
Quite frankly irrespective of the issues we've had in our Transmission business we're very bullish on that industry on where the industry is headed on the amount of capital that's flowing into that industry the amount and size of projects on a go-forward basis.
So our outlook on that business hasn't changed at all.
We have looked at our internal processes.
We have looked at how we're bidding large projects at how we're tracking large projects.
So I think we've made some necessary and appropriate changes to ensure that we're never in this position again on a go-forward basis.
But our outlook on the industry and on being in the business has not changed.
Okay.
Thanks José.
Congratulations on getting through this.
Our next question is from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Good morning José.
Good morning George.
Good morning Bill.
Could we just go into a little bit of the current pricing of the bookings per segment and how the pricing at this time is going into each segment? Well I think when you look at Oil &amp; Gas I think pricing in oil and gas market is actually quite strong.
I think the market was slow in early 2014.
I think it improved towards the back half of 2014 and I think it's actually stayed pretty solid.
Obviously you have pockets where things become more competitive.
Some of the shorter-term work is more competitive because people are trying to stay busy in anticipation of what's expected to be a very active future.
When you look at our Communications business obviously there's a lot going on there and we've got multiple segments on the Wireline business.
I think you're going to see price escalation continue.
The wireless market has obviously – it's having a difficult year relative to the overall industry.
So again from a short-term basis I think you see margin pressure.
On a longer-term basis I don't think there's significant margin pressure.
Our Power Gen business is improving and I think pricing there and pricing potential there is getting stronger.
And in Transmission again you've got some short-term projects that I think have more of a margin drag than – or more margin dynamics than you do on long-term project.
So again as we look forward I don't think margins and pricing's an issue in the industry.
Quite frankly in most of those industries I see pricing getting a lot better in the short term.
Okay.
My follow-up is on the pipeline arena the very large amounts of projects that are not in backlog right now.
And more importantly potentially performing some work in-country in Mexico.
Can you just speak on those two please? Well what we've said today is we signed the deal with the consortium to build the pipeline in the U.S.
which is obviously a significant size over 300 miles of 42-inch pipe.
That's a very sizable job that will go into backlog in the third quarter.
Also since quarter-end we've been awarded over $1 billion of U.S.
pipeline work which I'm sure some of it will go in backlog in Q3 and some of it will go in backlog in Q4.
But it'll obviously be a significant increase to our current backlog.
There's a lot more out there.
There's a lot.
It's a very very active market today.
I think when all is said and done we're going to be very very full towards the end of the year as it relates to 2016.
I think we're going to have significant 2017 bookings already in hands (47:38) as we finish 2015.
And then I think as you look at Mexico it's a whole other market.
It's one that we've been talking about now for several quarters.
We've been in country there for a long time.
Very optimistic about what's going on there.
And I think there's no doubt in my mind that we'll be building pipe in Mexico next year.
And I think awards on that will also come shortly.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Bill.
The next question is from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on for Vishal.
Hey good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
So I just wanted to go back to the Electrical Transmission segment.
So if you back out the underperforming projects can you talk about what the margins would look like? And then also I know you mentioned that one of those projects would be rolling off in September but I just want to get a sense for the other ones just in terms of timing for project roll off? Well I think to (48:40) margin drag on a couple of projects and then you have significantly lower revenues than what we're anticipating.
So as we look at the back half of the year I think we have a very moderated look on what our revenues are going to be relative to our original expectations.
And based on that revenue level which is challenging relative to our overall cost basis we expect EBITDA margins to either be breakeven or slightly positive which I think is a reflection of where the business is at those revenue levels.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then so it seems like you see some pretty positive opportunity over the near term in Oil &amp; Gas but may take a little bit to get Electrical Transmission back towards growing backlog.
So my question is like what sort of flexibility do you have to shift resources from one segment to another just to improve that utilization? Well I think when you look at Transmission and Oil &amp; Gas they're obviously different.
We've got – I don't know that they're fully transferrable from one end – from one segment to the other.
At the end of the day we're going to right size our Electrical Transmission business to the business they have.
We've been working very hard at positioning ourselves to take advantage of the growth in the Oil &amp; Gas market.
We've been hiring people we've been hiring key superintendents.
We bought a lot of equipment over the last couple of years and we think we're very well poised and ready for what we think is going to be a significant growth in that market and our ability to execute on that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Adam.
Hey José in the Oil &amp; Gas business I mean I guess there will be this year with oil and gas prices down and production starting to flatten out.
Well given that backdrop I mean why – what really drives strong pipeline spend in the next few years? Well it's specific projects right? So I think you've got a dozen extremely large pipelines that are all in my opinion going to get built.
There are very specific reasons why each of those projects are going to get built.
We're not going to get obviously all of those.
But I think as an industry there's an enormous amount of work that I think many will benefit from.
I think you're seeing a lot of those pipelines currently being awarded being divvied out to multiple contractors so I think the backlog building season for contractors in general is going to be very strong.
Some work starts in late 2015.
A lot of work starts in early 2016.
I think we've been tracking those projects.
I think the majority of those projects are going forward.
Pipes been bought right of way has been procured.
Some final permits are waiting and then you're going to see an enormous amount of activity.
So we feel very strong about what's happening and we think that goes well into 2017 and 2018 regardless of where oil prices are.
Again we're working on a significant number of projects that have nothing to do with oil that obviously are gas related with the price of where gas is added say it's a very cheap natural resources that I think they're figuring out ways at how to ultimately use that and benefit from that.
And I think a lot of projects that you're seeing are based on that.
Okay.
Good.
And then the Fiber business how does that works? Are you seeing chunks of work to bid on or is that more a situation where you need to go out and procure more MSAs? Well I think you have two natures to the business.
You have a lot of incumbents that are working.
You've got obviously new entrants.
I think from an incumbent perspective obviously having MSAs is beneficial because you get the opportunity to be there in that market working.
There are a lot of MSAs currently going out specifically or contracts going out specifically for gigabit work and we're participating in those and think we're going to get our fair share of that.
So it's a very exciting market one that we think there's going to be tremendous growth for years to come.
Obviously we got our foot in that earlier this year.
The work that we have quite frankly doesn't really ramp in any significant way until 2016 that we currently have in backlog and with a lot of other opportunities that we're looking at we feel good about our ability to continue to grow that at a nice clip.
Okay.
Thanks José.
Thanks Adam.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Mas I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Sure.
I'd like to thank everybody for participating on today's call and for their interest in MasTec.
And I look forward to updating everybody on our third quarter call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on November 4 2015.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President in Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Eric and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the safe harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company does not undertake to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from the results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations and adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings press release table our 10-Q our 10-K or in the Investors and News section of our website located at mastec.com.
Also note that comparisons to 2014 comparable numbers are made to the restated quarterly numbers as filed in our 2014 10-K and our 2015 10-Qs.
With us today we have José Mas our CEO; and George Pita our Executive Vice President and CFO.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by José followed by a financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a Q&amp;A period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of important things to talk about today so I'd like to turn it over to José.
José? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2015 third quarter call.
Today I will be reviewing our third quarter results as well as providing my outlook for the markets we serve.
Before getting started I'd like to make some general comments around where the company stands today.
We have obviously had a difficult 2015.
I believe today we at MasTec are at an inflexion point.
Starting in mid-2014 our business was dramatically impacted by two major factors – a slowdown in both our wireless and oil and gas markets.
While those events impacted 2014 we still showed almost 7% growth in revenue in 2014 versus 2013.
The lagging effect of those events coupled with the problems that we've had in our Transmission business have had a much greater impact to our business in 2015 as we now expect revenues to be down this year around 10% versus last year.
Revenues in our Transmission business are expected to be down nearly 25% year-over-year.
That coupled with expected organic declines in our Wireless business of nearly 35% and an organic decline in our Oil and Gas business of approximately 20% has led to a very challenging year in how we manage our business.
Part of the challenge is that we expect these issues to be short-lived.
The reality is that aside from the short-term revenue challenges we have faced we work in very healthy industries and we expect a very significant ramp in opportunities with the corresponding revenue in the near future.
There is no question that today in 2015 we are operating at less than optimal levels as it relates to utilization.
We are investing in our people to meet the opportunities we have next year as our business significantly grows.
In the meantime we have worked hard to manage our costs.
Again while we're not pleased with our results despite a 35% organic decline in our Wireless business we have actually been able to increase our communication margins.
While those margins have been helped by the strength of our Wireline business we have taken significant cost out of our Wireless business and expect to have strong margin opportunities as the business returns to a more normalized level.
The same can be said in our Oil and Gas business.
We expect unprecedented levels of growth next year and we are properly stacked up from a management perspective.
Despite these added costs and an approximately organic 20% revenue decline we have been able to maintain margins within 100 basis points over last year.
Again as the volume develops and we're able to take advantage of scale and higher utilization levels we expect margins to be significantly better than they've been this year.
In summary we're disappointed with our results.
We recognize we have had multiple issues over the last few quarters.
However I am very confident that over the coming quarters you will begin to see the opportunities we have in front of us develop and we are confident in our ability to execute at a high level as we have demonstrated over a long period of time.
Now some third quarter highlights.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.1 billion.
Adjusted EBITDA was $91 million and cash flow from operations for the nine months ended September was $261 million.
Our results this quarter were negatively impacted by a softness in revenue in both our Oil and Gas and Wireless businesses and the continued underperformance in our Transmission business.
As we look beyond 2015 our outlook is very strong.
We expect considerable revenue growth and associated margins primarily driven by a very active oil and gas market where we expect record revenues supported by our growing backlog and the number of projects we continue to win a growing and robust fiber-to-the-home market driven by gigabit deployment and an improving wireless market with multiple carriers spending increasing levels of CapEx.
Now I'd like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communications revenue for the quarter was $513 million versus $505 million last year.
The slight increase in revenue was driven by a strong increase in our Wireline business.
EBITDA margins in this segment were 9.9% versus 10.4% last year.
Again despite a nearly 35% organic decline in our Wireless business margins were only off 50 basis points.
In our install-to-the-home market revenues were up 21% sequentially.
The merger between AT&amp;T and DirecTV is now complete and we managed through that integration very well.
We're excited about our future growth opportunities.
Wireline revenues for the quarter were up nearly 25% year-over-year and we continue to see strong demand in everything from electric distribution to fiber rollout and expansion.
We expect gigabit revenues will continue to ramp and expect considerable growth as we begin to ramp construction activity based on our current backlog.
Our Wireless business as expected was down year-over-year.
Despite the significant revenue decline we've been able to approximate last year's margin levels.
We believe that as revenue normalizes and our expected growth materializes we will be able to leverage and grow margins.
One of our strengths and differentiators in this business is our vast geographic coverage.
As carriers increase CapEx we are extremely well positioned to benefit from that growth.
Data usage and demand is expected to continue to grow at exponential level requiring our customers to increase their network's capacity.
We are also encouraged by the FCC's move to the Connect America Fund which has stimulated new spending by carriers to bring wireless broadband to rural America.
This initiative will trigger technology adds on existing towers cell tower reinforcement and incremental fiber builds to areas needing the coverage.
During the quarter we also expanded our wireless footprint in Mexico.
Today we are working in Mexico for three of the major OEMs and direct for two of the major carriers.
These are very positive long-term trends that will help our business.
Revenue in our electrical transmission business was $76 million versus $138 million in last year's third quarter.
We continue to underperform in this business relative to our expectations.
Our primary focus today is on getting this business back to a profitable level.
We have taken significant steps at right-sizing this business and now expect fourth quarter EBITDA to approximate break even.
We were successful on a number of projects during the quarter as was evidenced by our backlog growth.
More importantly we have a number of larger jobs that will be awarded during the fourth quarter and we feel good about our prospects.
As we look into 2016 we expect a dramatic earnings improvement.
Moving to our power generation and industrial segment revenue was $115 million for the third quarter versus $114 million in the prior year.
The bidding environment for 2016 is strong.
We expect continued improved performance from this segment and believe revenue growth can exceed 10% in 2016.
Our Oil and Gas pipeline segment had revenues of $407 million for the third quarter compared to revenues of $554 million in last year's third quarter.
EBITDA margin from this segment was 12.5% up from 10.1% sequentially.
Our focus in this group has been preparing for what we expect to be a significant increase in the workload over the course of the next few years.
While backlog was up this quarter we continue to bid and win significant projects for both 2016 and 2017.
Not included in backlog are over $1.5 billion worth of projects that we have won which we expect to include in backlog at yearend.
Those awards are for work in the U.S.
with the majority to be completed in 2016.
In addition we continue to bid on projects and we're seeing significant opportunities for 2017 and 2018.
We are at the beginning of what we think will be a very robust multi-year cycle.
Our expansion efforts in Mexico are ongoing and we believe we are getting closer to executing projects in country.
To recap 2015 has been and is a challenging year for us.
We understand we've had significant issues over several quarters.
However I want to reiterate the confidence we have in our business.
In 2016 we expect several catalysts for improvement.
First we expect solid revenue growth in our wireless wireline and oil and gas markets.
Second we expect the margins associated with those businesses to improve as we leverage our scale and reach higher utilization levels that have a direct benefit to margins.
And third we expect our transmission business to return to profitability.
Again we're disappointed with our performance in 2015.
We need to get through 2015 and we look forward to executing on the opportunities we have ahead of us as we get back to performing at a high level.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our CFO George Pita for our financial review.
George? Thank you José and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover third quarter financial results fourth quarter and full year 2015 guidance along with our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As in our previous calls when we discuss our financial results and guidance we will be discussing non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
Full reconciliations from GAAP results to adjusted results are included in our Form 10-Q and press release tables.
Consistent with prior quarters continuing operations adjusted results exclude acquisition integration costs related to the WesTower acquisition.
We incurred approximately $1 million of acquisition integration costs during the third quarter and the process is now complete.
We are also excluding audit committee investigation-related costs which totaled approximately $4 million during the third quarter for a cumulative total of approximately $15 million on a year-to-date basis.
The audit committee made substantial progress in this effort during the quarter.
It is currently anticipated that we will incur approximately $1 million in investigation-related costs during the fourth quarter in connection with the anticipated conclusion of the audit committee investigation.
During the quarter we recorded a $3 million project loss related to our non-controlled minority interest in a Canadian joint venture which is constructing a bridge in Western Canada.
That joint venture which is managed by a third party and automatically terminates after completion of the project has experienced delays in delivery of a key material from a manufacturer which has further delayed the construction schedule of the bridge and caused additional project costs.
We have no substantive direct involvement in the project which we acquired as part of the Pacer acquisition in 2014 as Pacer's work pile-driving and foundation was substantially completed before our acquisition.
While we have reflected the full amount of our proportional share of this project's losses we are pursuing several alternatives for potential recovery.
As this project doesn't relate to any current MasTec operations we are excluding it from our adjusted results.
Last week during the third quarter we recorded a loss of approximately $12 million related to a settlement reached during a court-mandated mediation regarding a previously-disclosed 2013 project billing dispute.
While we will receive a substantial settlement payment from the project owner in our fourth quarter the final settlement was less than we had anticipated and we reflected this during our third quarter.
We are bound by nondisclosure provisions in the settlement so we are limited in what we can say about this matter.
I will say that closing this matter given a significant cash settlement to be received in our fourth quarter coupled with potential expense and distraction of further-prolonged litigation is prudent in our judgment.
The impact of these charges reduced our third quarter 2015 GAAP fully diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.14.
Here are some takeaways for the quarter.
Third quarter 2015 revenue was $1.1 billion a 16% decrease when compared to $1.3 billion for the same period last year and less than our initial expectation of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
Third quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $91 million as compared to $138 million for the same period last year and our initial expectation of $100 million to $108 million.
On a rate basis continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was 8.2% of revenue compared to 10.5% for the same period and our initial expectation of 9% to 9.1%.
Excluding the impact of third quarter Electrical Transmission segment adjusted results continuing operations adjusted EBITDA for all other segments was approximately $103 million or 9.9% of revenue for the 2015 third quarter.
Third quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings were $0.26 per share compared to $0.60 per share last year and our initial expectation of $0.31 to $0.37 per share.
Cash flow from operations during the quarter was approximately $99 million and on a year-to-date basis we have generated cash flow from operations of approximately $261 million compared to $81 million last year an increase of $180 million and this despite reduced 2015 earnings performance.
The third quarter earnings shortfall versus our initial expectation was driven by lower revenues and margin pressure.
Lower revenues versus expectation were primarily related to a delayed large project start-up in our Oil and Gas segment and while this project has started in the fourth quarter our current fiscal 2015 guidance assumes a greater portion of this project including amounts previously expected in the fourth quarter will now slip into 2016.
Despite the lower levels of third quarter revenue Oil and Gas segment continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margins were strong at 12.5% of revenue.
During the third quarter we experienced margin pressure primarily in the Electrical Transmission and Communications segments.
In electrical transmission we experienced a combination of lower-than-expected revenue levels which impacted overhead utilization project inefficiencies including project close-outs as well as higher-than-anticipated legal costs in connection with the project dispute.
While third quarter earnings performance was challenging we are pleased with the Electrical Transmission segment's backlog growth during the quarter which grew $77 million sequentially representing a 41% backlog growth for this segment.
We are in the midst of a very active bidding environment in this market in which we feel we are very well positioned.
While the Electrical Transmissions segment continued to experience continuing operations adjusted EBITDA losses during the third quarter and has year-to-date adjusted EBITDA losses of approximately $35 million we currently anticipate that this segment's profit performance will turn the corner and improve during the fourth quarter with fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA having at a slight loss approaching a breakeven level.
This is due to sequentially-improved revenue levels the non-recurrence of selected project closeout inefficiencies and significantly-reduced levels of legal costs which on a year-to-date basis have been a significant drain on this segment exceeding $7 million and approaching 3% of revenues.
In Communications while we recorded third quarter adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 10% we continued to experience weakness in wireless project activity with organic revenue declining over 35% when compared to last year.
This has caused EBITDA margin pressure especially as we look to maintain the appropriate infrastructure to support the expected rebound in levels of wireless project activity from multiple carriers in 2016.
And lastly to a smaller extent we experienced margin pressure during the third quarter in our Power Generation segment which recorded $3.8 million in final project losses in completion of a previously-disclosed troubled Canadian wind farm project.
Reported 2015 third quarter EBITDA margin for the Power Generation segment was 4.2% of revenue and absent the impact of this final project loss 2015 third quarter reported EBITDA margin would have been closer to our second quarter rate at approximately 7.5% of revenue.
While the third quarter was a difficult one in terms of current profit performance it should be noted that we made significant strides in terms of backlog growth with backlog growing approximately $500 million or 12% to a record level of approximately $4.6 billion and this growth occurred across multiple segments including Oil and Gas Electrical Transmission and Communications.
As indicated in yesterday's release we expect continued backlog growth as we close out 2015 which puts us in a strong position to improve financial performance as we enter 2016.
In summary while the third quarter and 2015 year as a whole have been challenging across a number of fronts the significant expansion of backlog during the quarter to record levels and the continued expectation of significant backlog growth during the fourth quarter are strong signals of a much-improved outlook for 2016.
Now I will discuss a summary of our top 10 largest customers for the third quarter of 2015 as a percentage of revenue.
AT&amp;T revenue derived from wireless wireline and install-to-home security services was approximately 17%; and DirecTV was approximately 14%.
And on a combined basis these four separate services totaled 31%.
Momentum Midstream was 9%.
Energy Transfer Company was 7%.
MidAmerican Energy and Duke Energy were each at 3% and CNRL Algonquin Energy Plains All American Pipeline and Elite Inc.
were each at 2% of revenues.
In addition a customer who has requested that we not disclose its identity was also 2% of revenues as our tenth largest customer during the third quarter.
Individual construction projects comprised 56% of our third quarter revenue with master service agreements comprising 44% and this mix is generally in line with historical trends.
At quarter end our 18-month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $4.6 billion compared to approximately $4.1 billion as of the second quarter of 2015 a sequential increase of approximately 12%.
Backlog growth was led by the Oil and Gas segment which grew 32% reflecting the addition of two large Texas pipeline projects taking gas to the Mexican border.
As indicated in yesterday's release we have over $1.5 billion in Oil and Gas awards in the process of being signed and expect this will be added to our backlog during the fourth quarter with a majority of this work scheduled to be performed in 2016.
We also experienced significant backlog growth in the Electrical Transmission segment which grew approximately $77 million or 41% during the quarter.
We are pleased to see this growth as a sign of a return of the normal course marketing and operation efforts for this group after the disrupted events experienced earlier this year.
And lastly it's noteworthy that we also experienced a sizeable increase of almost $190 million in Communications segment backlog during the quarter.
Regarding other areas of the income statement below the EBITDA line third quarter 2015 depreciation and amortization expense was in line with our expectation at 3.8% of revenue compared to 3.2% last year and interest expense during the third quarter of 2015 was $12 million compared to $12.6 million last year.
Our third quarter 2015 GAAP effective income tax rate was slightly over 45% and for the year-to-date 2015 period our GAAP provision for income taxes was $3.3 million on GAAP pre-tax earnings of less than $1 million.
As a reminder our 2015 GAAP provision for income taxes includes approximately $2.6 million of a non-recurring provision recorded during the second quarter to reflect the revaluation impact of a tax rate change in Alberta Canada on existing deferred tax liabilities.
This coupled with the impact of permanent differences in relation to lower levels of GAAP income will lead to an effective 2015 GAAP tax rate that may exceed 75% and is misleading for purposes of calculating 2015 adjusted earnings results.
Accordingly our 2015 adjusted results and guidance reflect a 45% adjusted tax rate which is calculated excluding the impact of the non-recurring Alberta tax law provision and utilizing adjusted earnings.
Based on the expected non-recurrence of onetime tax law changes and the expected convergence of GAAP and adjusted earnings results in 2016 we anticipate that both our GAAP and adjusted income tax rates for 2016 will be in the low 40% range.
Now let me talk about our cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As we have previously noted our long-term capital structure is solid with low rates and no near-term maturities and we have an excellent bank group.
I would like to thank our bank group for their support during a trying 2015 period.
As we previously announced during the quarter we amended our senior revolving credit facility to provide us additional flexibility with only a modest fee and no change in interest rate terms.
I think it bears repeating that we generated $261 million in cash flow from operations for the nine months ended September 2016 compared to $81 million for the same period last year a $180 million increase despite reduced earnings performance.
As we have indicated for quite some time now we expect 2015 to be a record year in terms of cash flow from operations.
Our third quarter 2015 accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs were 75 days compared to 86 days as of the end of our second quarter 2015 which is an 11-day decrease and 88 days for the 2014 third quarter which is a 13-day decrease.
This improvement is driven by the combination of improved collection performance across all major segments and segment mix due to reduced levels of Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission segment revenues.
As we look forward consistent with our prior statements we believe that our DSO levels will typically range somewhere in the mid-80s.
Regarding our spending on capital equipment third quarter 2015 cash CapEx net of disposals was approximately $17 million.
Year-to-date we have incurred $61 million of cash CapEx net of disposals and added $26 million in capital leases for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $87 million.
We currently estimate that we will spend approximately $75 million in cash CapEx in 2015 net of disposals with an additional $25 million to $35 million in finance CapEx for a total CapEx spend net of disposals of $100 million to $110 million.
Liquidity at September 30 calculated as cash plus availability on our senior revolving credit facility was $485 million.
Our overall net debt level as of September 30 was approximately $1.2 billion.
As always we evaluate our capital structure to ensure we have ample liquidity and allow us the financial flexibility to pursue attractive growth opportunities.
As we look forward into 2016 we expect our leverage ratios to significantly improve when compared to 2015 yearend levels due to expected increased levels of operating profit.
Moving on to our 2015 full-year guidance we are now projecting annual revenue of approximately $4.1 billion to $4.15 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of approximately $295 million to $305 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.53 to $0.60.
This translates to fourth quarter revenue guidance of approximately $900 million just slightly less than $1 billion with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA margin in the range of 7.7% to 8.2% percent of revenue.
Our current guidance assumes lower levels of fourth quarter revenue production on a large Oil and Gas project currently in process due to a delayed start date.
We currently expect that while fourth quarter Oil and Gas revenues will decrease sequentially from third quarter levels in the mid 20% range which will negatively impact fourth quarter overhead utilization and EBITDA margins.
Given our expectations for significant increases in 2016 Oil and Gas project activity we are obviously not impacting overhead levels for expected short-term fluctuations in revenue.
Our estimate of share count for diluted earnings per share is about 81 million for the full year and 80.5 million for the fourth quarter.
In summary while we have had a challenging year with both internal and external headwinds we are excited about the prospects in 2016 and beyond and look forward to capitalizing on the numerous growth opportunities in the markets we serve.
And that concludes my remarks.
And now I'll turn the call back to the operator.
Operator? Thank you.
And we'll go first to Matt Duncan with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> José I want to start by talking about the Oil and Gas segment where it looks like you're still seeing very good prospects.
I think last quarter it was $1 billion $1.0 billion expected in bookings by year end.
Now it's $1.5 billion.
Can you maybe give us a little color on what you're adding to the backlog there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's more projects.
Today the – and I think we're really trying to send the message across right? The industry's doing great; the oil and gas market per se has tons of opportunities available to it a lot of them for 2016 but quite frankly there's a lot of conversations right now about 2017 projects even into 2018.
As far as we can see out for the next three to five years it looks like it's going to be an unbelievable run.
And quite frankly the amount of business that's out there available for 2016 is extremely high and we're getting our share of it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then the second question from me just in the communications business AT&amp;T I believe on their call talked about being ready for the one-truck role in some markets in November.
I'm just curious if that's on par with the expectation that you guys had.
And then remind us what your expectation is of how your relationship with them is going to work on DirecTV installs going forward.
My recollection is as long as it's just DirecTV that's still going to be MasTec.
But just if you could provide some clarity there that'd be great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look so far we're really excited with the new integration the new team.
It's obviously a new company although a lot of the same things are in place and business as usual continues.
We're excited about what our business looks like for 2016 with them.
We've obviously had an enormous amount of dialog.
We're very encouraged by it.
We think we've got a lot of opportunities and a lot of ways in which we could ultimately potentially grow our business.
But right now we do expect them to do some single-truck roles.
It will affect us in some markets; it won't affect us in others.
But quite frankly they're doing a really good job.
Obviously you've got a much bigger customer base as you throw in the U-verse video customers.
We're seeing the benefit of that and it's really not impacting our business to a great nature in either direction right now which is good.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
I'll hop back in queue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
I guess for George the Walterdale Bridge project that you mentioned in your comments 65% complete and I guess they're – given the weather that one's going to stop for the winter.
What's the expected cash drag do you think to get that one completed? Or is there still cash that you might have to pay to finish up that project? We – at this point we think we've incorporated all the losses that have – that we expect from the project.
Obviously it's 65% complete.
From a cash perspective I don't think it's going to be a major drain for us going forward.
I mean our – really it's a recognition of the losses which we've been doing on a proportional basis.
As I mentioned in my remarks there's also a number of things we're evaluating to pursue some recovery with that but that's not yet been fully developed so we haven't reflected that.
So it should not be a significant cash issue for us going forward.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just other items here.
It looked like in the quarter you elected to sell some receivables.
I was kind of curious as to the impetus for that.
It was about $29 million.
Can you just give us some color on why and is this something we should expect more of or less of in the future? Nothing – it's nothing new.
It's something we've been doing since the fourth quarter of last year.
It's just a program that we've gone through where we have a – it reduces our cycle time on receivables and actually comes in a little bit cheaper rate.
So it's not a new effect for the quarter.
That's not a driver of the DSO reduction for the quarter; it's something we've been doing since last year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the use – the cash flow.
You mentioned that as you move into 2016 the leverage levels will be coming down mostly through EBITDA growth but do you expect to be paying down debt as well as part of that with the cash that you generate over the next couple of quarters? Or what should we think about in terms of the cash usage? I mean we will – certainly we expect to significantly delever given what's been what we consider an abnormally low level of profit performance in 2015 and given the significant strength of the prospects that we have for 2016.
So that – from a deleveraging standpoint that'll be a significant event.
We will generate a significant amount of cash flow with that.
There will be some working capital usage.
Obviously if we grow to the levels in 2016 that we're expecting to grow we will use some working capital so that will eat up some of the cash flow that we generate but we still would expect to additionally delever – again absent other usage of capital right if we determine there's some other investment that we would make it would change that.
But absent that we would expect to delever going forward as well as reduce our leverage levels.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And just to add to George's answer the receivable program is actually a customer-driven program.
So it's something that a particular customer did to help all contractors relative to the cycle time.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Next will be Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Quite a long year huh? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes it has been.
Morning Tahira.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
I guess you know José you've clearly built a broad-based backlog in all three segments.
What we hear from AT&amp;T should point to really a lot of the spending troughing of one of your core clients going forward.
So really I guess the questions I have are mostly on the execution side.
We know on the electric transmission side some of your peers have been talking about exceptional amounts of competitive pressure.
How do we get comfortable around what you've been booking over the last quarter in terms of pricing and risk let's say maybe versus even a couple of years ago.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I'm going to break it out in the different segments because I actually think it's a great question and we really tried to spend a lot of time today talking about margins despite significant revenue decline.
So if you – and I'm going to start with – I'm going to leave Transmission to the end.
But if we look at our Communications business and I really can't say it enough right we've really struggled in our Wireless business this year.
The struggles have primarily been related to revenues and our customers' CapEx.
I think we've ad nauseam talked about those issues over the last few quarters as it related to some of our bigger customers but we're very confident that we're going to see a very strong rebound to revenues as it relates to Wireless.
We think we're going to get back to a more normalized level.
It's actually a very large component of our Communications segment.
The fact in our opinion that we've been able to slightly increase margins in our Communications business despite the revenue issues that we had – have there I think bode extremely well to the future because as you think about us increasing our revenues and getting back to normalized states and everything that that implies relative to margins we think that's a fabulous story that we've proven over time we've proven our ability to manage margins in good times in that business and I think this year unlike 2014 we've proved that we can manage margins during a more difficult period with declining revenues.
We didn't do that well in 2014.
We think we've done it extremely well in 2015.
So we kind of put that one aside.
And Oil and Gas again 12.5% margins in the quarter.
We knew it was going to be a rougher year relative to revenue because we knew a lot of the projects were going to get pushed out into 2016.
I think when we look at not only what we've booked but what we've got coming we're extremely excited about the business.
We think we're going to reach record revenues in 2016.
When you look at – if we take one quarter – for example if we take the third quarter of 2014 that business did $550 million in revenue at 13.2% margins.
We're nowhere near that today but if you look at what we're expecting for next year we actually expect to do even better than that from a revenue perspective on a ongoing basis.
If we can execute to previous levels and get close to those margins it's obviously a huge differentiator from where we are today.
Those are two big drivers in MasTec and not just for 2016 but as we look beyond 2016 2017 into 2018.
And then finally you have Transmission right? This is an area where if you go back to 2011 we're very proud of the accomplishments that we had from 2011 to 2014.
The business grew.
We performed at good margins we never blew margins out of the water but we were in high growth mode.
Very challenging year this year not all external we've had a lot of internal issues that we've had to deal with.
Obviously been impacted by some of the external issues that some of our peers are also facing this year.
Look we expect the business – we're not going to see huge revenue growth in that business next year.
We're going to manage growth we're going to manage the expectations as it comes to revenue.
We're going to manage our costs as hard as we can.
We're not even looking to get to historical levels we just need to get to profitable levels.
I think the work that we've picked up and the work that we expect to pick up I think we're bidding them at adequate margins.
Is there pressure in the business today? Absolutely.
I know there's a lot of talk about that.
At the end of the day we've got to prove it out.
We've got to execute.
Again I think we've done that in that business for a long period of time except obviously 2015.
So at the end of the day we need to show it we need to prove it but we actually feel really good about it.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay José.
And then George how should we think about free cash flow for next year? A lot of your businesses are going to start ramping up again.
How does that influence working capital next year? Well I think working capital if you do the calculation there should be some usage of working capital next year depending on the level of growth.
I think we said that DSOs would be in the 80s kind of number in the mid 80s so there will be some usage of that next year but we will still generate significant free cash flow again depending on how you model out the expansion that we have coming into 2016.
I think we'll – given all that absent additional investment M&amp;A or other items we would expect to delever in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much folks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Tahira.
The next question is from Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
And George maybe if I could just add to that question as you look at 2016 you've got the covenant on the debt facility taken care of.
Is there a time when you look to – back to the share buyback program and getting something authorized? Or is it simply right now paying some of that debt back before you start to look on that side? Well look we always...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm going to answer the question.
I think it's all opportunistic so it really depends on where we're at.
Obviously we think our share is extremely undervalued.
We're obviously trying to be prudent around that where we stand from our capital structure but I think it's highly dependent on where we're at at any given point in time.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And as far as the $1.5 billion you mentioned to be added to backlog here in the next couple of months is – try not to be too specific because – hopefully getting an answer out of it but is there anything in Mexico that's included in that? Or is that all simply U.S.-based stuff making anything coming out of Mexico incremental? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> What we've talked about today is all U.S.
making anything in Mexico incremental.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just wanted to clarify.
Thank you.
The next question is from Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Good morning José.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Alex.
How are you? Pretty good.
Clearly it sounds like oil and gas opportunities are going to ramp pretty quickly in 2016 and wireless is going to rebound.
Can you help us to sort of understand do we start to see that ramp in the first quarter or are we waiting for the summertime and the second half of the year to really see that coming through your P&amp;L? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it obviously increases in the second quarter especially as a lot of the weather-related areas become fully workable but I do think you'll see impact in Q1 as well.
And then as it relates to some of the underperforming projects that you've experienced in the last couple of quarters obviously the issues with the bridge will likely continue but how many other projects are yet to be completed that have underperformed? And of those if there are any when would you expect them to be completed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a good question.
Right so we've got the bridge in Canada.
Acciona is the lead in that project so we really don't have much day-to-day involvement whatsoever other than we originally did on that project a long time ago.
We had the Bow Lake Wind Project in Canada which was a problem earlier this year which was a slight problem in the quarter as well which I think has depressed power gen margins.
That project's done right so I think ex that that business is doing really well.
We don't really have any other projects where we've had difficulties in that market.
And even as you look at our Transmission business right I think it's really interesting and important to note we don't have projects in huge loss positions.
We've got a lot of projects that in closeouts faded so they went from a higher profit margin to a lower profit margin which obviously impacted the year results.
But I think overall some of those projects are actually still in good standing.
We've had a couple of we've struggled with.
Most of that has been cleaned out.
So I think as we look going into the fourth quarter we're pretty clean on projects right? We don't have a lot of troubled projects.
Whatever we have left we expect to complete by yearend.
So I think we're going into 2016 with a lot more of a clean slate.
Thank you.
I'll get back in queue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Alex.
The next question is from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
A couple of things relative to backlog.
José specifically on the Communications backlog a lot of that work is MSAs and I believe the estimates of what you expect to be done and I was just wondering especially with the Wireline business how much assurance do you have that this work will actually get executed into 2016? And has it changed at all especially with the AT&amp;T DirecTV merger? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So we've actually as it relates to a lot of our Communications business it's been a lot more project-driven as we've looked at backlog related to for example on the Wireline side as you mentioned it's very project-specific driven so it's not so much of the MSA-type calculation.
So I think it's a much more solid calculation.
Okay.
Good.
And then can – and in terms of your confidence relative to the Wireline business the – I mean do you actually have orders in hand for that? Or it's just customer conversations? I mean I'm sorry the Wireless business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The Wireless business.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So look the Wireless business is changing.
I think there is great opportunities.
I think our customer base today is more broad-based than it's historically been.
Obviously AT&amp;T is our largest customer and will continue to be.
We're bullish about their sentiments going into 2016 with what we know.
But we're also growing with other customers.
We're growing with some of the tower operators that are actually doing a lot more work related to their towers.
The Wireless business at the end of the day is all going to be about what happens in the industry.
In 2004 data grew at 1.6-fold what it was in 2013.
Projections are that it's going to grow 6-fold in the next five years.
So data demand is driving the industry.
Capacity is driving what's happening in the wireless industry today.
It's affecting all of the carriers.
All of the carriers are dealing with it a little bit differently.
I think we've got solid opportunities with all of them and as we've built our backlog it's very specific to customers.
It's very specific to projects and their build plans for 2016.
Okay.
And then on the pipeline backlog I mean these are – it sounds like multiple large projects that you're pulling into backlog.
And just following up on a little bit earlier questions how much risk do we have just in terms of timing weather those sorts of events? And how much volatility are you expecting in 2016 especially quarter to quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look it's a good question.
We don't have it fully answered yet.
We've got schedules on all the projects where we expect to start when we expect to end.
I think the end dates are obviously as important are probably more important to the customers than the start dates.
Both dates are very important to us.
Look we've got all our models built.
We've got what we think is sufficient cushion in the projects to be able to move whether things get delayed a month or six weeks to be able to meet the schedules that we need to meet.
Beyond that obviously we need to re-discuss with our customers.
It's a business that's going to be somewhat volatile so – and it's going to be a business that's big.
So if you miss by a month it's going to be significant numbers.
I think as we think about 2016 and especially as we think about giving public guidance we're going to take that into consideration and really build some of those factors in so that we're not in the position that we've been in in 2015 over and over again.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
The next question is from Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Dan.
So first a follow-up on electric.
When you look at the third quarter results could you maybe discuss how much variance was there in the third quarter versus your previous expectations and where that stemmed from i.e.
under-utilization or fade? And then contrast that with your confidence in a recovery to closer to breakeven in the fourth quarter.
Dan sure.
This is George.
Yeah during the third quarter as I mentioned we really – that the revenue levels for the transmission business were less than we expected.
That impacted us from a direct margin perspective as well as utilization of our overhead.
So that was definitely a factor in the under-performance during the third quarter.
We also had a handful of project close-outs and project inefficiencies that hit us during the quarter.
And that impacted our expectation during the quarter.
So as I mentioned earlier a lot of that we think is behind us at this point.
And not necessarily they were all lost projects but they were just reductions of margins and finalization of some projects.
And then we also indicated we had some pretty significant legal costs incurred during the quarter in connection with some of these the resolution of some items.
As we look forward into the fourth quarter we believe that we're going to improve results from the third quarter because of a combination of a little bit of a sequential increase in revenue.
We think the revenue levels will grow in the fourth quarter given some of the projects that we've got awarded and in process coupled with again the non-recurrence of some of those project issues and then a much lower level of legal costs.
And the combination of those three will give us confidence in that we think we'll see improved results on the transmission business in the fourth quarter.
Sure.
And then a couple questions on the Oil and Gas business.
And I don't mean to pile on here about delays but can you talk a little bit more about maybe the issues surrounding the project that slipped a little bit from Q3 and Q4? Was that regulatory? Was it economic? Was it weather? And then a little bit on the projects that are not in backlog but that you've been awarded.
Where are they particularly on the regulatory side and how close are they to actually getting the key regulatory approvals because that seems to be probably one of the key gating factors to you guys moving ahead? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So specifically on the project mentioned in the fourth quarter it's a project where as a company we have multiple segments and legs.
Some of them actually did perform in Q3 completely as expected.
Some of them were slightly delayed and a lot of that had to do with permitting issues.
The projects weren't slated to start concurrently.
So there was a slight delay in one of those projects which is I think the prepared remarks what we talked about.
When we think of the other projects look every one of these projects are large they're complex.
What we can say about most of these projects is materials have been ordered and in many cases all of the materials are already on the ground.
A number of permits – a lot of these projects start without full permitting or full right of way actually completed.
And they continue those aspects of the project even as you begin construction.
So I'd say all of the projects are in some way in those ranges.
I think there's work ready to be done on basically all of them at this point but you wait until a certain point until you actually start.
We feel good about the schedules that are in place.
We've been active on these projects and talking about these projects for a long period of time.
These awards have – they drag out a little bit.
We've felt confident about winning this work for a long time.
We've got it.
We understand what's required of us and we feel good.
I mean could there be a month or two delays on projects? Sure.
And I think we're going to build that into what we say.
I don't think it will have a significant impact on the full year as we look at 2016 either way.
Got it.
Thanks.
The next question is from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Bill.
First George congrats on the DSO improvement.
Very nicely done.
We've been waiting for that for quite some time.
José I want to go right to Mexico since many of my colleagues have taken all my questions.
Can you give us an idea of the size the scope you're seeing down there? Is there a need to possibly build a greenfield operation down there? Or just give us a sense of how you expect to execute these and I guess more importantly to guys like us are the margins comparable or even better? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So a couple things right.
We're now I think operating in Mexico in multiple businesses.
So we've been in Mexico for a while now on our Wireless side.
It's obviously been a small operation.
I think the opportunities there drastically changed when our largest customer entered the market.
We have a physical presence there.
We have people.
We have bodies.
We have offices that have been supporting that industry.
So I think that's really just taking advantage of the opportunities that present themselves over the future.
I think as you read about what some of the – what our primary customer there is doing and their plans for the future it's pretty exciting and we hope to play in role in that and over time grow that.
As it relates to the bigger opportunities that we have in country they're really more around what we've been focused on is Oil and Gas.
Although quite frankly I think in the near term transmission will also be an opportunity down there.
As it relates to Oil and Gas we've been in country now for well over a year.
We've got personnel.
We continue to build our team.
We're in a position where we're ready to go to work.
We don't have – I think we've got a lot of different methods in which we could ultimately do the construction and I think it's going to depend on overall workload and what we win.
But again like everything else a lot of these contracts have long cycles to them.
Each contract is different and they kind of take a life of their own.
As we've seen in the U.S.
a lot of these projects we've been talking about them from quarters and I think we're finally going to see a lot of those come to fruition in the fourth quarter.
I think we're in a similar boat in Mexico where we've got some good opportunities we've been working on.
And we're hoping that sooner rather than later we're in a position to execute some of those.
Okay gentlemen.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
The next question is from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
José you talked about improving profitability in the Transmission segment.
Can you maybe talk about the timing as to when we can expect some of that some of the actions you're taking to show in terms of profitability – breakeven in that segment? And also as you look at the Wireless Communications business what kind of margins should we be modeling in the long run for that segment now given the new levels of CapEx? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think George discussed the – how we're feeling about the fourth quarter as it relates to Transmission and how we think we can get much closer to our breakeven there in a very short period of time.
And so I would reiterate George's comments.
I think we've got a lot of things working in that business.
We expect some revenue increase but more importantly we expect a project mix in the type of projects and some of the projects that we've changed estimates to complete on I think a lot of that is behind us.
And I think you'll see that flow through in the fourth quarter.
As it relates to our Wireless business look I'd say the same thing we're not in a position today to give guidance obviously for 2016.
But I'd say the same directional commentary right? When you look at our historical margins and what we were able to achieve in periods where we had solid revenue we did much better.
So in 2013 our Communications margins exceeded 12.5 points which is obviously significantly more than they are today.
Our Oil and Gas margins for the year were at 13 points which obviously is a lot more than we are today.
That was a couple years ago when we were growing and revenues were strong.
We've obviously had issues over the last 18 months.
And with the amount of work that we expect quite frankly we're hoping that over time we can beat what we historically did.
We're far away from that.
We're at a different place today.
We need to start executing; we need to start having small wins and we get that.
So as we come out with 2016 we'll obviously be prudent around our public projections.
And even internally what we're thinking and how we're managing that.
So I think those are some of the things to think about as you think about our business longer term.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Vishal.
The next question is from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Adam.
José did I hear you right that communications revenue you said up 10% next year? And what's the biggest driver there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I said that about power generation revenues.
Okay.
And then can you help us with the Transmission just the bidding environment the pricing environment what you're seeing in the Transmission market in the U.S.? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a very competitive landscape.
I think historically there's been two types of projects there's been smaller projects and then there's been larger projects that I think is really where we built a lot of our growth and where we built a lot of the foundation of what we built in Transmission was around larger projects.
There's no question that there have been less larger project awards this year.
I think there is an enormous amounts of projects that will be awarded and there's an enormous amount of backlog of projects that are in queue and I think we're going to see that shortly and a bunch of those are going to pop out which I think is going to help the entire industry in a pretty sizeable fashion.
In the meantime the work that's been out there is smaller in nature.
It's quite frankly not a place where we've historically done well.
And it's really not a place where we're super focused either.
We've got some business around that but we're planning to continue to build our business more so towards the larger projects and I think that's part of the issues that we're having in 2015 as some of those – some of that work wasn't there.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Next will be Alex Rygiel with FBR.
José a quick follow-up.
In the past you've quantified how much 1-gigabit fiber you have in backlog.
Could you do that again for us today? And then can you also bracket the number of customers you have that you're doing 1 gigabit for and maybe the number of markets that you're doing 1 gigabit for? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Alex I don't have that.
I know that at one point we talked about specific gigabit awards and the total amount of those specific awards may not all of the gigabit but specific gigabit awards.
Look today there's no question we're enhancing our capabilities there and we're working for more customers than we have in previous quarters.
So I'd say we're working for a handful of customers today doing gigabit expansion.
There's an enormous of opportunity.
The bidding around gigabit opportunities is actually increasing.
It's going to be a very active next couple of months and again we feel good about our prospects of getting some of that and continuing to build on backlog and our growth opportunities there from a revenue perspective.
And I suspect that your bidding opportunities for CAF-related programs is also picking up.
Has any of that been awarded yet or have you won any CAF programs? And how should we think about the timing of those awards? Are they going to all play out in the fourth quarter or should it play out over the next 6 to 12 months? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So you know it's interesting that you asked that Alex.
We're actually seeing two very distinct opportunities related to CAF.
One is on the Wireline side as those companies are deploying gigabit services and we are participating there and we're excited about those opportunities and we do expect some of that to play out over at least the next two quarters.
But for us almost more impactful is what it's doing to the Wireless business because there's a lot of carriers that have a Wireless bent toward what they're doing with CAF funds so they're actually trying to provide Internet services to rural areas via wireless product and not wireline product and that's a strategy that multiple carriers are enacting on.
That's adding a whole different opportunity set base for our Wireless business that we're pretty excited about both for 2016 and into the future.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
The next question is from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
José a quick follow-up.
As I've gone across the goals for different utilities there seems to be sort of a new emphasis on maybe doing more wind et cetera – more renewables but specifically wind I've heard it on several calls.
Would love to get your thoughts around that as you head into next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think our commentary around it was very positive right.
We're having with – if you back out our Canadian project we're actually having an excellent year in that business both from a revenue perspective and more importantly a margin perspective.
We also said in today's prepared commentary that we think that that business could grow upwards of 10% next year and the reason we're saying that is because we're seeing the amount of activity related to that.
So you are right I mean the amount of activity that we're seeing today we probably haven't seen since 2012 which was a huge year for us in that business.
And we're excited about that.
We've obviously got a lot of work to do there but opportunity set there is – looks a lot more like 2012 than it does any other year we've had recently.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And José if I add up everything that you just said on a segment-by-segment basis I mean are your revenues for next year – and I know you don't want to give guidance – but you kind of have on the revenue side.
It seems like revenues of $5 billion assuming all these trends stay intact possible? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We expect to have a really good year in 2016.
I think we've been saying that for a couple quarters.
I know we haven't been helping ourselves in 2015 which your first comment of the day it's been a long year.
It has been a long year.
We're looking forward to getting it behind us because we're pretty excited about our future.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks José.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Mas at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
I'd like to thank everybody for participating today.
We recognize it's been a tough year.
Again we're looking forward to getting it behind us updating you on our next call as we actually enter into 2016.
So thank you for your continued interest.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to MasTec's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call initially broadcast on February 26 2016.
Let me remind participants that today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Marc Lewis MasTec's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dana and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MasTec's year-end 2015 earnings conference call.
The following statement is made pursuant to the safe harbor for forward-looking statements described in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In these communications we may make certain statements that are forward-looking such as statements regarding MasTec's future results plans and anticipated trends in the industries where we operate.
These forward-looking statements are the company's expectations on the day of the initial broadcast of this conference call and the company does not undertake to update these expectations based on subsequent events or knowledge.
Various risks uncertainties and assumptions are detailed in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may differ significantly from results expressed or implied in these communications.
In today's remarks by management we will be discussing continuing operations and adjusted financial metrics as discussed and reconciled in yesterday's press release and supporting schedules.
In addition we may use certain non-GAAP financial measures in this conference call.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measure not reconciled in these comments to the most comparable GAAP financial measure can be found in our earnings press release our 10-K or in the Investors and News section of our website located at mastec.com.
With us today we have José Mas our Chief Executive Officer; and George Pita our EVP and Chief Financial Officer.
The format of the call will be opening remarks and analysis by José followed by a financial review from George.
These discussions will be followed by a question-and-answer period and we expect the call to last about 60 minutes.
We have a lot of important things to talk about today especially the 2016 outlook so I'll now turn the call over to José.
José? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Marc.
Good morning and welcome to MasTec's 2015 year-end call.
Today I will be reviewing our fourth quarter and full year results as well as providing my outlook for 2016 and the markets we serve.
Before getting into details I'd like to make some observations about 2015.
The best thing about 2015 is that it's over.
It was a difficult year.
We experienced significant organic revenue declines in our Oil and Gas segments and in our wireless operations.
These declines negatively impacted full year margins.
We also dealt with the effects of our audit committee investigation which led to disruption in our Electrical Transmission segment where we also experienced significant revenue declines coupled with very poor financial results.
2015 was a very disappointing year.
However there are many reasons to be very optimistic about our future.
First despite very challenging environments in both our Communications and Oil and Gas segments in 2015 we were able to deliver fairly strong margins in those segments.
Margins in our Communications segment were actually up year-over-year despite significant organic revenue declines in our wireless business.
In our Oil and Gas segment we held margins within 80 basis points despite a nearly 20% organic revenue decline.
Our margins are significantly impacted by utilization levels and as volume and demand goes up we should see a corresponding benefit to margins.
Second as I will discuss later we are seeing and winning on an unprecedented level of opportunities across a number of our segments.
Third we have conservatively managed our capital structure.
We were able to reduce overall debt levels in 2015 despite a $100 million stock buyback and we have significant liquidity to take advantage of the opportunities in front of us.
And finally we have continued to invest in building a great team and culture.
We have strong strategic relationships with our customers and we look forward to having the opportunity to significantly grow our business over the next few years.
Now some full year highlights.
2015 revenue was $4.2 billion.
2015 adjusted EBITDA was $308 million.
Full year cash flow from operations was $367 million.
And for the fourth quarter revenue was $1.03 billion and fourth quarter continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $82 million.
Again we're glad 2015 is behind us and we're looking forward to 2016.
We strongly believe that we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of the opportunities our market affords us.
Now I'd like to cover some industry specifics.
Our Communications revenue for the fourth quarter was $521 million versus $561 million last year and $1.973 billion for the year compared to $2.041 billion last year.
Our wireless revenues were down over 30% organically for the year offset by increases in both our wireline and installation revenues for the year.
Despite our reduced revenue levels EBITDA margins were actually up over 50 basis points from 2014.
We expect both revenue growth and margin improvement in this segment in 2016.
Our install-to-the-home revenue was up for the full year sequentially and up 10% in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year comparison.
Demand for our services is strong and we're very proud of our efforts in expanding and diversifying this business in 2015.
We believe we are the largest third-party independent fulfillment company in the United States with broad geographic coverage.
We feel this gives us a strong competitive advantage and we are excited about a number of different opportunities with both existing and new customers who are looking for nationwide fulfillment services.
As it relates to wireline projects revenues were up nearly 25% year-over-year.
We have significant opportunities for continued expansion.
Opportunities related to gigabit projects continue to grow and we expect significant revenue growth as we expand into a number of new geographies servicing our customers.
During 2015 our revenues associated with gigabit work were primarily driven by two markets.
For 2016 and beyond we have now secured work in 14 markets in nine states for multiple customers.
Our wireless revenues as expected were down year-over-year.
Despite the significant organic revenue decline EBITDA margins were actually up year-over-year.
We believe that as revenue normalizes and our expected growth materializes that we will be able to further leverage and grow margins.
One of our strengths and differentiators in this business is our vast geographic coverage.
As carriers increase CapEx we are extremely well-positioned to benefit from that growth.
Data usage and demand is expected to continue to grow at exponential levels requiring our customers to increase their networks' capacities.
We're also encouraged about the FCC move to the Connect America Fund which has stimulated new spend by carriers to bring wireless broadband to rural America.
This includes initiatives such as wireless local loop which will have a very positive impact on our business.
We're also seeing the first investments in 5G technology.
While very early in the cycle there is no question that wireless carriers understand the need and importance for increasing data speeds.
With the significant investment and advancements being made in wireline Internet speeds it is only a matter of time before customers demand and carriers replicate those speeds in the wireless environment.
As an example one of the carrier's CEOs recently said that 5G testing is producing speeds 10 times to 100 times faster than 4G LTE.
Revenue in our Electrical Transmission business was down 50% in the fourth quarter and down 28% for the year.
We significantly underperformed in this segment relative to our expectations.
We had a couple of projects that had delayed starts and underperformed on others.
Our primary focus today is on getting this business back to a profitable level.
We have taken significant steps at right-sizing this business and setting a higher level of accountability.
While we are in the midst of a challenging market we have the backlog and awards to return this business to a profitable level.
We have evaluated every project and spent a significant amount of time and energy going through detailed estimates to complete.
Subsequent to quarter-end we were awarded a 70-mile 765-kilowatt project that will start in the second quarter.
This is an important win that will help increase the segment's backlog in the first quarter.
Despite our internal challenges we continue to be well-positioned for the growing opportunities in this market and we look forward to getting back on track and over time executing at previous historical levels.
Moving to our Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue was up about 7% for the year.
With the exception of the Canadian wind farm margin performance for this segment was much improved in 2015 and we expect to have a solid year in 2016.
During the fourth quarter Congress extended the wind production tax credits until 2020.
We expect a robust renewable environment over the next few years.
Our Oil and Gas Pipeline segment organic revenues were down nearly 20% in 2015.
Despite this drop EBITDA margins were 10.5% versus 11.3% for the year.
It's important to note that EBITDA margins for this segment for the second half of 2015 were 12.4%.
As we have been saying over the last few quarters we are incredibly bullish and excited about our Oil and Gas segment.
While we're cognizant of the potential headwinds in the industry and understand that commodity prices will definitely impact the industry we feel we are uniquely positioned to experience considerable growth over the next few years.
Let me elaborate and cover where we see both strength and weakness in the market.
There are two areas of primary weakness.
First we have seen and continue to expect gathering opportunities to be limited and slowing due to the weakness in commodity prices and lower rig counts.
It's important to note that gathering comprises a small percentage of our Oil and Gas work and thus is not expected to have a material impact on MasTec.
We also expect to see continued weakness in our Canadian Oil and Gas business.
We expect 2016 Canadian revenues to decline more than 30% from 2015.
Between currency weakening and the softness in the market Canada has been a challenge.
We do however strongly believe in the market's long-term potential.
This slowdown will see a number of our competitors vanish and we will be ready to gain market share once the market returns to a more normal level.
Now the strengths.
In the U.S.
while some shales may see some short-term weakness the level of mainline activity is unprecedented.
As demonstrated in our backlog we signed over $1.4 billion worth of projects in the fourth quarter.
This was primarily driven by our anticipated work on the Dakota Access Pipeline where we will be constructing six spreads.
We also expect further awards similar in value to be awarded in the coming quarters for work to be performed in 2017 and 2018.
Months ago I did not believe the capacity existed to build the level of demand in our industry.
While I still expect it to be challenge we are seeing some projects get pushed out.
While some may view this as a negative it is actually leading to project visibility all the way into 2020 something which I just find amazing.
This level of activity is offsetting the weakness in the shales due to commodity prices and giving contractors ample time years for commodity prices to rebound.
Finally some shales will be impacted more than others.
For example the amount of infrastructure being built to support initiatives dealing with providing natural resources to Mexico is just beginning.
In fact it's the low-price environment that is actually spurring the activity to Mexico.
We expect these to be the main drivers of our growth in our Oil and Gas segment and expect significant revenue growth supported by both our recent wins and backlog in both 2016 and beyond.
To recap 2015 was a very difficult year.
We're disappointed with our results and expect more from ourselves.
With that said we have an opportunity to make 2016 a great year.
As we announced in yesterday's release the Board of Directors of MasTec has authorized a $100 million share repurchase program.
While we will be mindful of our overall debt levels and business conditions before we initiate any purchases this authorization provides us the ability to be opportunistic if business and market conditions warrant share repurchases in the long-term interest of our shareholders.
Finally I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the men and women of MasTec for their commitment to safety their hard work and their sacrifices.
Our people are our most important asset and it's because of them that we have all of these wonderful opportunities ahead of us.
I'll now turn the call over to George for our financial review.
George? Thank you José and good morning everyone.
Today I'm going to cover fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results including cash flow liquidity and capital structure as well as our guidance range views for 2016.
As in our previous calls discussion of our financial results and guidance will include non-GAAP continuing operations adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA.
As Marc already mentioned reconciliations of all non-GAAP measures can be found in our press release on our website or in our SEC filings.
As José mentioned 2015 was a challenging year from an earnings perspective due to the combination of both internal and external factors.
That said we managed our balance sheet well during this difficult period as reflected by our record cash flow from operating activities improved working capital metrics and overall debt level reduction.
As we look forward to 2016 while we are cognizant of the concerns focused on continued oil price volatility and weakness we also have to recognize and acknowledge our record level of backlog of approximately $5.7 billion which gives us confidence that 2016 results will improve greatly when compared to 2015's levels.
Here are some takeaways for the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter 2015 revenue was approximately $1 billion a 17% decrease when compared to $1.2 billion for the same period last year.
While overall fourth quarter revenues was in line with our expectation we exceeded our revenue expectations in the Communications and Oil and Gas segments and underperformed in the Electrical Transmission segment.
Communications revenue exceeded expectations primarily in wireline fiber operations and Oil and Gas segment revenue exceeded expectations due to improved project productivity.
Electrical Transmission segment underperformed due to the combination of new project startup delays and project inefficiencies.
Fourth quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings were $0.21 per share compared to our guidance of $0.10 to $0.17 per share and $0.38 per share last year.
Fourth quarter 2015 continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $82 million compared to our guidance range of $70 million to $80 million and $110 million last year.
Cash flow from operating activities during the quarter was approximately $107 million and for the full year 2015 we generated approximately $367 million which represents a record level for MasTec.
Coupled with the moderation of our capital spend in 2015 our free cash flow calculated as $367 million in cash flow from operating activities less net cash capital additions inclusive of sales of property and equipment of approximately $70 million was $297 million an increase of $67 million or 29% over 2014's levels.
This strong cash flow allowed us to reduce our overall debt levels during the full year 2015 period by approximately 10% or $112 million with an overall debt reduction of approximately $192 million during the second half of the year.
We accomplished this debt reduction despite reduced 2015 earnings levels and the execution of $100 million share repurchase program during 2015.
Our DSOs as of year-end 2015 were 68 days which is an 18-day improvement compared to 2014 year-end levels.
While 2015 was a difficult year on a number of fronts we are proud of our performance in managing cash flow during this challenging period.
Now let me get into some detail regarding fourth quarter results.
As I mentioned earlier fourth quarter 2015 results were slightly above our guidance range with continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share at $0.21 versus our guidance of $0.10 to $0.17 per share.
Continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $82 million or 8% of revenue compared to our guidance of $70 million to $80 million.
Due to better than expected performance in our Oil and Gas segment the benefit of lower expected earn-out liabilities and a lower adjusted tax rate fourth quarter adjusted results exceeded our guidance despite the drag from larger than expected Electrical Transmission segment losses.
During the fourth quarter as we do every quarter we reviewed expected earn-out liability payments based on service line performance.
We initially record an earn-out liability estimate at the time of acquisition and as these estimates increase or decrease over time based on the performance of the service line we record any changes both positive or negative as corporate other income or expense.
During the fourth quarter we update our estimates of earn-out liabilities and due to 2015 underperformance reduce these estimates by approximately $12 million as required by generally accepted accounting principles.
Fourth quarter Communications segment revenue decreased $39 million comprised of decreases in wireless project services partially offset by increases in wireline fiber and install-to-the-home services.
Communications segment EBITDA margins were 10.2% an increase both sequentially and over last year's fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter Oil and Gas segment revenue decreased 19% compared to last year with all of the decrease due to weaker Western Canadian operations.
Despite the decline in revenues Oil and Gas fourth quarter EBITDA margins were strong at 12.3% of revenue due to improved project productivity within U.S.
operations during the quarter.
During the fourth quarter our Electrical Transmissions segment underperformed to our expectations with a 50% decrease in revenue compared to last year and EBITDA losses of approximately $24 million.
We had expected that this segment's revenue would increase sequentially in the fourth quarter but due to the combination of delays on several expected project starts to the first quarter of 2016 and a $14 million project fade experienced during the quarter on a current project Electrical Transmission segment performance was substantially below expectations.
The $14 million project margin fade reflected in the fourth quarter occurred primarily due to increased costs which are now anticipated to be incurred in order to maintain expected project completion schedule.
Based on these actions we believe project production is now on schedule for a December 2016 completion date and the project is running at a low single-digit project margin.
While the project remains profitable the anticipated profit margins decreased during the fourth quarter which resulted in negative gross margin during the quarter.
Fourth quarter Power Generation and Industrial revenue was approximately $79 million and EBITDA margins were 6.2% of revenues which represents a 100-basis point improvement over the same period last year.
During the fourth quarter we recorded approximately $8 million in a project loss related to our non-controlled Canadian joint venture which was constructing a bridge in Western Canada.
That joint venture which is managed by a third party and automatically terminates after completion of the project has experienced continued delays in delivery of the key material before a manufacturer which has negatively impacted the construction schedule of the bridge and caused additional project costs.
We have no substantive direct work involvement in the project which we acquired as part of the Pacer acquisition in 2014.
While we have reflected the full amount of our proportional share of this project's losses we are actively pursuing several alternatives for potential recovery.
As this project loss does not relate to any current MasTec operations we are excluding it from our adjusted results.
During the fourth quarter we recorded a noncash goodwill and intangible asset impairment related to the Pacer acquisition of approximately $78 million.
This charge reflects the weakness in Western Canadian Oil Sand facilities construction primarily due to oil price volatility over the past year.
While we expect Pacer operations to generate positive EBITDA in 2016 and beyond the expected levels did not support the full carrying value of our intangible assets and thus we recorded an adjustment to reduce these amounts to estimated fair value.
We are currently in the process of finalizing actions to right-size our Western Canadian operations and anticipate that we will incur approximately $3 million to $5 million in onetime restructuring costs during the first quarter of 2016.
Finally in the fourth quarter of 2015 the company recorded approximately $4 million in unrealized fair market value adjustments related to an interest rate hedge entered into by our Waha joint venture which will build own and operate two gas pipelines in Texas to the Mexican border.
The joint venture prudently entered into a hedge contract to fix what were variable interest rates related to the joint venture's project financing and the accounting policy chosen by the joint venture partner requires that any unrealized change in the fair market value of the hedge flows through the income statement regardless of the fact that the joint venture intends to hold this hedge in place throughout the life of the project.
Accordingly these noncash fair market value adjustments gains or losses will be excluded from our adjusted results on a go-forward basis.
In summary despite the fourth quarter underperformance in our Electrical Transmission segment our adjusted fourth quarter results were slightly above our expectations.
Turning to full year results full year 2015 revenue was $4.2 billion a 9% decrease compared to $4.6 billion last year.
Full year 2015 continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.64 and continuing operations adjusted EBITDA was $308 million or 7.3% of revenue.
As I think this bears repeating full year 2015 cash flow from operating activities grew to a record level of $367 million and our 2015 free cash flow increased by $67 million.
In terms of segment performance for the full year 2015 period the Communications segment reported a mid-30% organic decrease in wireless project activity but yet was able to report a 50-basis point improvement in full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA margins at 10.8% of revenues.
During the year we successfully integrated WesTower solidifying ourselves amongst the nation's largest wireless construction service providers and significantly expanding our geographic footprint.
Full year 2015 Oil and Gas segment revenue decreased 14% driven primarily by our Western Canadian operations which declined due to both reduced project demand related to oil price reductions and foreign exchange impacts.
Despite the revenue declines the Oil and Gas segment reported full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA margins of 10.5% of revenue.
In addition 2015 results were also negatively impacted versus the prior year by lower levels of large diameter long-haul U.S.
pipeline activity.
As we have indicated and our year-end backlog confirms we anticipate a major increase in U.S.
long-haul pipeline activity during 2016.
Electrical Transmission segment results for the full year 2015 included a 28% decrease in revenue with adjusted EBITDA losses of $59 million.
While this segment significantly underperformed in 2015 due to the combination of internal and external factors we continue to believe that the causes of this underperformance are largely behind us and expect annual 2016 earnings results to improve.
We expect that 2016 annual revenue in this segment will decrease in the mid-teens range when compared to 2015 levels but also expect that 2016 annual EBITDA margins will improve to a profit in the low single-digit range.
While this expected 2016 performance would generate a significant improvement when compared to 2015's losses it should be noted that we view 2016 in this segment as a transitional rebuilding year with expected continued improvement in end market conditions and segment execution in 2017 and beyond.
Lastly I'll note for illustrative purposes of the impact improved results may have on 2016 that if Electrical Transmission segment operations are excluded from our adjusted 2015 results the balance of MasTec operations reported revenue of approximately $3.9 billion with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $367 million which represents a 9.5% adjusted EBITDA margin rate for the full year 2015 period.
And these results are despite organic revenue declines caused by difficult end market conditions in Oil and Gas and wireless.
Full year 2015 Power Generation and Industrial segment revenue grew approximately 7% to $382 million.
Full year EBITDA for this segment was approximately $9 million or 2.3% of revenue.
As we have previously indicated 2015 EBITDA margin for this segment was negatively impacted by a $21 million loss on a Canadian wind farm project which negatively impacted annual segment EBITDA margins by approximately 5%.
This project was completed in 2015.
Excluding the impact of this project loss 2015 EBITDA margin for this segment would have approximated 7% of revenue a strong level for this segment.
Now I will discuss summary of our top ten largest customers for full year 2015 as a percentage of revenue.
AT&amp;T revenues derived from wireless wireline and install-to-the-home security services was approximately 18% and DIRECTV services were approximately 14%.
On a combined basis these four separate service offerings total 32%.
Energy Transfer was 7%.
Momentum Midstream was 6%.
MidAmerican Energy and Duke Energy were each 3%.
And Sprint Plains All American Pipeline CNRL Verizon and an unnamed wireline customer were all at 2%.
Individual construction projects comprised 52% of our annual revenue with master service agreements comprising 48% and this mix is generally in line with recent trends.
At year-end 2015 our 18 month backlog from continuing operations was approximately $5.7 billion compared with $4.6 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2015 and $4.3 billion for the fourth quarter of 2014.
This represents record levels for MasTec and is a 24% increase sequentially and a 31% increase over last year.
Backlog growth was led by the Oil and Gas segment which grew 115% to a record level of $2 billion.
We indicated during our last call that we had approximately $1.5 billion in Oil and Gas awards in the process of being signed during the fourth quarter and our year-end backlog levels reflects these completed awards.
As we have indicated despite all the current negativity that surrounds oil and gas related services we fully expect 2016 to be a record year for our Oil and Gas segment.
Now let me talk about our fiscal year cash flow liquidity and capital structure.
As we have previously noted our long-term capital structure is solid with low rates and no significant near-term maturities and we have an excellent bank group.
We had a record level of 2015 cash flows from operating activities at $367 million and significantly increased free cash flow as well despite execution of a $100 million share repurchase program during 2015 and a challenging earnings performance.
We enter 2016 with approximately $500 million of liquidity calculated as cash plus availability in our senior credit – revolving credit facility giving us flexibility and resources to support growth opportunities in 2016 and beyond.
Regarding our capital structure at year-end we had approximately $1 billion in net debt which reflects approximately $112 million of deleveraging during the year or a 10% decrease in total net debt.
As we look forward into 2016 we expect significant revenue and EBITDA growth which will require an increased investment in working capital.
That said we also expect that our 2016 operations will generate sufficient cash flow in amounts whereby execution of the $100 million share repurchase program announced yesterday should not meaningfully change our overall year-end 2016 debt levels from where we are today.
Thus as we look forward towards the end of 2016 the combination of a similar debt level combined with anticipated improved 2016 earnings should generate a significant improvement in our 2016 year-end leverage metrics when compared to 2015.
Our 2015 fourth quarter accounts receivable days outstanding or DSOs were 68 days compared to 86 days last year an 18-day improvement year-over-year.
The improvement was driven by a combination of improved collection performance across all major segments and segment mix.
Looking forward into 2016 we expect that our DSOs will range somewhere in the mid to high 70 days depending on the timing of project closeouts.
Regarding our spending on equipment full year 2015 cash CapEx net of equipment disposals was $70 million compared to $92 million in 2014.
The total of our full year cash CapEx capital leases and financed equipment net of disposals was $97 million in 2015 compared to $168 million in 2014 a 42% reduction.
Moving on to our 2016 outlook we are cognizant of the concerns centering around the potential impacts of continued oil price volatility and weakness.
That said our record backlog of recently signed contracts is unprecedented for the company.
Based on current market conditions our full year 2016 revenue guidance range is estimated between $4.6 billion and $4.8 billion and continuing operations adjusted EBITDA at $415 million to $430 million and continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.35 to $1.45.
The 2016 revenue range represents a 9% to 14% increase over 2015 with a projected 35% to 40% increase in continuing operations adjusted EBITDA and a 111% to 127% increase in continuing operations adjusted diluted earnings per share.
We expect 2016 operations adjusted EBITDA margins to approximate 9% of revenue compared to 7.3% of revenue in 2015 with this increase driven by improved margin performance across Communications Oil and Gas and Electrical Transmission.
And as I indicated earlier given the impact of Electrical Transmission segment losses in 2015 a normalized low-single digit EBITDA margin on this segment should generate significant improvement in 2016 EBITDA margins when compared to 2015.
We expect 2016 interest levels will approximate $51 million a slight increase over 2015 levels due to projected increases in interest rates during the year and higher usage of our letter of credit facilities as we support our expanded large project activity in 2016.
Interest expense estimates do not include the impact of any potential share repurchase activity in 2016.
We currently expect 2016 depreciation and amortization expense will grow at a slower pace than overall revenue and expect better equipment utilization in 2016 as we support expanded large project activity.
We anticipate that 2016 depreciation and amortization on a rate basis will approximate 3.6% to 3.8% of revenue.
We also expect that 2016 CapEx levels will increase some from 2015 levels with cash CapEx net of disposals of approximately $70 million to $80 million and another $70 million to $80 million of capital leases and equipment financing for a total CapEx net of disposals of $140 million to $160 million.
We anticipate that our 2016 income tax rate will approximate 42% based on lower levels of expected Canadian income due to difficult market conditions.
Our estimate for full year 2016 share count for diluted EPS is about 81.5 million shares and 81.1 million shares for the first quarter of 2016.
These share count estimates do not include the impact of potential share repurchase activity in 2016.
We currently estimate 2016 first quarter revenue of approximately $950 million with continuing operations adjusted EBITDA of approximately 5% to 6% of revenue in the range of $50 million to $55 million.
We expect 2016 first quarter continuing operations adjusted diluted results per share to range between a breakeven level to a loss of $0.03 per share.
And as many of you are aware our first quarter is seasonally our lowest quarter in terms of revenue and overall profit.
This guidance reflects a slow earnings starts to the year particularly in Oil and Gas and wireless as we prepare ourselves for significantly increased volume levels starting later in the year.
In terms of some color on the expected timing of our 2016 performance we would expect that revenue during the first half of 2016 will approximate 2015's first half levels with first half – with second half revenue growth rate exceeding our annual 2016 growth rate.
This is based on expected ramp-ups in both Oil and Gas long-haul project startups late in the second quarter of 2016 as well as increased second half 2016 wireless project activity.
Based on the expected seasonality of 2016 revenue we would expect only a slight increase in first half 2016 EBITDA margin rates compared to the same period last year with higher expected second half 2016 adjusted EBITDA and margin rates due to increased utilization of overheads as revenue level significantly ramps up.
In summary despite the headwinds we ended 2015 with record cash flow generation.
We entered 2016 with improving market opportunities in multiple markets and record backlog that supports our optimism to take advantage of the growth opportunities ahead of us.
We expect that 2016 will be a rebound year where we get back on track with strong top line growth and improved profit and margins.
That concludes my results – my remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Thank you.
And we'll go first to Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning and thanks.
My first question or – my first question here is on the Oil and Gas segment.
And there given the backlog increase and your expectations clearly for this business I think a discussion about how well permitted projects that you're anticipating to contribute to this year's earnings – given that it's somewhat back-end loaded in guidance we would like to know how well permitted they are or what hurdles need to be accomplished before those things can go into the ground.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think we're in good shape.
We're anticipating starting on most of our projects late in the second quarter.
I think when you take our total backlog numbers relative to the size of the awards and you look at our guidance I think we've made some assumptions around some of the work probably being delayed.
I think we've got some conservative assumptions built into our Oil and Gas guidance based on that because we're typically seeing delays of a couple months on most projects.
But right now I mean our customers are telling us that we're on schedule we're on time to expect things not to really move out much and we're excited about that and that's what we're managing to.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
My second question has to do with the Communications segment and specifically the AT&amp;T and DIRECTV merger.
I don't know if you guys have addressed this on a prior conference call but there is a concern out there that there will be truck roll consolidation and I'd like to hear your perspectives on that? And what if anything you're hearing from the folks at DIRECTV with the potential consolidation with their new parent? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look we feel good about our business.
There's no question that I think AT&amp;T is trying and actually doing a very good job at growing the DIRECTV base.
I think that's creating more work.
There's two workforces that obviously came together.
One was the existing workforce that was doing DIRECTV like us and others and then AT&amp;T was doing some of their U-verse installs.
I think as you look at the total pie today the positive is the pie is growing and I think the need for more work ultimately exists which I think is good for both parties.
I think it's good for us.
There are a number of new opportunities on the install side including things like wireless local loop that I think will have some solid long-term opportunities.
So right now we're – look we're excited about our business.
It's growing.
We had a very good fourth quarter in that business.
We're having a really strong start to the year and we don't expect anything to really change.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to Matt Duncan with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Nice job this quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> José I want to stick with the Communications business first and just look at sort of the various pieces of that business and what your expectations are for this year.
It sounds like you guys are thinking all pieces of that business probably grow this year.
But if you can maybe break it down and look a little bit more at the components of growth and how much that segment ought to be up in total I think that would be very helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look I think for guidance purposes we're probably growing the overall Communications sector at about 5%.
The reality is you're right we expect each one of those subunits to actually be up year-over-year.
We've talked about our wireline business and the opportunities that gigabit affords us.
We expect to grow that business.
We've got some real good opportunities to grow our wireless business.
And for the first time in a couple years we think we've got a nice shot at growing our installation business.
So if we talked about each opportunity we could come up with a bigger number.
And again I think based on what we've had to live with in the last two years again we're taking very conservative views around what our customers are telling us.
And to the extent that things pan out the way we hope they do then I think we've got some further opportunities to have more growth in that business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then you got into a little bit into my second question there which is really just looking at how you guys arrived at this guidance? I know last year was a difficult year.
Obviously none of us want to see the difficulties that you had meeting guidance last year again this year so I think we all want to get a little bit of a comfort level that there's conservatism built into this guidance for each individual piece.
And when you roll it up it therefore could be maybe more materially conservative if you're able to execute if projects don't get delayed to very far beyond your expectations.
So just can you talk a little bit about the guidance philosophy this year? And how you came to these numbers to give yourself confidence there could be upside if you're able to execute? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
First and foremost I think we've put solid guide – a solid guide out there.
I think coming off the year we're coming off if these are the results that we generate we would be proud of them.
We think it's a very strong rebound year.
Obviously there's a lot of noise in our industry which is forcing us to take a very conservative view as we look at a number of our different businesses.
If things pan out again the way we hope they do across the – a bunch of our segments the opportunity for us to do considerably better exists.
But I think in – relative to again all of the noise that's out there all of the concerns I think we've taken a very conservative view on a segment-by-segment level as to what a very realistic target is.
And then we obviously have our own internal goals and metrics that we're going to chase that are a little bit different.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
I'll hop back in queue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
How are you? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good thanks.
So just to focus in on Oil and Gas a little bit more José you talked about seeing some pushouts on long-haul pipeline awards that you think are actually extending visibility in that business.
So can you talk about your confidence level that those projects that are getting pushed out actually do ultimately go forward over the next couple of years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I think there are a lot of projects out there a lot of projects that some people track.
I know everybody is – it's interesting because everybody is tracking all these different pipeline trackers these days some of which make a lot of sense and some are – which are accurate and some which we look at and we're very skeptical of.
So we have our own list that we track.
We track it very closely.
We are in constant dialog with a lot of customers.
I can tell you that the projects that we're tracking we're highly confident are going to go forward for lots of reasons and we're not going to get into specifics.
I think there are some projects out there that are more questionable.
And as we look at projects that we expect to be performed we see projects that are going to be performed in 2016 2017 2018 and 2019 and again we come from a world where we've been living in for years which is pretty much we're worried about booking backlog for the work that we're going to be doing in three months to six months.
We're talking to customers and actually entering into agreements where we're talking about what we're going to be doing in 2018 and 2019.
Again I think that's remarkable.
I think it's a very different place than where we've historically been.
I think it has to do with the fact that so much has to get done.
There is a shift in the business no question.
We're going to see some weakness in some shales across the country; it's going to affect people and we're trying to position ourselves to really not be impacted by that and hopefully as that comes back over time hopefully there's less players in the industry and the ones that are left enjoy more success and I think that's ultimately what we're going to see in the next couple years.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then just following up on that on conversations you're having with customers about these projects I guess with oil and gas backlog now at record levels how should we think about your opportunity or your chances of meaningfully growing backlog from here over the next couple of quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a good question because I think it's going to be lumpy on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
We're going to have quarters where we generate a lot of work and maybe we win something big in that quarter maybe we don't.
Unequivocally I can say that on a full-year basis and I can't tell you whether that's going to be Q1 Q2 or Q3 or Q4 we expect backlog to dramatically grow in 2016 from where – from levels that it's at today.
So we expect further dramatic growth of backlog in 2016.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
We'll go next to William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Good morning José George Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Bill.
Good morning.
Hey.
Congratulations on finishing up 2015 first and foremost.
I'd like to go right to the Oil and Gas segment.
You provided us with some color on Communications for 2016 in terms of growth.
Oil and Gas we're expecting a very significant second half.
Can you give us a since of what are we looking at there in terms of growth for Oil and Gas? And more importantly can you give us some insight on the pricing of what you're booking currently? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I think just based on where the projects are lining up we're obviously expecting much larger second half of 2016 than we do first half.
If you go back a couple years we had – prior to the Pacer acquisition I think we generated about $500 million in one particular quarter in our Oil and Gas segment.
So I think that we've demonstrated historically that we're able to deliver that kind of revenue in a particular period.
I would say today we've got a lot more resources and our expectation would be that we should be able to deliver a much greater number than that today in one particular quarter.
Obviously if you start annualizing those kind of numbers the numbers get really big and hopefully over time we're going to be able to demonstrate that on a consistent basis.
So we feel we're in relatively good shape in order to be able to deliver on what is a somewhat back-ended loaded year in our Oil and Gas business and the size of that will be somewhat dependent in terms of how much work we actually get to complete in 2016.
So there's obviously one view that we've created from a guidance perspective and hopefully there'll be another view relative to what our customers are going to demand and ask us to do.
We're ready to be able to meet both of those.
From a pricing perspective look it's a tight industry.
Everybody knows there's a lot of work.
There are only so many people that can get this work done and I think that bodes well for the industry.
I don't think pricing is an issue at all in today's industry and quite frankly I don't think it's been an issue.
I think the bigger issue has been utilization in the extent of trying to keep your people busy consistently over time.
And if you can do that then I think it has a very positive effect on margins which is really what we're trying to accomplish.
Okay.
My follow-up would be on the labor front.
Do you feel as though labor is contained throughout? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I do.
And I think – and I think we're in an advantageous position in that we're going to get a fairly early start in the cycle and be in a position to somewhat have the pick of the litter.
I think if we can do that and obviously I think people enjoy our culture.
I think people enjoy working here.
And to the extent that we can do a good job we'll be able to keep those people throughout the full cycle.
And where is MasTec with that? Are you hiring in certain segments and restructuring others? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well obviously right? I mean we've got some segments that are performing very well and some segments that aren't.
So in those that aren't we're right-sizing them.
We're trying to get lean and mean and prepare ourselves for the opportunities in front of us.
And we obviously have some segments that are going to grow drastically over where they were last year.
And we're preparing in that as well.
Great José.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Bill.
We'll take our next question from Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and congrats on a nice quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to follow-up on the back-end loaded outlook this year.
Could you comment on how dependent is that on expected awards versus more the scheduling of what's already in backlog? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So two things Matt.
First I know we keep getting congratulated on 2015.
I just want to reiterate that for us we're not happy at all about 2015.
It was a rough year.
We kind of just survived it.
So I don't want to make light of that.
It was a tough year and we've got to do a lot better.
As it relates to Oil and Gas which I think is where we expect the biggest jump in revenues it's about backlog execution.
We've actually got some stuff that we'll backlog here in the coming quarter that will be executed in 2016 but for the most part for us to achieve the numbers that we expect to achieve it's about executing existing backlog.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And the follow-up to that as you said 2015 challenging particularly in Electric Transmission.
I guess could you talk about kind of the trajectory of getting back to profitability there this year? And is this project that you mentioned starting up next quarter should that get you there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well look I think it's going to be a much better year.
Obviously we expect to be profitable in 2016 which is a big change from where we were in 2015.
We're hoping it happens really early in the year but we've been somewhat surprised so again I think we're taking a little bit of a conservative view.
We absolutely expect the first quarter to be dramatically better than anything we saw in 2015 especially in the second half so I think we'll get close in Q1.
I think we'll definitely get there in the second quarter and we'll see how good we can make it in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks José.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Matt.
We'll go next to Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
José I was just curious as you talk about the backlog and looking forward in 2016 maybe even as you extend a little bit into 2017 do you see the seasonality of the sector kind of maybe smoothing out a little more too? Because it seems like a lot of this big work is going to obviously spill into 2017 and I assume that's going to mean that the beginning of the year is still going to be busier than the last few.
Would that be a fair statement? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes it is.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And George this may be for you.
Just curious on the buy-back.
Is there anything on the credit facility or anything that restricts that or is that just able to be used whenever you guys see that that's a good opportunity? Yeah there's no restrictions on the facility for the buy-back.
We have – we're able to execute the $100 million without any restriction.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I'll hand it back.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning John.
José just following up on the transmission side for a second – appreciate your comments but in terms of your mix in that business right now have you re-thought how much of that you're going to pursue long-haul transmission projects or regional projects versus how you thought about that business a couple years ago? Because we heard a lot of stories about just the market isn't what it used to be.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well so let me take a step back right? Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We actually grew that business and did really well in that business on the back of bigger projects.
And that's really where we as an organization focused always with the intent of – and the understanding that we were going to have to really build out a much more diverse offering and geographically diverse offering which I think – by the way I think we've actually had some good success at it.
So if you look at especially a lot of our wins in the tail end of last year we're starting to do a lot more regional type work.
We're actually having okay success at that.
It's not maybe at the margins that we were historically doing on larger projects but albeit at decent margins.
So I think we've got a fairly nice mix in our work.
I think we're – we've got much better geographic coverage that I think puts us in a position to compete on larger projects as they come in those geographies a little bit better than we historically did.
Again we had a tough year.
It's hard to dissect 2015 without really getting into a lot of details to get an understanding as to why we have confidence relative to 2016.
We tried in our remarks to at least give a very clear indication that we've spent a lot of time on that business on a project-by-project basis understanding exactly what we've got for 2016 understanding what our opportunities are and what we can ultimately achieve from a margin perspective.
So we feel relatively comfortable that we're obviously going into 2016 with our eyes wide open.
We think we've got some really solid opportunities to turn it around very quickly and more importantly to start building back a base of business that we can ultimately hope to get to historical levels which I think as the business rebounds a little bit – and by the way it will rebound.
I mean there's a significant amount of work that will be coming in that industry.
We're unfortunately in a lull.
But we've got to position ourselves internally to be able to win and execute on that work over a longer period of time.
So the – I mean is your expectation – it sounds like that this can get back to being a $450 million or $500 million business at some point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the Communications side of the business you've talked in the past about spreading out your customer base there and as you look out especially into the back half of 2016 or 2017 some of the programs that are out there how do you think about customer concentration in that market and your expectations there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's one of our big successes in 2015 right was our ability to create relationships with new customers grow our business with new customers.
Communications is obviously a big sector but in our install business we started the Sprint Direct 2 You program which I thought was a nice differentiated product.
We've got some opportunities right now to further expand our customer base there with some pretty unique and interesting things.
On our wireline side we've grown our gigabit business with multiple customers.
I think that's going to bode well for us not only in 2016 but quite frankly probably more importantly in 2017 and 2018.
When you look at our wireless business I think we did a good job of growing different customer base.
We're doing a lot more work for the tower companies.
So I think we had a fairly good year in that and I think we're going to continue to work hard at that.
There are some large carriers that are going to have some big spends that didn't spend a lot and haven't spent a lot over the last 12 months to 18 months.
I think that's going to turn.
And when it does I think we're super well-positioned to benefit from that as well.
So I think there's some good things a that we've done; and b more importantly that are on the horizon that are going to add to that story.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
Our next question comes from Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Alex.
José you haven't talked too much about Mexico yet.
If you could sort of update us on your interest in pursuing opportunities down in Mexico and/or projects that are associated with Mexican customers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean it's all part of our Oil and Gas business.
It's part of the reason why we're so bullish.
I think I fully expect to win a decent-sized project this year and I think we're going to build a really nice business both that supports Mexico and the U.S.
and also in-country in Mexico a lot of activity.
Obviously there's some turmoil down there as well but it's actually creating some opportunities.
And nothing has really changed from our perspective there and we're hoping to get to the point where we can actually talk about specific projects in the near future.
And then secondly up in Canada I know you mentioned your revenue expectations for Canada but can you quantify what – how much revenue you think you're going to be generated from Canada? Kind of break that down between the different sort of service types across Oil and Gas? And any other further thoughts you have on Canada? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean for us today it's all Oil and Gas.
We did about $550 million in 2015.
We said we expected to be down probably a little bit more than 30% in 2016.
It's one of the drags on Q1.
We did about $170 million in Canada in the first quarter of 2015.
That number is probably going to be closer to about – I don't know I'd guess $75 million in the first quarter of 2016 so it's a big drag on our first quarter revenues.
There's some actually some really good and interesting opportunities there.
It's just it's a market that I think has been highly driven by commodity prices.
It's been highly impacted.
We've got to be cognizant of that.
I think we've right-sized for it.
I think we've got a great reputation up there and as I said earlier I think when it comes back it's going to be very strong and I think we're going to be in a much better competitive position than we are today so we're going to be patient.
Very helpful.
Good luck to your hurricanes in March.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Alex.
We'll go next to Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
A couple follow-ups here mostly on the Oil and Gas side.
First of all you talked about I guess a $1.5 billion you were bidding last quarter; you brought a $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter.
Are those two numbers aligned and/or did you add stuff you weren't expecting? Is there more stuff you were previously looking at that's still yet to come? If you can just give us a little bit more color on that particularly as it related to work for 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
So for 2016 I'd say the majority of what we have in backlog is to be completed in 2016.
So there are some things that we're still hoping for and expecting in 2016 but quite frankly it's quite limited at this point.
We're in really good shape relative to 2016.
Relative to the comments that we made last quarter there are a number of projects that we were probably talking about at that time that we're hoping will come soon.
So I think that the number has significantly grown from that conversation and I think based on what we're seeing and I think based on our commentary today I do expect it to be a much larger number than what we were alluding to last quarter and I think we'll be able to demonstrate that in the coming quarters.
Got it.
And then the other thing we understand is a lot of the pipeline work to be picked up and a lot of that you expect to pick up is kind of with one family of companies and you've already shown a willingness to accept a lot of customer concentration on the Communication side.
I'm just wondering is this something strategic you're targeting? Is this something we should think of as a risk factor? If you can just maybe walk us through a little bit because I anticipate that in 2016 you're going to have another very major customer that could be across their family I don't know 25% 30% of your revenue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So first thing I'd say is we want to align ourselves; a) with the right customers where we have really good relationships and where the relationships actually matter and make a big difference so that's important.
More importantly we want to align ourselves with what we think are the right projects almost more than customers because there are projects that are going to have a much higher likelihood of success right and of their ability to go forward.
So we're really trying to work hard at understanding what the opportunities out there.
I can tell you that when we talk about the opportunities that we're seeing in the industry they're broad-based; they're not with single customers.
We're talking to multiple customers about very large opportunities.
So we feel good about our ability to diversify our work across customers but we're also not afraid to make big bets with particular customers especially when again when the relationship is strong.
As I think about more of our future commentary I think you're going to see diversified awards.
I think it's not all with one customer but obviously to the extent that any single customer wants to give us large deployment opportunities on good projects we're going to take it.
So we don't really view that as a negative all right.
We're seeing in the pipeline world a lot more project financing as it associates with particular projects.
I think that really secures your position from a payment perspective relative to a project.
And look at the end of the day the guys that are building these things are fairly big – are very large companies many of which while they're undergoing some difficulty today are in a great long-term position.
So we're really not worried about that.
Got it.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Dan.
We'll go next to Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Noelle.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question kind of ties into what you were just speaking about with Dan but I think one of the challenges for investors right now is that they're seeing this dichotomy where you Quanta others are expressing this very bullish outlook on the mainline pipeline market and then we're seeing these challenges and changes with how MLPs are accessing capital.
So can you just speak to that? Is your confidence a function of the company's high-grading backlog? And you think your work will be on top? Can you just help us understand how you're looking at that dynamic? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well sure.
I think again we're cognizant of the issues in the industry and we're tracking it and we're looking at project-specific work.
And what's specifically happening to those projects as we make commitments.
I think one of the best things that happened to us over the last year is our own involvement in owning a pipeline right? So today we're a partner in a pipeline.
We've learned a lot from that experience.
We've learned a lot about what it takes to actually build a pipeline from scratch all of the stuff that goes that historically we haven't been a part of and more importantly the financing around it.
So the project that we've got is a fully-financed project.
We understand exactly what that means and we understand the interest that exists around financing oil and gas projects.
By the way not just in the U.S.
but in other countries such as Mexico and Canada.
There's a ton of interest.
There's a ton of funds and people chasing those dollars.
I mean as an example recently we've seen KKR BlackRock First Reserve Sempra all make significant announcements and investments related to Mexico infrastructure funds specifically related to oil and gas.
So there's plenty of money available to ultimately secure and build these pipelines.
Now you're right; they're looking at different sources of capital.
So when a project is project-financed it doesn't make any difference to us right? If we can tie that project to financing it actually puts us in a pretty comfortable position knowing that the funds are going to be there for us to ultimately get paid.
And I think that's important.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Second question I was hoping you could just expand a little bit on what you're seeing in wireline and discuss your expectations in terms of growth in 2016 and 2017? And really when you think this market could peak and if you could comment a bit on your margin expectations as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think again we're very early in the cycle.
I don't think the market's going to peak for a number of years.
So it's a great market to be in today.
We're making our strides.
We're pretty excited about the level of activity that we've been able to secure and the growth that we expect to see.
Again it's a relatively small piece of our business but one that we've said here recently we expect it to be a much bigger part of our business in the future.
It's where our roots are from so we think we're good at it.
We're really starting to compete at a higher level than we have over the last few years.
So we're again as we think about guidance if you think about our Communications guidance we don't have an enormous amount of growth built in so the reality is that to the extent that we still have to start executing on these and hopefully we can beat some of that.
But our expectation is there's solid growth opportunity there.
It's going to be around for a long time and we're happy to play our part.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Noelle.
We'll go next to Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on for Vishal.
Could you walk through your revenue expectations for gathering versus mainlines in oil and gas in 2016? And how much of your expected revenue is already in backlog? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So as it relates to gathering gathering's been a relatively small component of our business.
It's probably been $100 million or less over the last couple of years.
I wouldn't expect it to be any different in 2016.
So it's a small part of what we do.
We've got a decent amount of backlog in that business today so quite frankly I don't think we need to stretch much to get to the numbers that we're expecting there.
It is down from historical levels and one where we don't think it's coming back in 2016.
I'm not sure if the question related to our overall oil and gas business but at this point to hit what we have in guidance we pretty much have what we need in backlog.
It's a matter of executing and getting the opportunity to execute on that in 2016.
With that said we do expect further awards for work to begin in 2016.
So again hopefully if all goes our way we'll have an opportunity to do a little bit better.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just to follow up what are your margin expectations in oil and gas ? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I think I lost you there at the end but I think your questions were about oil and gas margins.
So look we're expecting margins to be up year-over-year.
Again for all of the reasons we've talked about and all of the uncertainty that exists we haven't made very large assumptions in margin improvement.
Actually we've got a very modest margin gain over 2015.
We've talked about over the years historically we had some good years and quarters where we exceeded I think in 2013 we exceeded over 13% for the year and we had particular quarters where we did a lot better than that.
There's no reason to believe as this work gets going that we can't achieve that again but it's definitely not what's built into our guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Adam.
José I wanted to ask you about 5G because your customers are talking about it.
You mentioned it in the press release.
I mean what is it in terms of infrastructure? And when could it be a material driver for your business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think it's similar to 4G there's going to be a lot of – I think the difference now is there's lots of different deployment opportunities but I think we're going to see a lot of equipment related to 5G and I think we're going to see a very similar type of upgrade cycle over the next few years in terms of what's on towers and what's on – whether they're towers or small cells or whatever they are I think you're going to have different equipment that's going to be deployed.
And that's great for our business; I think it's still very early.
They're obviously testing it so we don't have any rollout plans yet but it's just another – I think it just adds to the fact that we're nowhere near the end of the cycle.
The business is going to continue to evolve and grow and it's going to create tons of opportunities for companies like ours for a long period of time and we're happy to be in the industry.
We're happy to have the competitive position that we have.
We think today we're the largest in the nation.
So we'll benefit from it.
We're looking forward to it in the meantime there's still a lot of other work to get done before that happens and hopefully it all starts I guess falling one on top of the other.
But we're pretty excited about it.
Okay.
And I guess I won't congratulate you on the year but I will congratulate you on the cash flow and the kind of year-end balance sheet.
And I'm just curious I mean if you were to do M&amp;A where would you buy? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey look at this point we've got a lot of opportunities; we've got a lot of organic opportunities.
We feel that our stock is pretty depressed.
We're also cognizant of the fact that some of these opportunities are going to require working capital so we've got some things to work through in our own minds in terms of what we do.
I think from an M&amp;A perspective we're going to be very opportunistic.
If the right opportunity came along and made a ton of sense I think we would consider it but I don't think it's something that's really driving us right now.
We haven't really done much in the last year.
I don't think you should suspect or expect us to do really a lot in 2016 other than again if something very opportunistic came about.
I think if we were going to deploy capital in that manner today quite frankly we don't think there's a better investment than our stock.
We bought over 5 million shares at roughly $19 earlier in the year.
So obviously if we thought it was a good investment then I think we've got much better visibility today than we did back when we bought those shares so we'll see.
Okay.
Thanks José.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Adam.
And we'll take our final question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just one follow-up.
José you mentioned on Dakota Express (sic) [Access] you've got six spreads.
What's your capacity now as we go out into 2017? Do you have to significantly ramp up capital spending? I know we don't want to get too far ahead of us and I appreciate George's comments on plans for this year but can you comment on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
So now I mean I think we're in a position to again to execute on the work that we've got.
Again the anticipation is that most of that work will be done in 2016; again not necessarily what we may have in guidance but I think there's a chance that that work is to be executed in 2016.
Again if it is we're obviously in really good shape relative to backlog and where we need to be but look we've grown a lot we've added capacity over the years.
We're in a great place to take advantage of the opportunities that the markets afford us and we're fully capable of doing that and again that's just one job so we're obviously fully capable of doing a lot more than that as well.
But what is your spread capacity now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know we don't...
Or what do you expect it to be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's a tough metric because so much work isn't really done in spread capacity right? There's so much work that's multiple spreads that are breaking up or you can break up one spread and do different things on them.
On the mainline side obviously six spreads is a lot of work.
We've got capacity to do a little bit more than that.
But we don't – if the opportunities are there we think we have the right personnel and leadership in place that we'll be able to execute on it.
Okay.
Without significant more capital spending? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Without a significant ramp in capital spending.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
And I'd now like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Mas for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Now I'd just like to thank everybody for participating today and their interest in MasTec.
Again I want to thank the men and women in MasTec for their dedication and hard work and more importantly their dedication to safety in 2015 and we look forward to updating everybody on our first quarter call in a couple of months.
Thank you.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.